ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42804	We are now moving to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. First in front of the Homeland Movement is Mrs. Rose of the Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42805	Thank you, my dear. So, by selling Croatian silver, they acknowledge that they do not care until the fate of the Croatian village. By the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to sell the Podravka, they finally acknowledge that agriculture is not of interest to them. The rulings explain that it is a commitment from the NPOO for the period from 2021 to 2026 in the chapter on improving state property management. The professional public has rightly wondered for a long time why the components contained in the NPOO were only presented in the debate in the Assembly. It was unclear how the government did not find it appropriate to include stakeholders and key factors in the NPOO process. This raised the public's suspicion that far-reaching issues are being addressed in the narrow circle of the chosen or privileged and behind closed doors. After the announced decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the sale of Podravka, it slowly became clear to us why the Government of the Republic of Croatia had wings of the NPOO since the public debate and, in the debate at the plenary session, referred only a short and summary version of the plan. With the sale of Podravka shares as a company that could certainly help the recovery of fallen agricultural production, a large number of MPs, of course opposition because 76 representatives of the ruling majority obviously do not care about such decisions, would disagree. Such a proposal would trigger a heated debate and conflict with the ruling. Although 6.3 billion grants have been allocated to Croatia as part of the recovery and resistance mechanism, the money will still not come to the Croatian village. And now we understand that through the recovery and resilience plan and its content that the creators of a handful of people without empathy towards the Croatian village, additional damage will be done. What is completely invisible and unclear in the existing NPOO proposal is a qualitative explanation of the way in which measures from the recovery plan and resilience should contribute to the green transition, including biodiversity or the resolution of the challenges resulting from this, and whether at least 37% of the total funds allocated under the recovery plan and resilience plan are wastes, as should be the basis for all commitments. The conclusion is that the draft National Resistance and Recovery Plan was to be presented to the public at least a month before the document came to the plenary session in the Assembly, and key factors were to be included in the process of drawing up the plan. Although it is significant grants which will be made available to agriculture, it argues that those sectors that face structural problems and not the regulated market, and yet the most endangered production of meat and milk will not come to us. And for the end of the question, couldn't the percentage of the total resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan be slightly higher, given the importance of agriculture and the production of healthy and local food? In addition, we could show our readiness to achieve the green transition, social and territorial cohesion, health and economic, social and institutional resilience, so all of those objectives Europe is seeking from us. I must add to everything the concerns about the compromised leader who was brought to Podravka, and now with a clear goal. Remember the Borg affair and the support led by Prime Minister and his favorite, Mrs. Marin Dalic, to sell Agrokor to foreign capital groups. Croatia led by those who obviously did not want to leave Croatia slowly without its family heritage and its silver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42806	Thank you. Mr Silvano Hrelja will be the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42893	Thank you. Your Honor, on the basis of a recommendation from the attorney general and on our discussion today, I am sending in the procedure a bill prohibiting the Institute of Life Support Contracts. It makes him worthless. By means of a life support contract, the maintenance provider undertakes to maintain the recipient until his death and the recipient undertakes to transfer all or part of his assets to him for life. An emphasis and a difference in the life support contract because in the words "for life". The recipient by signing a life-support contract shall prescribe his assets to the maintenance provider who can immediately dispose of that property as he wishes, can sell it, burden the mortgage and even move out the dependent person who owned it until the signature of the contract. After the signing of the life support contract, the abstention has no right to property and overnight can be left without maintenance and without real estate. The long-term maintenance treaty allows such availability only with the occurrence of the circumstances of death or when the abstentioned dies. In 2018, the Ombudsman's office conducted a survey on the information of older people on its rights and potential risks of making a life- and life-restraint contract. On a sample of 500 people over 65 years of age, the answers reveal that 71% of respondents have heard of the possibility of a lifetime contract and 76% of life insurance, maintenance, pardon, while 72% do not differ between these two contracts. Of the subjects who heard about the contracts, 1/4 are not sufficiently informed about the risks of their signing. In order to prohibit the conclusion of a contract with social service providers, which was prescribed at the recommendation of the Advocate General's Office, 85% of respondents were not aware. Such high percentages of warnings are also evidence that parties signing those contracts are not in an equal position and that this is only one way of exploiting the weaker information of older people. Despite the fact that people of advanced age, sick, weakly mobile, and powerless always appear as maintenance recipients, society often leaves them to the mercy and mercy of people who in such difficult situations see an opportunity for a quick and easy profit, which is not viewed as a form of humanity but exclusively as a business. The Mandatory Relations Act provides for the basics of mandatory relations and contractual and non-contractual obligations. Participants in these mandatory relations must be equal and mandatory relations cannot regulate the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the morals of society. In theory, it was warned and the practice proved that in the event of a life support contract, participants are not equal, motives are not moral, and the consequences are not socially acceptable. We all know that this is a problem, lower articles, actors are mostly respected members of the community, but everything is only on warnings and moaning. Unfortunately, there hasn't been a bill like this since 2009, the problem is a lot of, timing important, I'm mostly alone, but I don't give up. This should solve and protect people from themselves, one from naiveness, and the other from greed. I don't expect association support because they think it all starts with the National Council, but This should be introduced to reduce the growing poverty of former workers, the creator of the value of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42894	Thank you very much. Thank you, too. Mrs. Rada Boric will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42921	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of 2020, the parliamentary majority of this assembly of parliament adopted the addition of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which stipulates that cities are obliged to quote, publicly publish information on the spending of budgets on their websites so that this information is easily available and searched. The publication of such information, according to the same law, shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the planning, production, adoption and implementation of the budget and the instructions and other acts of the Ministry of Finance. According to yesterday's insight into the Ministry of Finance's website, as well as in the e-consultation system, I have found that there is still no aspect of any changes to the law that regulates public disclosure of information on the spending of municipality, cities and counties, and no instructions from other acts of the ministries responsible for financing on this issue. When in the campaign for local elections, many promised the transparency of urban budgets and insight into each kuna, the new left has checked whether the cities are really and willing to do so. Here's the score. 6 months after we sent and requested bank accounts in all 128 cities in 2019, 71 cities met our request for access to the requested information, a small part of the cities responded to our request within 30 days in a timely, efficient and legal manner. Of course, with the help of the Information Commissioner, we believe that other cities will also provide us with documents on public expenditures because we expect that, since the processes are still ongoing, users will receive traffic information in their cities. Meanwhile, citizens of Croatian cities have also elected new city representatives and new councilors, but it is still unclear whether there are sanctions for not publishing information on spending budgets on web sites, so that this information is really easily available and searched. However, it is better that the information must finally be published on the web pages than that it must be printed or delivered to the law of the applicant. And here we come to an unusual request from the city of Zadar which asked the new left as a user information to pay, listen, almost 300,000 kuna, namely 288.000 kuna for information that we have received from everyone else for free. Namely, let the public judge whether the true explanation of the city of Zadar is that it receives 1,000 sheets of bank statements per day from banks, it will be a total of 360,000 sheets per year, so when we count to copy one leaf, etc., it would turn out that we would have a height of at least half of the hotel's altitude of the Pandora, for example. in Zagreb. The issue of transparency therefore obviously also has its breadth, but also the height, so we expect the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, as well as the Mayor of Zadar, from which we will probably hear how that users do not have the right to information they deserve and that there are no more elections of 128 cities to get answers from 71 cities, someone would say wow even 71 cities show on their websites how public money is spent. But it's not enough and there's no more talk that our budgets will be transparent if we're not able on the web page to show it in an easily accessible and searchable way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42922	Thank you. Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42998	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, I am pleased that, in the free performance of the position of several clubs, a report by the attorney general has been referred to, and so will I, since I believe that we missed something that is really crucial during the morning. Let us return for a moment to what is actually a public defender as an institution, as an independent institution, as an authorised Croatian Assembly. It is the first public dam against the institution's opposition to their freedoms and their rights. So when citizens have a dispute with each other, they hire a lawyer and solve their problems in courts. However, when citizens have a problem with the system they address the body, they address an institution such as the Ombudsman and bring their complaints and their problems to him. In these problems, the attorney general has the task of identifying where the failures in the country's design are, where the failures in the content of the laws themselves are and where the failures in their implementation, and these failures are negatively reflected not only on the quality of life but are literally intruding into the fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms of our citizens. What is this problem that we missed today, about him being manifest, where we all failed together as an opposition? This is the fact that today we are discussing a report for 2018, 2019 and 2020. What does that report say? In these reports, there is actually criticism, but the criticism given by individual institutions, the criticism given by the media, the criticism brought by citizens themselves to the content of the rule of law under HDZ's authority. What do citizens actually complain about when they speak to the occupier? They're complaining about state bodies. So whose state bodies were they in 2018, 2019, 2020? HDZ. What else are the citizens complaining about? To local and regional self-government units. So whose counties, cities and municipalities were in a significant number in 2018, 2019 and 2020? HDZ. Whose state bodies were or other bodies with public authority? HDZ. So these reports actually state the state of rule of law under HDZ over the past three years. And none of us today during the morning asked for a break, he didn't protest, he didn't object, he didn't criticise the fact that the HDZ government has been refusing to discuss how they humiliated them, violated the rule of law for the past three years. That's where we failed as an opposition. What did we do in replicas? We were dealing with what was called a female attorney, which is her family ties, whether it was nepotism, whether its policy, the policy of continuity, and why we were not dealing with the question of why now after 3 years we are talking about what needs to be changed in the system to protect the fundamental rights of the Constitution and the law, which we need to change in laws, why citizens' trust in institutions is becoming less and less, why there is no rule of law, why we have a dysfunctional judiciary, why there is no social security. It is tragic that these reports say that in 2018 a trend has already been launched in which the Croatian Parliament and Government, no, and other state bodies, of course under HDZ, do not meet more than 1/5 of the recommendations, 1/5. It's tragic, and it's actually this fact that it's pure proof that such a government, a government that doesn't allow institutional criticism of its actions, is actually a real non-national government. And let us remember that not so much of the time of those tentacle protests, 555 days took place a protest that pointed to the supposed non-human government at the time. What made this government unnatural then, and now what is it like? But no tents, no protests. For there is no protest from those who had already been instrumentalized, and it was obviously not their goal to indicate that someone’s rights were being violated, but their goal was in an inappropriate way to destroy one authority to bring another. But why did the representatives of these same citizens and people not protest the fact that, as a matter of first delay, we are discussing these reports, as secondly we are discussing together. So, not individually for each of these reports, but together, so that as little concrete, reasoned things can be heard in order to As little injustice as possible has been given the opportunity to correct or spot. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u42999	Thank you, too. And finally Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, who will present the views of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, I hope this different tone from before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u43072	Sugar at the end of the vice president's assembly. My intonation hasn't been elevated before, it's just like it is now and it's gonna stay and it's gonna stay, it's my free speech. but here I will join my colleague Bauku immediately in his intention to be on the parent board and, if necessary, at the plenary session of the debate, discuss the behaviour of the chairman of the Croatian Parliament. [[/Intruder: Let's move on.]] I too had a situation that Croatian Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic distanced me from this place and gave me 3 warnings within 5 seconds and made it impossible for me to speak. So that's what shouldn't happen. So it's the usurp of the president's powers, but here you are not. Let's move on, so today I have a bit of arousal of ghosts here in the Croatian Parliament after our esteemed attorney said that she is normally one, and that she is normally the other, or that she is one of the world's world-renowned, clearly liberal, given that she is still from the SDP authority confirmed by HDZ, and that I am also proud of that conservative, solid, if you will and right-wing sovereign worldview. And then I said that some things aren't normal, they're not natural. Some things, some behavior that doesn't make life impossible, can't make life. And it's not normal, it's wrong, it's wrong. However, if someone didn't think that I had something against any person, if any member of any minority, such as homosexuals or lesbians, today needs the blood of 0+, I'm here, I'm going to give my half liter because I'm a voluntary blood donor. If someone is life-threatening and needs my kidney, I have two healthy kidneys, and here I am available, and here I am available, and all people are equally valuable, but every act is not equally valuable, every behavior is not equally valuable. And some people deal with what they are one way or the other. And everyone lives in their own four walls. And it's not easy for him. But if someone promotes some behavior and imposes it as of course, and it's not, of course, not normal, that's where the problem comes from. Everyone in their four walls has the right to do what they want and let them do, a wide field, but some behavior imposes like a mainstream and say it's okay, that's what I'm up against and I'm gonna fight. As I must note from this place, colleague Hajdukovic proudly hung the flag of rainbow colors on his assembly bench. I'm just wondering if we can all report our flags and bring them here to the assembly and do it the way we want to and from this place and invite you, Vice President of the Parliament, to remove it, because tomorrow I'll come with my flag and maybe it'll be a little bigger, what are the dimensions of these flags that we can bring to this House, so I have nothing against rainbows because it's a biblical symbol, but some group has usurped them because they're beautiful colors, the Bible colors are beautiful colors. So, I'll do it again and I'll never step back from it. For all those who try to relatify certain things, every man is equally valuable and I will never say from this place that every act is equally valuable and that and the one who does that act, is aware in his inner self and do not impose your ideology, regardless of what you wear at the end of that cross, that your commitment, do not impose your attitudes on society no matter how guilty they are, or as much as you think you are right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u43073	Now, Mr. Zekanovic, You can, you can go there, yeah. [[Intruder Zekanovic: I would like to ask the service...]] Look, no one here represents masterstream behavior or anyone has said that everyone has to be who they are or what they think they should be. No one did, but only everyone here has to be what you said at the end and you, only you said between four walls, right? That they must be free to express their youth, their nature. Of course I don't think it has to be between four walls, but I don't have the right word from this pay phone, I think everyone has the right point anywhere and about the question of normality, now you've been more specific about it, and I have to tell you that free speech is so I can't tell you anything but who the psychologist is I'm going to tell you, no, and you're a geographer, right, is that, or geologist, I don't know what, that the question of normality is one question that we can't talk about here. I'm gonna stop here, it's free speech, you're right whatever you think, I was attacked today because I gave you a word of what you think, I'd say very nicely, it would be very nice not to say something normal or abnormal but to say "I mean it like this," not "it's like this" because biology and nature is like this, but "I mean it like this," it's civilization. Civilization is when someone says "it's an opinion", and the other has the right to have a second opinion. Now I've had a bit of a blow job because I've been yours today, so let's not say Jesus Christ on the cross, because that would be excessive, but I've been a lot of trouble to let you say certain things, because I've been tolerant, but please say from now on, "I think," it's so civilized and so beautiful. Mr Arsen Bauk will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u43160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Ombudsman's report divided the ruling majority and divided the opposition. Part of the ruling majority would accept the report, and part of the ruling majority would take note of it, part of the opposition would accept the report, and part of the opposition would refuse to even take note of it. So we see how much of the topic we discussed, and where I was taken away from it, so I couldn't reach the point of view. I hope this will be brought to your attention to the attorney general. Not only that, the committees in the House are divided, the parent board, the Constitution Committee in one way or another would take note of the report, and the Human Rights Committee would accept it. That's what I wanted to say not to be interrupted by the vice president. This topic is called free speech, I will speak freely until the vice president freely interrupts me if there are reasons for it, and the reasons are mentioned in the Rules of Procedure, they are when you insult other MPs, when you insult gender, sex and other minorities, national groups, etc. There was a scene in "Little Myst" when the chief brought in a famous local revolutionist and told him that if you insulted the king, I would forgive it, but that you went to insult me. So I got a warning by taking away the word, not in the fall insulting the vice president, but criticizing exactly one of his actions. That's why I had to ask my colleague Bernardic to give me the free word to say now what I meant. Not only that, the problem is that I know what views on LGBT's rights have on the LGBT's vice-president, and yet he did not respond to Mr Zekanovic's exposure, but he gave me and Hajdukovic three warnings. That's how you look at it if Hrvoje didn't get a warning, and me and Domagoj are right, then he's right, and we're gonna propose abnormal. And it is precisely the problem of these countries that people in positions that have attitudes that are "right" do not react when they need to. Maybe it was Mr. Vice President once during our government. Yeah, I'm sorry. [[Don't argue with me.]] Some will say that it may have been during our government as some have told me that I (a) have been known to listen to my boss and (b) that I am a conformist. One of my former bosses said otherwise we'd have a daughter to the end, let some recognize it and do it. As for conformism, some are members of two clubs, one from the ruling majority, for example. National minorities, others from the opposition, for example IDS. Who is their boss and then who are they listening to, what policy are they representing, and who are they to tell others that they are conformists? Therefore, as you can see, tolerance is still at its height because I am now not interrupted even though I told the same person everything she deserved and what had to be said and then. Of course, I was hoping I'd get a chance to finish this exhibit by the end. The way in which the presidents of the club are criticised is taken from the club's representatives at the beginning of the hearing, deserves a more careful review, and we will look for a debate at the Assembly Presidency, on the parent committee, and if necessary in the form of a request for the recall of one of the vice-presidents and at the plenary session, then we apply the Rules of Procedure as it writes. For a speech that is hateful of gender, sex, and other minorities, let us take away the word for religious minorities, but not for criticism of political conduct in a specific attitude. Not only was my word taken away, but the president's office was used to argue with me without me being able to answer. We won't agree to colleagues from the parliamentary majority, we'll have a daughter until the end of it, there's no problem. We'll find a form in which we can do it, but Mr. Vice President, a little more tolerance doesn't... It'd be bad. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And thank you for not taking my word for it, I guess that coffee is still worth it. I prefer Turkish, but I accept it here and espresso. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u43161	No, for coffee, the problem is I'm gonna have to pay for it, but it doesn't matter. And what do I do when you say minority representatives are fifth column, what do I say? That you're a francist? Yeah, because they said it, they said it. Let's move on, let's move on. And for coffee we'll make a deal, first you pay for it, then we'll drink it. Mr. Marko Pavić will be the position of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u43255	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear vice president of the assembly. On behalf of the HDZ Club today, I would like to make a little more detailed on the subject of the "Social Summit in Port" which was in the government today. Little for the sake of the campaign, the neglected topic where the prime ministers of the member states met in Portugal on 7 and 8 May and just came forward and supported the further strengthening and implementation of the European pillar of social rights. The prime minister there, together with Minister Aladrovic, also praised the EUR 24.5 billion we have in the next 10 years, but also in the way we use all these funds. Croatia has stood behind its workers, behind its entrepreneurs, and so far we have invested in a covid measure of 10.5 billion kuna to protect 687,000 jobs and also 460 million kunas have been provided for a covid of allowances for over 650,000 pensioners. The social summit in Port comes several years after the first "Social Summit in Gothenburg" at which I also personally attended with the prime minister at the time as labour minister where the European Pillar of Social Rights was adopted. The European Pillar of Social Rights defines 20 principles for the protection of EU citizens' social rights, of equal access to the labour market, whether through active employment measures, active employment support in which, as the prime minister said, we gave more than 10 billion kuna only last year, the issue of pay adequateness, the adequateness of pensions, social dialogue, the balance between private and business life adopted by the directive. And what I am particularly proud of is that, more than a month ago, the European Commission presented a guarantee for children and also a Strategy for the Protection of the Rights of the Child. This guarantee at EU level, and thanks in particular to the Croatian Director for Social Affairs at the European Commission Ivaković Knezevic, who participated in the development of this document, Europe, or the EU, guarantees every child a free access: early and preschool education and education, education and school activities, at least one healthy meal in school day and health care. It was also a pleasure, and I sent you all and emailed that one of the pilot projects for child guarantee is being implemented by UNICEF in Croatia and all of you on the same suspicion in Port, I sent you some details about this project, the project is being implemented in partnership with the Međimurje County, and it concerns the establishment of social services centres for children, families and community. The project will also outline recommendations for further implementation of guarantees for children in Croatia, and in particular, the Ministry of Labour, Pensions and Social Policy, which implements children's kindergartens and many programmes, my predecessors also pointed out in free speeches, within which we have funds for several hundred schools and in VFO we continue from the rural development programme financing of kindergartens. Therefore, the EU, and headed by our Vice-President Dubravko Shuic, has put forward one such important strategy, which is one of these 20 principles, we look forward to the new directives on the other principles which Croatia will support all the way and which will then be reflected in the financing for the future financial period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u43256	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Kujundzic in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u43355	Thank you, Mr. Radin. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Court of Justice’s Court of Justice’s 2018 report states that citizens as a reason for eviction, which is thought to be a young population between 20 and 39 years of age, are the reasons for disorganization and poor governance, corruption rates, employment of similar party people, a sense of hopelessness and imperceptibility. The Office of State Administration, which performs administrative and other professional tasks in administrative areas, both economics and social activities, and then also general administrative property affairs, according to the report, the largest number of complaints arrived at the address of the Office of State Administration. Inequality of the report states in the regional development and availability of services in rural and island areas in relation to urban environments, inaccessibility and inequity of health services. The risk of poverty in Croatia is 20%, and for the elderly, the percentage is slightly higher, so it goes to 28.6%. Of course, the data for singles whose risk to poverty is 47.8%. Weakness, the report also states in the report is the lack of quick, objective, independent investigations. A serious problem is also dissatisfaction with the quality of judicial decisions and a high degree of mistrust in the judiciary itself, making it clear that it is actually a visible fact of one form of sprint between the executive and the judicial authority. The budgetary resources that Croatia allocates for free legal aid are insufficient and the funds are far below the EU average. Irregularities in employment related to non-proliferation, trade in influence and abuse of powers and positions, illegal and unpaid overtime, irregularity in payouts, and not to list all of what the report states in 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I quote one key sentence in the report itself, and I quote: "Constituent problems are the same for years, difficult property situation of citizens, insufficient level of trust in institutions, lack of access to public services, inaccessibility of health services" etc., etc. A visible one continuity does not remove one form of inadequacy and everything that citizens like that write. By ruling to see one different Croatia, Croatia benefits, Croatia's convenience, Croatia's rich standard, availability of services, easy employment, such Croatia sees because all of this is living, all of this has and all of this is available to them. The real picture of Croatia is probably the way the citizens see it, and the report is more than clear. There is no area almost not listed in the report, there is not at least a centimeter of a system to which citizens are not called. If we were politicians who cared about Croatia, the people, everyone in this House from all the institutions and institutions of this country, you know what we should do? Stay back because Croatia doesn't deserve us. With every hand that we have supported the bad legal solutions, with our silence and enjoyment of the benefits and not to list more than clear indicators of how much we care about Croatia, how much we care about the people and how much we care about the future in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47980	Good day to everyone, good day to Mrs. Attorney General, respected MPs and MPs before we move to today's debate, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system proposed on the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a joint discussion on the following three points: Report by the Advocate General for 2018, Report by the Advocate General for 2019 and the Report of the Advocate General for 2020 So it was on the parent board, on the parent committees. Do you agree with this proposal? Any objections? There isn't. Since there are no objections to these points, we will conduct a united debate. The applicant shall be the Advocate General under Article 16. Law on the Advocate General, Article 12. Law on the prevention of discrimination, Article 9. Law on a national preventive mechanism to prevent torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishment, Article 215. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 39 The Rules of Procedure of the Advocate General or of the Advocate General. The debate was conducted by the following Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, on Health and Social Policy and on Justice. The government delivered an opinion and you have that opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Attorney General Tena Shimonović Einwalter, please. Hello, there you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47981	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable MPs and MPs, I warmly welcome you before today's debate that I see as an opportunity to discuss together the problems facing citizens across our country in the field of human rights and discrimination, but we also move on. Let us discuss possible ways in which these problems can at least be tempered if not completely bridged, and what is the meaning of these reports and what are many of these recommendations for. This is the first time I've been standing in front of this phone booth as an attorney general for what you gave me your trust two months ago. It is also the first time that the assembly discusses as many as 4 reports of this institution in the same day, but I hope that this will not be an obstacle to a contentious and reasoned debate. I also believe that the thematically detailed and specific debate will be at the end of the day when a special report on the right to a healthy life and climate change that I am also looking forward to and I expect that you will give it additional strength and ultimately use it in your further work. In this opening speech, I will first review some basic information on human rights, then on how to produce these reports, and then I will talk about the problems that citizens warn in complaints about through some principled trends, given that it is three reports, in three years. Still apostrophealing some areas, time is short, but let it be pointed. And I will focus in particular on 2020, among other things, because the 2020 report is the latest, but also because it refers to the year that changed the lives of all citizens of this country in terms of the ongoing Covid-19 disease epidemic, but also to the consequences of the Zagreb earthquake. I also note that since the Sisak-Moslavina County earthquake took place at the end of the year, we will discuss its impact on human rights in the 2021 report. Finally, I will say a few words about the framework of the work and the function of this institution and the report before you and what I think is particularly important in the reports contained in the recommendations. First of all, I would like to remind you why it is important to discuss the state of human rights, which is the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution and the EU. Human rights are the common fluid of humanity. One system of values converted into equal rights for all. They're innate to us all, they're universal, they're worth everything and they should be inalienable to us. Right to health care, right to work, right to home, access to justice, equality before courts and other bodies with public authority, freedom of opinion and expression of thought, the right to freedom from discrimination and many others. Human rights guarantee that the interests and well-being of citizens will always be priorities and the thought of leadership of all those who are in any way in positions of power. First of all, decision-makers, politicians as law makers, budgets, but also social climates. And all who provide public services to doctors, social workers and others, all whose actions and decisions have a significant impact on citizens, civil servants, police officers, employers, society as a whole. Respect and advocating equality and fighting discrimination means that we are working on equal opportunities for a decent life and fulfilling our own potential and that its or its chances of success should not be affected by or not by different circumstances which have no impact, health status, property, belonging to a minority, and we know that many minorities recognise the Croatian legal system were through the constitution, international documents, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination and others. In other words, human rights and equality are the basis for building strong, successful and just societies, which unfortunately reminded us quite clearly of the crises we are dealing with, the epidemic of Covid-19 disease, the consequences of the earthquake, which we will certainly talk about today. Given the demographic state of our country and the trend of eviction, it is worth reminding that human rights and equality have one of the key impacts on the social climate. The weaker they are protected the stronger sense of injustice among citizens, mistrust in institutions, the belief that you have no chance of success if you stay here, which is already enough young people have told us, which in complaints, which by your departure. I'm moving on to making a report. Namely, the annual reports that we are discussing today describe the state of human rights in more than 60 subjects and subjects from all areas of life from the authority of the attorney general, the judiciary, the work and work relations in the private and public services and the state service, the rights of the unemployed, the rights in the social care system, health and health care including through environmental protection, energy poverty, enforcement, free legal assistance, housing, access to water, status rights, pension insurance, the situation of older people, including the situation in homes for older people and related to violence against them, the problems of Croatian defenders, young people including young people from alternative care, media freedoms, hate speech, hate crimes, national minorities, construction, property legal relations, are a lot of issues in these reports. They contain everything prescribed under our laws, laws which determine the competences of this institution, according to the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism, and, from 2019 and the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. All 3 reports therefore contain an analysis and assessment of the state of human rights and freedom in Croatia, recommendations to remove systemic difficulties in achieving human rights and equality of citizens and to assess to the extent that the competent authorities have met earlier recommendations. As far as the methodology is concerned, it is framed to be inclusive, to ensure a partial pluralistic comprehensive process. The basis for preparing the report is citizens' complaints. And that's what makes this institution different and this report different from some other reports. These are the examination procedures initiated either on the basis of complaints or on their own initiative. And that, in fact, along with other items launched on general initiatives involves working on about 10,500 items during this 3.g. Then it's based on data we've been looking at hundreds of addresses. Each year, this figure crosses over 600 addresses and includes competent authorities and we write to almost all ministries, numerous agencies, institutions and other institutions, counties, cities, municipalities, civil society organisations from all parts of the country, churches and religious organisations, universities, employers and many others. The report also lists relevant research and data from EU institutions, the Council of Europe and the UN. And as such, they actually make up a collection of information based on which we then draw conclusions and what is most important, we make recommendations. Now I'm going to go to a shorter picture of some of the problems these reports indicate, in which the most common areas in which citizens were most complaining are the same or very similar, in fact, only their schedule changes. Thus, in 2020 and 2019, we were most complained about the area of health, the most numerous complaints about discrimination in different areas of life in 2018. Somewhere at the top of the statistics there are always working and official relations, the judiciary, complaints of persons deprived of liberty, not necessarily every year in that order. Since it is really impossible in a short time to show all the problems and all the areas in 3 reports for 3 years, I will only make some major points. On the one hand, this is a problem of insufficient and unequal availability of health services, social services, there are problems in accessing justice, problems in accessing different public services because in many cases they are not what they should be, in good time available to all who need them. The difference is whether you live in a big city or in a 10-mile radius from the nearest next place. The complaints tell us that the differences in this availability make up the property or age of citizens or health conditions, which means that further efforts need to be made to create conditions in which citizens will indeed be equal to the law as the constitution and requires, including the availability of public services and during special circumstances such as the current epidemic of covid as the biggest public health challenge facing Croatia and the whole world. Then there is also a principle problem relating to many areas, non-transparentities and mistrust in institutions, often pointed to by citizens in complaints. This applies to both the judiciary and the work, employment, local units and many other areas. Then there is the problem of discrimination in different areas of life. The fight against it includes awareness of prejudices and stereotypes including through education and certainly refers to reducing the impatience that is present in public space, especially on social networks, but not exclusively there, including to members of the Serb and Roma minorities, migrants, often also to political insolences. Of course, freedom is meant to be guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution and international instruments, freedom of expression as well. However, it is important to know the limit between freedom of expression and hate speech. Of course, when we talk about discrimination, when we talk about hate speech, I cannot mention that hate speech can also lead to hate crimes. As far as complaints relating to discrimination are concerned, citizens are most often referred to because they feel that they are discriminated against in the field of labour and employment, and as regards discriminatory grounds, ethnicity, health and age are most often shown, and I am talking about discriminatory grounds from the primary jurisdiction of this institution without entering discriminatory grounds from the jurisdiction of the special defender. And finally, the problem is the non-recognition by citizens of the rights they have, including discrimination, but not only because the rights they have do not know or recognize, often they cannot complain, often they cannot be achieved and we see it in particular in social care and in health care and other systems. However, complaints from citizens, especially in 2020 and the circumstances in which we currently live, require that I specifically address the issue of the right to health care. I chose this because I think that if we need to learn any lessons about the future from this epidemic, it is about the importance of strong and citizens of available public health that will provide timely and quality health services and adequately appreciate the work of those who make this system and who have endured one of the greatest burdens of the epidemic, putting their time, knowledge and experience, but also health to the benefit of the entire society. In order to create such a strong public health care, it is important, among other things, to fill in the systematicised public places in health institutions, to update the public health service network, to bring in a new network of emergency medicine and to have concrete and effective measures affect the reduction of the waiting list. When we talk about justice, we continue to record a high degree of mistrust in the system. The dissatisfaction of citizens with court decisions, which comes out of the arraignment of the attorney general, but they write about it anyway. However, they also write about the longevity of proceedings, about media cases, or judicial cases they read about in the media, which cause them to feel unequal and perception that the system is not fair and often perception of corruption. Speaking of corruption, I would like to point out in particular the external reporting of irregularities, i.e. the protection of whistles, colloktimally speaking, which is one of the new competences of this Office and which is, in fact, directly involved in the fight against corruption in the Republic of Croatia. The work done so far, both by these institutions and by other stakeholders in this area, has shown that there is a significant space for improving the legal framework, which should in particular improve the internal reporting process, and it is also important to implement to a greater extent the education of confidential persons, but also all workers and trade union commissioners on what is actually the reporting of irregularities and what is the protection of applicants of irregularities. I am therefore pleased that we are on this very topic of improving the legal framework and we have an open dialogue with the Ministry of Justice and Administration and that we are part of a working group that is about to start working on it. We continue to closely monitor and improve and work to improve the situation of older people, regardless of whether they live alone, and among those who live alone, even everyone else is at risk of poverty. Does he live with his family, where we often see the situation that this family needs support to care for their elders, whether through labour rights, whether through the provision of the status of carers, or whether it is about older ones living in long-term institutional care, etc. to elderly homes, which came in special focus last year because they were just older at increased risk of the most severe consequences of coronary infection, while for those in their homes, the good part of the year of freedom of movement was limited. It must also not be forgotten by the perspective of young people who often show that they do not have the opportunity to achieve their full potential in complaints. I could remind you equally of the problems and recommendations from other areas, however, unfortunately we do not have for that time now, and in other words, the reports are ahead of you. In the future, we have some new topics, among them vaccinations, where we currently have a series of open objects, then the impact of social networks on human rights, given that they change the world and force it to question the relevance of the current legal frameworks in a number of areas, or, for example, the impact of artificial intelligence on human rights and equality, something that many think is the future or a distant future, and in fact is our present. I hope that we will be discussing the report for this year by the next year, because the smaller the time gap, the greater the chance that the recommendations will be implemented, as the figures show. Thus, according to the government's opinions on the report of the Ombudsman, which we are discussing today, was accepted and implemented between 20% and 27% of the recommendations, depending on the year. On the other hand, earlier discussions were more up-to-date, held in the same year as the Report and lectured, and that percentage was multiplely higher, about 65%, which is, for example, the percentage for the 2017 Report's recommendations. What is the figure, when we talk about implementing recommendations lower, there are fewer chances that there will be systematic changes that citizens in all parts of the country rightly expect. That health and social services will be available to them when they need them, that they will be more protected from discrimination, for example, work and employment and that they will feel equal to the law, ultimately protected by law. Finally, I want to point out something about the role of this institution. It is not today the same institution that was founded "the Christmas Constitution". Over the years, she was given new responsibilities, growing in every sense. More specifically, the Ombudsman institution has been acting as an Ombudsman since 1992, affecting good administration through a number of administrative areas. Then, we are also a national institution for the promotion and protection of status rights, and this mandate also gives us the task of promoting human rights, defending human rights based on international instruments that the Republic of Croatia has accepted. 2009 The Office has also become a central body for the prevention of discrimination, which means that it has expanded the tasks and powers of the institution and has made it possible to treat the private sector as well, and in 2012, the institution also becomes a national preventive mechanism for the prevention of torture, inhumane and humiliating treatment or punishment. A mandate aimed at protecting the rights of persons located in, for example, prisons, psychiatric institutions, centres for detection, police stations, etc. under which we have the authority to visit and report on the situation. Finally, in 2019, we received another extremely demanding mandate, this to protect applicants of irregularities, i.e. whistles, as a body responsible for external reporting. These five mandates, all these demanding and responsible tasks, I think they actually make the institution an ideal partner for you to work on citizens' well-being and I think that's our common goal. This institution should act as a bridge between state administration bodies, civil society organisations, parliament, courts, constitutional court, international organisations, citizens and in general all stakeholders involved in the protection of human rights. Work on complaints from citizens, be their voice, encourage cooperation and promote human rights. It was founded to protect human rights and the rule of law through constructive criticism of the work of state institutions. Over time, this has spread to the private sector as I have already pointed out, but in order to encourage changes and necessary improvements. I think the right place for this is where I am today, the debate in HS, after which ideally, those to whom the recommendations are addressed and implemented. That is why it is ideal to discuss reports in which recommendations are the subject because they are the most important and it would be ideal for them to be focused. If they don't, I think it's a missed opportunity. In doing so, the change that this institution recommends throughout the years of its work is not easy to achieve. However, achieving positive changes does not help unless it is discussed on an up-to-date basis. This is also a message or may be a message to those to whom the recommendations are sent because HS support is very important for the implementation of recommendations as seen through the implementation statistics. In addition to meeting HS and the public with key difficulties of citizens in achieving human rights, equality, the debate on the report is actually a basic prerequisite for the necessary changes to which the report indicates. It is also in the spirit of the Constitution, which has been designated by the Advocate General as the authority for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms, and as the Advocate General, I want to do just that. To conclude, the reports are a tool that we have to point out problems in the field of human rights, the rule of law and equality, which are a problem, but should be presented in a constructive way by proposing and recommendations for their correction that should be and should be constructive and feasible, and in essence there should be dialogue, of course and debate, but ultimately cooperation without which there is no change for the better. It's also, of course, co-operation with the authorities of the state administration. I am therefore particularly pleased that today we will address the debate on the state of protection of human rights and freedoms in Croatia from which I hope that there will be an implementation of a number of recommendations aimed at correcting the problems identified and ultimately.../The speakers speak at the same time./... for better in the systems and everyday lives of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47982	Thank you very much. You've got replicas. Mrs. Katarina Nemet first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47983	Thank you. Respected. Namely, you're here reporting to us for '18, '19. And in the '20s are reports before your term, what I'm interested in is whether and what are you going to do about gender discrimination in the reports? We discussed this on the board yesterday, however, when we know that the National Strategy for Gender Equality has not been adopted since 2015, and you are the authority of the HS for the protection of human rights I find inadmissible that it is not spoken of or written in the reports. So I'm appealing to you that if we don't bring in a national strategy during this year that the recommendation report will certainly include that kind of recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47984	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47985	Thank you for this. I would point out that the attorney general is responsible for the prevention of discrimination under the Discrimination Act. Based on an article. 13th of this Act of Conduct, when it comes to the basis of specific laws, and in this case, the Law on Gender Equality, this jurisdiction has the Advocate General for Gender Equality. Therefore, according to the Law on Gender Equality, this Ombudsman submits a report to HS, she is duly competent for the basics of sex, sexual orientation, gender identity of expression, marital or family status. The institution of the Advocate General and the Advocate General for Gender Equality, of course, cooperate very well and cooperate very well, and the Ombudsman's staff as the central body for the prevention of discrimination in annual reports each time just so that HS can get a united image of discrimination in Croatia on all discriminatory grounds in the Republic of Croatia, it is derived from statistics on sex. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47986	Thank you very much. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47987	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed Attorney General. The 2018 report lists 209 as a recommendation which would make the situation better, removing any form of scarcity based on complaints from citizens. So I'm wondering if you have any information on how many of these 209 recommendations are from 2018. by the facilities of some to whom they are sent, how many have been implemented and is the situation ultimately better in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47988	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47989	I have the information absolutely, I have it in my paper, but I have to say that all the statistics compared to these three annual reports were not possible to learn by heart, but I will very much in the final word when I will again have the opportunity to speak and present the statistics on the implementation of the recommendations for 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47990	Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47991	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed Attorney General. At first I congratulate you and wish you success in the conduct of this very responsible duty. I will briefly look at the problem of people with mental disorders who are a vulnerable and marginalized group can also put this in the context of a global epidemic of covid, especially those of older age who have certain mental problems where we have encountered not only about freedom of movement but also other implications in this time. I use the opportunity to invite you to participate on the day of the right of persons with mental disorders that we mark every year on June 6th at the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, which is synonym for Croatian psychiatry and I would also like to talk about the positive aspects of our Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders that are professors. Velinka Grozdanić and the late professor. Vlado Jukic did seven years ago and I think we should talk about positive Like you said, it's the role of the attorney general to be a bridge. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47992	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47993	Thank you very much for mentioning this very important topic. Absolutely people with mental disorders, and the combination of actually older age, I think they're very important already, I've already received an invitation to mark this day and hold the exhibit, and if I'm not mistaken, I've already accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47994	- Mrs. Crescent. Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47995	Ma'am. Simonović Einwalter, you've been selected by the HDZ and SDP coalition and we also know that you've been a former deputy to the current staff attorney. It is also known that in a family relationship with former Justice Minister and Ambassador Shimonovic, who is better known for advertising the fight against corruption through Fimi Media without competition. It is important to point out that this same Mr. Shimonovic was in charge of today's officials Plenkovic, Milanovic, Jandrokovic, people who were mostly watching the Homeland War on TV. Please tell the Croatian public, do you consider your choice an act of nepotism? Tell the Croatian public will you be the lawyer of these gentlemen or will you be a lawyer of Croatian citizens, as the law prescribes? Whose side are you working for?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47996	Here, answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47997	No problem. So I don't think I've been elected by the HDZ and SDP coalition but by most of the 115 parliamentary deputies, of the 116 who voted. As far as my family bond is concerned, yes, certainly, who my father and mother are I'm not hiding. I don't mean to talk about my parents' careers, I think my work so far is talking about me, and I think my future work will, too. And whose attorney I'm going to be, I'm going to be the attorney general in accordance with what the Constitution requires and the laws that determine my powers and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47998	- Mrs. Crescent. Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u47999	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Advocate General, I would like to begin by congratulating you on this responsible and international duty that you will be acting and thanking you in advance for all the effort you are going to make in your performance and I wish you all the happiness in furthering the work that is not easy in most of the time. By studying the reports in the work and service relations, I noticed an increase in complaints from the same and despite the recommendations you made to the authorities, few were positively resolved, almost nothing. and I am interested specifically, how and in what way can the applicant receive a positive solution as regards the transfer of the officers of the MORH closer to their place of residence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48000	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48001	Thank you. Yeah, you've touched something that I think is very important, you need to distinguish what the recommendations are in individual cases and what are the general recommendations in the reports. As far as being a little bit positively resolved, I would say that I've been based on these really many years in this institution where I've been working since 2008, every time it comes to the jurisdiction of the institution, we make a recommendation. And if the recommendation has been implemented, unfortunately it does not depend or at least depends solely on us. So there is also a certain link then between the individual recommendations and the general recommendations that are given and referred to you to the parliamentary representatives in the annual reports, and that is exactly the role of this institution, to raise what is individually to what is principled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48002	- Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48003	Thank you very much. The esteemed attorney general, I'd be focusing on the area of health care. I have read, of course, all 3 years, all the reports here, in fact, that is, a colleague who has before you made a number of recommendations that have unfortunately not been implemented, even many of them have not even been manifested, especially for 2020, which has truly disappointed me, so just focused on this mental health strategy and the ban on employment in health institutions, which is particularly a problem at this time of the pandemic, when there is particularly a lack of employees in the health system. What I am interested in is the problem of palitative concern, which is detailed in 2018 and 2019. However, I do not notice anything 2020. The way I work in the health system, and I know that this problem hasn't been solved, if it's gone by mistake, what do you think the problem is, I don't think there's a palitative concern solved. That there's a lot of work to be done here. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48004	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48005	I think you're absolutely right, I think that in Croatia the problem of palitative care is not well solved, I think that many who were also personally, even if they don't work in the health system, personally in the situation that they have their often old, sometimes young dying, will know about the problem. At the same time, there is always one dilemma when doing these reports if you make recommendations and the situation is not corrected. Are you going to keep repeating the same and what you're going to do. Given that there were no significant number of complaints in this area during 2020 which are largely, in fact, I say, eaten complaints concerning the pandemic, that is one of the reasons why as far as I know it was left out of the 2020 report, which does not mean that it was not an important topic or that it will not be an important topic for me in the future term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48006	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48007	Thank you. Dear Ombudsman, as you said, you are the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts, but the Croatian Parliament has not put on the agenda a report from 2019 or 2019 but together with 2020. In fact, it is in my opinion, and do you think that it is actually marginalising the institution's work of the Ombudsman and the messages to the public authorities that the Croatian Parliament does not actually see you as an authority to protect and promote human rights and does not really want to hear constructive criticism from your reports to public authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48008	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48009	In the last day and a half there have been some misinformation in the public space on this issue, so I would like to point out that all reports have been submitted in time according to the legal deadline. Also, the government gave an opinion on all reports relatively quickly and they were actually technically put on the agenda, but no debate was scheduled. I think it is one question for the debate of parliamentary representatives and the political issue, but I also think it has an effect on the implementation of recommendations and on what is the achievement of the efficiency of the institution's work. So, as I pointed out in the opening speech, statistics, implementation recommendations show that the up-to-date debate led to a higher level of implementation. I think focus should be precisely for implementation content and recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48010	Thank you. Mr. Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48011	Thank you. The esteemed attorney general, my sincere congratulations once again, and I hope for good cooperation as well as so far. Please tell me more about cooperation with local self-government units, how well this cooperation was and how it was. It is also to the extent that units of local self-government carry out their obligations to the councils of national minorities. I also ask you to tell us how you feel about a protest in Međimurje called “I Want A Normal Life. ” Is it in your opinion that the protest was racist because there was a mass of people, some dressed in black shirts protesting against the Roma community, and the name of the protest itself is indicative because they wanted to say that normal life is the one without Roma itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48012	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48013	Yes, as you know as a representative, unfortunately certain units of local self-government do not respect their obligations to the councils of national minorities, and as they are prescribed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. This is not only about financing but also about providing spatial conditions for their work. And as it stands out every year in chapters, not only these last 3 years but a long number of years when it comes to the rights of national minorities, it is this institution's position that obligations under the Framework Convention on the Rights of National Minorities and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities should be respected, and in this sense, and I also think recently said the Council of Europe Committee following the application of the Framework Convention on the Rights of National Minorities. Regarding the protest in Čakovec, I must say that otherwise, the freedom of public gathering is an important human right. Yeah. [[Intruder: Time unfortunately.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48014	Unfortunately, time, but you'll get a chance later, yes. Mrs. Marina Opaèka Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48015	Thank you. The Honorable Attorney General, the Civil Protection Staff, after the pandemic was declared, made decisions that greatly restrict human freedom. Among other things, on March 23, 2020, we met with a decision to prohibit leaving the place of residence, which I think is a personal absolute violation of human rights. Please answer me specifically, do you hold as a professional when it comes to the protection of human rights that there have been violations of the same here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48016	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48017	As a professional or professional, I have to answer as any good lawyer, which is to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court that bind us all. However, I will also say that as an institution, we have constantly received complaints from citizens who have questioned whether the restriction on their rights and the restriction on freedom of movement, the restriction of rights. What was the response of this institution to the appropriate decisions of the Constitutional Court was certainly a balancing or balancing between restrictions and public health threats. After the Constitutional Court's decision, the role of the Advocate General is not to criticise or question or decide otherwise than the Constitutional Court decides.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48018	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48019	Thank you very much. Dear Ombudsman, congratulations on your choice, good luck in your work, and congratulations on the good answer to the small provokings we unfortunately have in this home. But what I must say is that it is a shame to discuss in May 2021 the report for 2018, 2019 and 2020, of course, does not say anything about you, the attorney general, does not speak about us either, but says how much human rights and protection of the rights of our citizens matter to the ruling majority. And speaking of the ruling majority and the protection of human rights, one of the topics that extends from the report is co-operation with the institutions of the state. I think it's good to say here from this pay phone and you also say that some institutions are systematically deaf about your memos, your rushes, your insistence on solving some issues. You're our authority, and if you're ignored by the council, but here are some people, it's obviously not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48020	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48021	I've already shown myself about the time of the debate, I have to say that it's most important to me in everything that reports are being discussed, that it's being discussed up-to-date because it's actually a responsibility to the citizens. If they're giving us complaints at one time and we're doing a report based on these complaints, I think they deserve to be talked about when they're current. I think that today in 2021 we're discussing a report from 2018, a world far away, the world has changed since then, and I think it's a shame, but I've already said it. As far as cooperation with institutions is concerned, I think there is a wrong idea among some that the Ombudsman is also on the other side of the battle line in relation to the authorities of the state administration. I don't think that's true. I think that without the co-operation or the attorney general, when I talk about myself and the institution right now, he has to cooperate with the authorities because the implementation of the recommendations does not exist without that cooperation. What I think is important is to get a greater number of manifestations when the government's opinion on the recommendations so that we can have one dialogue that is then realized during years and at meetings. [[Intruder: Thank you, forgive the weather, time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48022	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, following the work of the former Ombudsman, reading her reports, I got the impression that not all citizens were equally important to her and that all human rights were not equally important to her. It can be noted, however, that according to some publications in the media or some complaints, she reacted very spotlessly, but when it came to the right to a conscience or the right to freedom of religion that the Ombudsman had actually not only kind of skipped the subject but, in fact, called through her recommendations to limit her right to appeal to conscience or to restrict religious freedoms. I don't think such an asymmetric approach is good, it runs totalitarianism, it places the ideological attorney under some ideological color, which should not be because she has to protect all citizens and all human rights equally, so I wonder if you'll change that practice in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48024	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48025	First of all, I will say that in fact this institution deals with issues of faith through 2 or almost 3 mandates, one through a ban on discrimination based on faith or belief, the other as a national institution for the protection of human rights, taking into account both the right to faith and the rights of religious communities, and it can also appear in... The term of office. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'm also saying is that in some situations, of course, there is a need to balance different human rights and that, in particular, different rights will be balanced, of course, depending on a specific case. Of course, the attorney general is independent and independent of the choice of topics, but what I think should be a good guide to what citizens are complaining about. We receive quite a small number of complaints when it comes to violations of the right to faith or discrimination based on faith or belief What we tried [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48026	Mr. Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48027	Thank you very much. The esteemed Attorney General, this report, all three are very comprehensive and are actually based on complaints from citizens and your assessments, in fact, on what is the situation in each segment. What I really find very indicative of here, you yourself were talking about the recommendations that they need to be the result of communication and state bodies and your office, but now in the last 2 reports when we see that the percentage of the implementation of these proposals is 26 and 20%, it's actually quite low. Do you actually think in your future work to analyze why this low percentage is so, do you intend to strengthen that communication with state bodies? There is another important institute and your tool that the law allows you, which is the submission of special reports. We've been saying here that these three reports in general haven't been discussed, but it might be good to have a special report a year that focuses more heavily on something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48028	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48029	Thank you for these two extremely important topics. I absolutely think of strengthening communication, as I have already said by mentioning the bridge, so I think that this institution should be a bridge among different stakeholders and I think that without communicating with the authorities that are referred to the recommendations and without their feedback to the Ombudsman on the body's position in relation to some recommendation why they appreciate that they can or cannot implement it, which is also legitimate, but must be based on feedback and not only through reports, but not only through correspondence in cases, but through meetings, through the establishment of a group of coordinators in different bodies to further improve that cooperation, I absolutely think that cooperation is important. As for the special reports, I think they're an extremely important tool. During her eight-year term of office, the previous prosecutor drew up 3 special reports. I'd very much like to tell you the truth. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48030	So would I.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48031	Yeah, she's been doing special reports, like an earthquake or a coronary pandemic, but I think this year will be really demanding for me. But in the future, I hope to make special reports. [[We're past time, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, we're past time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48032	We're past time. Mr. Bartulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48033	Here's a thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. Shimonovic, I hope we will develop a good cooperation during the duration of your term of office. Compared to 2018 and 2019, today the conditions of our daily life are completely different, we are all aware of that. I'd be interested in your opinion on these speculations about returning to normality or the condition of a covid passport or a test that someone is not infected with entering the most common rooms of the store or travel elsewhere? So you're aware that at this time, actually, fundamental rights are, for example, right to work, denied because of the pandemic, but we're all concerned about what this new normality is going to look like, so I'd like to know how you feel about how you're going to deal with it, is it appropriate to condition your movement with Thank you. [[- Thank you very much, Mr. Bartulica.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48034	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48035	Thank you for this question. Yeah, I think it's going back to normal or it should be the goal of absolutely everyone. On the one hand, I'd make a difference between crossing the border and what's going on in national systems. So, as you pointed out here, this is about work and employment and possible consequences for workers, but also about access to goods and services that have been really written about both national and global media. The fact that on the one hand, it is necessary to enable the system to function, for example the return of tourists, but at the same time very carefully because discrimination could occur if only vaccination is required, especially when it comes to persons who are or cannot be vaccinated, who could then be discriminated against on the basis of a health condition or, for example, if we are talking about pregnant women who would be discriminated against on grounds of motherhood. Okay. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48036	Thank you. Unfortunately, the chronometer is like that, we can't change it. Mrs. Devereaux. Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48037	Thank you. Dear Ombudsman, in the report you clearly criticise the fact that the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy has not passed the Social Care Act as it has announced 3.g. Although we've had a chance to hear here before from the secretary of state that he's still in April ready. Your recommendation is to increase the guaranteed minimum fee, which is also the fact that the criteria need to be tempered, given that 7% of the person at risk of poverty is covered by that guaranteed minimum fee. What is worrying is the high poverty rate for elderly people and single - parent families. The state of the fight against poverty and social exclusion for the post-2020 period has not been adopted, and the old one has been related to the period from 2017 to 2020. How do you comment on the fact that it means that strategies do not come in time, and that there is no monitoring of the implementation of existing strategies, i.e. activities and no one is following what the strategies have previously adopted and how do they affect the present?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48038	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48039	I think you mentioned a very important topic, which is the issue of the adoption of a new Social Welfare Act. The adoption of this Law has been announced for 3 years, but now, compared to the latest announcements that it will indeed be very soon during this year, a new law has been passed, I must say that it sounds very good, but there is still a legal proposal to be seen, and then to judge its quality. Certainly, an increase in guaranteed minimum fees would be linked not only to what you pointed out to include those at risk of poverty with current measures, or to the amount of minimum compensation guaranteed, but in fact here in particular I think that there is a need for prominent poverty in the context of older people, especially older people living alone, and at the greatest risk, or the highest level of poverty, looking at these parameters, there are currently older women living alone in single households.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48040	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48041	The esteemed Attorney General, you are aware that your fundamental quality should be independence, and you are also aware of the controversy surrounding the work of the previous Ombudsman. As much as the cognitive dissonance in the ruling is present, it is best to see that they chose you, although you worked in the same Office, and at the same time they did not want to accept your Reports, but they only took them into consideration. In that sense, my question is, can you take a critical look at at at least one dimension of the work of the previous lawyer, and to what extent will your work be a policy of continuity with equal emphasis, or will you offer us some other emphasis in your work, unlike the previous lawyer, and if you will, which would they be?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48042	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48043	This is going to be really hard for me to answer in this short time, but I can certainly say more about it during the final. Yes, absolutely, I think independence, even the most important feature of this mandate and this function that I am acting on, but independence combined with efficiency. I don't quite know what you're thinking when you say that my predecessor's reports have just been taken into account, namely, all the reports by the attorney general Laura Vidovic have been adopted, except for one that has been rejected, none of them have been taken into account. In terms of whether it's going to be continuity or discontinuity, I'm going to say this, each of us, of course, is a person to myself, but I'm not hiding, but, in fact, I'm proud of what I did as a deputy of the last staff attorney, and how I'm going to work, I believe you'll be able to see for yourself in the years ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48044	Thank you very much. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, It's a break-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48045	Art. 238, unfortunately, I know that there was a broad question, but I did not get an answer to what was crucial, which is the demeaning of parliamentary representatives, which is whether you can take a critical look at at least one dimension of the work of the previous Ombudsman, and as far as this part of the adoption of the report is concerned with the meeting of the Committee of Resolution, the acceptance of these current reports which are just applying to knowledge, and they have refused to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48046	Thank you very much. I didn't notice any demeanors, so there's a warning. There's no answer. Now it's the replica of Mr. Detachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48047	Your Honor, I'm sorry that we're only discussing the 2018 report with others right now, but as you said yourself, you're not to blame. I'm sorry that this speaker is not your predecessor because you have to defend the institution's reports at the time she ran it. I expected in the spring of 2021 that you would use your authority under Article 2. 16 The Law on the Ombudsman, where you can bring special reports in situations of broader threat to constitutional and legal rights and that we will have a special report on the state of human rights in the crown of the pandemic. Unfortunately, in the 2020 report of 264 pages, only 10 talks about it. If we add and where the authority is touched in other articles, there are about 5% of the reports, and we have received a special report on climate change. Do you really think and this is my question in 2020 that human rights in Croatia were influenced more by climate change than by the pandemic corona and everything that happened around it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48048	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48049	As I pointed out earlier, I think special reports are a very important tool. We also have to say that I think that the special report on climate change is very important and significant, and I think that by comparing the importance of certain problems, it's actually not good to bid, or at least I choose not to, I think it's very important and I want to say it's related topics. And also, yes, I mean that I would very much like to, if we were working or I personally did a special report on the effect of the pandemic on the coronary virus, I think it's rare that it affected human rights like this pandemic. I think similar to the two earthquakes that hit both Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina County. I don't know how many opportunities I have right now to talk about it, why I'm very likely not to be able to right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48050	Thank you. No, no, you won't. Thank you. But you can do it later. - Mrs. Crescent. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48051	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I also congratulate you and wish you successful and independent work in the upcoming term of office, and I am very glad that my colleague Rasdic mentioned this question because I too had one question for you, and it is related to special reports sent to HS after the floods that took place in 2014 from which he derived a series of recommendations from this report as to how the state can deal with the consequences of the disaster that were caused by the flood then, but also with all others and how to prevent the threat of human rights in the same way. Since this report is part of the 2015 report, refuted, my question to you is that the state, by chance, has complied with all the recommendations in this report, do you think we could have handled better, we cannot, of course, prevent an earthquake, but we can deal with all those crisis situations and access to certain services and prevent discrimination against people affected by disaster? Thank you, Mrs. Voter. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48053	Yes, you're right, it's a special report that was also rejected, so the last prosecutor was denied one annual report, and it was specifically a report on floods. And yes, I think it's a shame that it was rejected and I think we'd all be better off if the recommendations in that report were implemented. They referred to strengthening the civil protection system, in a way that responds in crisis situations. I think we all know that prevention and planning is very important in advance, and I think we've regained consciousness now. What seems to me is that it makes sense to look constructively forward and how to take this opportunity now that you actually have. It's up to me to point out, and it's up to you to really change things, with some future disasters, and I also think it's certain that they're going to show up, and then we're going to establish better systems to prevent non-match and inability to react quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48054	Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48055	Your Honor's Attorney General. Since you have worked closely with the Standard for Pensions Studies in the past, and you have also been known for your cooperation with colleagues of gender, gender, queer, I am interested in your position as attorney in the case of Šegota-Kožić or the role of the Constitutional Court, later the Administrative Court regarding the adoption of children, since you are talking about the promotion of human rights and freedoms, is it your right and the freedom of that child, although you are not a guardian for children, but you can also be asked, this child is violated when or for some potentially other children, since I believe that every child and every person has the right to have a normal family? Your attitude, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48056	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48057	I could now answer that it is about jurisdiction and the other two attorneys, the lawyer for gender equality, since it is about the rights of the LGBT community specifically on the potential discrimination based on sexual orientation and the Ombudsman for children since you are questioning in this context the rights of the child. However, I will not get away with it so easily and point my finger exclusively to other attorneys but rather take advantage of this opportunity to serve as a public defender, which reminds me that this institution is the central body responsible for the fight against discrimination, I say my position. And my view is that it's a normal family, we're probably not going to share the same attitudes, but my views at this point are not important, what matters is the legal framework that we have in the Republic of Croatia. We have one side of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48058	Thank you very much. You'll have a chance at the end. You raised your hand, probably a break, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48059	The Honorable Vice President of HS. So, I request a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club for ten minutes to further consult on this report. I'm glad the D.A. is brave, unlike some who always put it in gloves and camouflages, she said her position, her world-class, ideological attitude, and that's nice, that's brave. So, this attitude is identical to the SDP's position, the position We can, the government's view of Andrej Plenkovic is identical, but it is not a position in Croatian sovereigns. However, in a recent referendum on marriage, the Croatian people made it clear what marriage is according to him, what is family and what is normal and what is not normal or what is abnormal. So, the Croatian people made it clear. I'm glad that you're the one who exposed yourself and that you sided with the liberal world view of the one who actually chose you, you said it here with 115 hands. We Croatian sovereigns did not choose you and we will not choose you because you represent what we have entered politics for and we are fighting it. So, and that referendum on marriage that I'm talking about he was... he was a trigger and for my politics. And I will repeat it once again that you have shown who you are and what you are very bravely, so you are the exponent of a left liberal policy and Andrej Plenkovic and Zoran Milanović and SDP and HDZ and all the other cloudy grays that are in this HS. But here I am proud to be a member of the Croatian sovereigns who are clear on all matters and also on this. It's normal and abnormal for us to be extremely clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48060	Your apartment is approved, but based on art. 243.b. We're moving on. Now it's Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48061	Thank you very much. Please allow me to congratulate you on your appointment and to wish you good luck in your work. You know it won't be easy for you yourself, but of course you need and support from all of us and I'm sorry that in these reports she didn't have the opportunity to defend them and the former female attorney general because it seems to me to be the only thing that's right and only normal. But we're where we are. So, you're one continuity in work and I always think continuity is important. I'm going to refer a little bit to the 2020 report which in 2020 characterized two things, one thing is the crown or covid-19, and the other thing is the earthquake. But what I thought I'd never need in 2021. I'll say it, the report says that in 2020 we also had that case of armed assault on Mark's market and the report says it is necessary to prohibit the use of Ustasha greetings. “For Home Ready” in all forms.../UPAD: Thank you Mrs. Dark Taritash./... to fill in the legal void. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Where are we, what are we and how are we?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48062	I can't make exceptions, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48063	Again, it's a question I'm going to have very difficult to answer. You mentioned an ex-prosecutor, and I'm sorry she didn't have the chance to defend reports that she did, or that the institution worked while she was at the head, but I actually want to thank her for her work as well as the entire office. Why am I pointing that out? Because she's an attorney general and a person and an institution. It's an institution where it works a whole series of people very responsible and committed. I don't think it's good to bring the whole institution down to one person only, but it also doesn't need to reduce the responsibility of the head of the institution. As for the question of continuity again, I would say it like this, I see that there is a certain continuity because of course the word is an institution. At the same time, I was a deputy and there couldn't be any continuity. At the same time, I think there's going to be a difference. So, surely there will be more opportunities to discuss this. And as for this part that you stated About... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48064	You can finish the sentence, go ahead, finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48065	It is not easy to finish the sentence about "For Home Ready", but I will work very hard on this in more detail in the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48066	Please, in the end you will have, and you can intervene during the debate. Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48067	Thank you. As far as our support for her is concerned, you've been given a vote because we think there will be continuity between the attorney and you so far, and these differences that you're talking about, we hope there will still be an improvement in what we think should look like. But in order for this discussion of the 3 reports to make sense in 3 years, only you can give it meaning so that you do not stay in the entire debate and, as you have said several times, answer in the final word, I assume that you have said this because of your ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, but that you use your business law for every debate, and for 5 minutes you are talking after the speaker accordingly. Then this debate will make sense. Let's say after Mr. Rasdic and Mrs. Rasdic to come in and answer them, because I see you were short of time for each line. Then this debate will make sense because we don't need a bridge between government and citizens, we need a country movement for human rights about what they are now human. rights to the Republic of [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48068	Thank you. Come in, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48069	Perhaps then it is my ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, I must say that I am not inclined to sit and remain silent, I think I know very well the topics of the institution's jurisdiction and there are no topics I am afraid to talk about in this high house. So, as far as I've been informed, in all the earlier defenses of the report that the last occupier and the special defender had the opportunity to use the replicas of the MPs, the opening speeches, I haven't heard until now that there was another option, but if there is one, that's what I'm prepared for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48070	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas, and just before I told you that you could intervene at any time for five minutes as any proposer of any report or law. Just a moment, Mrs Selak Rasudiæ, if the Government representative wishes to give an additional explanation, no, if he wants to take the word, please, if he wants to take the word of the Committee's rapporteurs, no. I'm opening a debate, it's real Mrs. Selak Rasdic and Mr. Rasdic, they'll share the time in front of the Most, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48071	Mr Vice-President considers that the report of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system injured the Rules of Procedure because they wrote that the report was taken into account, although most of the representatives and most of the members of the Committee did not make themselves known. In fact, Mr Milorad Pupovac, a member of the board, deposited his voice according to the chairman of the committee only to accept the report, and we were not told at the session about the proposal to take note, so I believe that the committee has not adopted any position on this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48072	Are you talking about the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? You'll have to appeal to the Constitution Committee and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in the way the committee decides in a specific case, and there will also be an opportunity to discuss how to deposit votes at committee meetings in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48074	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Yeah, okay. Here you go, ma'am, first Mrs. Selak Rasdic and then Mr. Rasdic, go ahead to the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48075	Introducely, I will refer to this, it is truly unusual and disdainful for the Croatian Parliament that the president of the board did not contact us because what happened on the committee responsible, and what was part of my question, is very important for the work of the attorney general, or for the adoption of these reports. Namely, the committee in charge did not accept these reports, he just took them into consideration. In this regard, since the committee in charge is in the hands of the ruling majority as a cognitive dissonance, because they have accepted the current vacancy attorney as the new vacancy attorney, which gave the previous occupancy to the occupier, or to her work. At the same time, they refused to discuss her reports, did not include them in the work of the assembly. They also did not give them the legitimacy of the committee responsible with a very unusual explanation that they agree with some recommendations, some disagree, so now they cannot accept it just as well but will only take note. Therefore, the ruling majority deserves and should explain to the Croatian public whether it accepts these Reports and what it deems controversial, if not, and if it considers them controversial, then it is possible that it has accepted the continuity of the work because it has given its ruling majority the legitimacy of the current occupier. Furthermore, since the prosecutor asked us to focus on the recommendations, I will ask the question precisely about these recommendations. We agreed that the most important issue that our citizens have occupied in the past, is the question that relates to earthquakes and pandemics. In that sense, when we talk about earthquakes, which are dedicated only to a few pages and to the recommendations made regarding the handling of these earthquakes, I must point out the devastating fact. To work on just one recommendation, which is to ensure within a reasonable period of time that services are provided through some mobile team of citizens so that they can draw up their own applications for projects that will give them money to rebuild, which is a good recommendation, but absolutely insufficient. When we talk about the scales of the disaster afforded to Croatian citizens, where recommendations on home rights, water rights, violence against women who are potent in this crisis, etc. We only have one recommendation from the attorney general regarding earthquakes. Why? I will also mention that the declaration of the disaster mentioned here and what was a condition for funding, the 100% financing of earthquake victims in the latest earthquake that hit Sisak-Moslavina County, violates constitutional values, equality and social justice, because in an unequal way treats those who have previously suffered from the earthquake and those who have now suffered from the earthquake. We expect the attorney general to say more about it. And yet, in the end, I'm going to say something about health recommendations. Those recommendations are too general. They are talking about a reasonable deadline to ensure that services are provided to all citizens. What on earth is a reasonable deadline? Well, I guess the attorney general can say something about that, too. They say concrete and effective measures are being taken for waiting lists. What measures are concrete and effective? So, if you want to discuss content, if you want to discuss recommendations, then these recommendations must be greater and more concrete in the fundamental issues concerning our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48076	Thank you very much. Mr. Detachment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48077	Thank you. I will repeat in the opening several highlights that I gave the lawyer's work when we talked about the election of a new one, and that is, above all, that during the time of general stagnation, crisis, setbacks, job losses, budget cuts are nice to see that there are some sectors that are constantly progressing. And the Attorney General is the fastest growing industry in Croatia. Their budget is growing dizzy, in 2008, it was 7 million kuna, now it's 2019. 12 869 000. It is followed by the number of employees' growth, so 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 52, 2020. 53, which makes a nice company, you'll agree. When we see the results, this office that should be renamed "Holding for Human Rights" soon cannot convince me that 13 good lawyers could not have done the same job that 53 people do in a year, as this 200-page brochure shows. The D.A., I'm talking about the former, of course, because she ran an institution at a time when these reports were concerned, didn't deal with enough what she had to do, like human rights in the root of the crisis. I'll repeat, just 10 pages of 264 for 2020, but she was constantly having problems, we had conflicts with the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, first of all, with the police. So she had to be denied by the Director of Police, this case of invention by a 9-year-old Afghan who was eventually accompanied by a father or by the fact that she was publicly publishing anonymous complaints, thus objectively jeopardising secrecy, and thus the effectiveness of the results of the police response, etc., etc. Instead of being elected by the Parliament, the Parliament is elected by the citizens of Croatia and is working in a partner dialogue relationship with the other Croatian institutions, which all ultimately have the legitimacy of the executive authority, by the Parliament i.e. of the citizens, the attorney general is basically being put down as some kind of beating that will sue us to some big foreign "Brother" if we're not good. Attorney-General Vidovic publicly muddled Croatian police officers and threatened to sue Croatia "The Great Brother", according to her, to inform international organisations dealing with monitoring, because it was denied to go past the law unannounced incurring and monitoring police action and data. So it also calls for foreign presses, such as the Guardian, a once-reputable weekly who has become some sort of window today, I don't know, particular ideological actor from Croatia something tells the Guardian, the Guardian then this particular ideological actor in Croatia says, but you see, the distinguished Guardian says so. It is sad to say this in this report, and as much as the Guardian is respected, perhaps the best witness and fairy tale written about the protests in BiH, which I have written all the essays about, I will not waste time on it now. Here are some examples that show the fundamental emphasis of these reports and the work of the previous lawyer. Police are being criticised for violence against migrants in the regular crossing of the border. So, imagine, the police are acting violently against those who are illegally crossing the border. In order for the police to treat us all Croatian citizens to find us at the scene of a crime, we are constantly doing this crime, possibly by verbal persuasion. What is most recent is that in the recommendations in one of these reports in the rule of law of national minorities, the Ombudsman would limit the sovereignty of Croatian citizens, more specifically, the right to a referendum. So the people are no longer sovereign in Croatia. It recommends the Ministry of Administration to draft a bill that would exempt national minorities from the referendum. What does that mean? Let's imagine that most come to a bizarre idea to introduce that members of our dear Czech minority choose 2/3 of the parliament. And now you can see that it's not right, it says, but you can't hold a referendum on it because one acquired right can't go down as unfairly as it is, or bizarrely. So then he recommends counting in some things, says he needs to count the ones the police treated incorrectly, which are ethnicities. But are we going to count and what is the ethnicity of the perpetrator of criminal acts in some environments? Well, of course we shouldn't, 'cause then what would that lead to in the end? She would be a language police officer, so she expresses concern, says public change has moved towards dawn and xenophobia after 2015, which is why refugees today are called almost exclusively illegal migrants to whom public fear and concern are publicly expressed. So how else do you call someone who's illegally crossed the border and comes from a country where there's no war but an illegal migrant? Would an attorney take away our right to speak and name things by their real name beyond ideological guidance? It can't, it can't pass. We'll talk about this special report in particular at the end. These brochures that present the work of a large office in the below tell the same story. It is a specific genre of a kind of masochistic literature of Croatian autoflagelation, which the people perform through the merciless hand of the attorney general chosen in the assembly to mainly stamp and rat on us. Perfectly blended in with trends and global patterns in which elephants will be made from flies, and elephants in the room will be more or less ignored as the crown of a crisis that is irrelevant to human rights, whether it's a performance, censorship or a crown regime. I look at her and Mr. Radin like a fish in a fish tank and I ask a question with a mask like I'm pulling out their teeth and it's normal, it has nothing to do with the threat of human rights but climate change was my problem last year. We're such masochists. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] We're not, and we're not going to be involved in this joke, and we're not going to support the reports, this isn't going to go away. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Rasdic]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48078	I thank you for the comparison, and this is now Mr. Veljko Kajtazi's turn to speak on behalf of the National Minorities' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48079	Thank you, dear Vice President HS, for the esteemed attorney general with associates, respected representatives of state bodies, respected colleagues and colleagues. As you assume my exposure will mostly address the issue of the Roma national minority or the problems facing the Roma community. As you yourself state in these 3 reports, it is evident that the Roma community is one of the most facing discrimination and prejudice. Here's just one example of how the Roma are more than anyone exposed to ethnic profiling, especially at malls. Data from the agency's annual report on the basis of EU law states that 45% of the Roma in Croatia consider them in the last 5 years. The police stopped solely because of Roma origin, not because of illegal behavior. Roma also continue to face recommendations in education, employment and housing, health protection, social exclusion and prejudice in all segments. In addition, the problems were even more pronounced because of the crown when the Roma found themselves in an even more difficult position than usual. As the epidemic's influence strengthened, many Roma lost their jobs or income. In addition to temporary and permanent income-free employees, many who worked undeclared due to the ban on leaving the place of residence and permanent stay suffered from those who were involved in the collection of secondary raw materials, and the abolition of regular bus lines and lack of organised transport. Roma also had difficulties in the availability of institutions in the centres of municipalities and cities. On the other hand, you say in your report that a good model has been developed in Međimurje County to overcome the epidemic of difficulties caused by the project “PRO Health for Roma” since November 2019 with the aim of improving Roma access to health institutions. I am now asking again, does this mean that you are satisfied with your cooperation with the County of Međimurje and that your reports make it seem like it is, and you know that this same county since there is a Council of the Roma National Minority there has singled out 12,000 kunas for his work? Look out, there's already 2 years, and it gets 12,000 kuna. If you think that's enough to work, then fine, but I'd like to see who with that amount can do anything. The Council also has no room for its action. Also in a protest called "I Want a Normal Life", the county itself participated in its organisation, with the support of the county institutions. So I ask you, do you think it's normal for a racist protest to be supported by official institutions? No one, so I don't argue that there's a problem in Međimurje. No one and anyone who wants to stare at it. In addition, former County Councilman Matija Orsush, also president of the Roma National Minority Council of Međimurje County, has made a public apology on behalf of the Roma community in his address. He publicly apologized to the citizens of Međimurje for any and the smallest violation committed by individuals of the Roma community. He said that as a legitimate representative of Roma, he was ashamed of every form of inappropriate behaviour of individuals from the Roma community and called on the Roma community to stop any unwanted behaviour of the mentioned relapsers and to stop the spread of damage that threatens human relations and makes any struggle and aspirations for a better life for all citizens of Međimurje. On the other hand, I have not heard from anyone an apology for the racist protest that the Roma there have been exposed to because what is different than calling a racist protest where life without Roma is claimed to be a normal life. I will repeat several claims made at that protest in June of last year, so it is said that Roma are all but humans, with the exception of individuals who managed to socialize and integrate. It called for hatred against the Roma, and some protesters pointed out banners with fascist features and wore pro-Statian black shirts, against protests requested by Roma associations, seeking to point out the untrue content of the protest did not receive permission from the City of Čakovec for maintenance. You yourself state that it is not clear why the protest did not receive permission because although the right to a peaceful public gathering and a peaceful protest can be limited if there is an intention to commit or promote violence of hate and intolerance. There must be a serious degree of certainty that the incurring of rights and freedoms and others will be excessive or unreasonable where the state must make sure that the possible limitation of the right to assembly is justified by the proportionate objective to be achieved. And finally, what do we have as the outcome of that protest? We have the fact that the situation in Međimurje has not improved but has deteriorated, that international intolerance is even greater, that many insults to Roma on social networks, or that absolutely nothing has been resolved by this protest, but has only further reversed what was expected. So once again, I ask you, how happy are you with the co-operation of the regional and local self-government units, especially in northern Croatia? I would now return a little more to certain figures that show well the uninvited Roma community, especially as regards the education that I consider key to successful integration. The report on the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma Inclusion in 2019 adopted on 30 December 2020 highlights a reduction in the number of class departments involving only Roma children and that they are included in 2019. 15.15% more were included in an integrated preschool education programme than in 2018. However, during 2019 there were 6,94% fewer Roma students in primary education than in 2018, fewer were included in the extended stay and additional activities of educational and social integration. In 2019 there were fewer Roma and secondary schools than 2018, therefore additional efforts need to be made to increase the number of Roma students, especially in high school education, which is particularly important because most of the unemployed Roma still do not have completed primary school. However, the number of students was increased since they received 25 Roma scholarships in 2019, three more than 2018, and 45 received them most in 2020. The figures would probably be bigger if the Roma national minority were still not exposed to the Hague public speech that was being promoted... and called for action towards them by Roma. Unfortunately, most of the Roma community is still attributed to most of the unfavorable and bad traits, and the few sometimes point out as a bright example because they are not all the same, we know well how such rhetoric is already known. In the end, I would like to refer to another topic, or law that is largely related to the Roma community, about the Social Care Act, which we have long been waiting for to come as a new proposal. In fact, there are discriminatory provisions in the current law that prevent users from borrowing their own or using a foreign vehicle, which is particularly difficult for Roma families who traditionally have more children and live in traffic isolated settlements and are therefore discriminated against. Not to be too long, it's just one of the lacks of law, which I'm going to debate and make my proposals about when it's in the procedure. And lastly, I must say examples that represent a step forward in the integration and acceptance of the Roma community as equal. One of them is a visit to the President of the Republic of Roma settlement Parag in Međimurje when it was in October 2020. was the first president to visit this community and listen to their problems and needs. Another example is Prime Minister Plenkovic's visit with Deputy Prime Ministers and a series of ministers who visited the Roma Memorial Centre of Ustica in Jasenovac Municipality last month, and I thank them again for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48080	Ms. Attorney-General Tena Simonović Einwalter asked for a word on behalf of the rapporteur for the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48081	When I announced that I thought the debate with you was something I was looking forward to, I really meant it. I think that the debate in the Assembly is an opportunity for the attorney general after, for a year or so, that it should be in my case, that's why I can't talk in some things like I've been a civil defender for the last year, but I want to say that I think and appreciate that this debate is very important. So I want to say this, I will agree with you that the earthquake in Zagreb and the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County should pay more attention. It is one of my priorities, as I have made public and announced several times I have been to Sisak-Moslavina County including not only in meetings but by walking in villages and talking to people as well more times than the victims of the Zagreb earthquake, and that will be my priority. As regards health issues and a reasonable period of time, the reasonable period is otherwise the legal standard in this context, where the medical standard and the question of what is within the limits of the possible and possible. So, I don't think it would be good to talk about the accuracy of the recommendations, they should be as exact as possible, but I don't think it would be good for me to talk about my future recommendations right now, that they're so explicitly determined that they don't allow anyone they're focused on to do what's best to achieve that goal. So the way the recommendations should be formulated by me should be such that they are realistic and bring out the goal but also allow for those who actually apply them in practice, and when it comes to medicine, I am certainly not an expert here to reach the goal that we want. As far as the issue of the size of an institution is concerned, it's something I wanted to do absolutely in the final speech. We have prepared one table that has tried, although it is not easy to compare the number of people, the amount of funding, etc., all of us related institutions, not only the EU, but also the Council of Europe. It's one mapping that's not easy, it's done now in a very short time, but I think I'm very ready to talk about it. I also don't think it's good to call this report brochures. I think that respect for the institution of the attorney general should be part of this debate, and I think that these reports, which are called law reports, are also part of our legal terminology, should not be called brochures. As far as the allegations of public mutilation are concerned, I would also like to point out that the reporting of international organisations is the obligation of this institution. We can discuss how certain information should be communicated, but the role of national human rights institutions is one of the mandates of this institution is also reporting within the UN. And I also think that international work is important, not because we are internationally present and seen, but because knowledge of the latest achievements of EU law, which is also our right or international rights which is also part of our legal system, the employees of this institution and the leaders of such institutions can best acquire through international contacts. I would also like to refer to the question of taking in knowledge of the report that has been opened several times so far. And I actually think it's a big subject. When I was being examined as one of the candidates for this function, I immediately very transparently announced that I personally did not consider that reports of independent institutions should be voted on. Part of this analysis, and in which countries in Europe vote on these reports, and with what effect, and I will be very happy to share my views with you today and what the results of this analysis are. In a large majority of Europe's reports, institutions like this are not voted for and for good reason. And in this context, I would also like to say that receiving knowledge on condition that it includes implementing recommendations, in the end line implementation recommendations and so on the bodies to which they are addressed. So, just taking notice doesn't have to. to mean... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48082	Thank you, but stay because you have replicas and you will be able to bond, stay, stay, have replicas, and you will be able to connect. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48083	I thank the Ombudsman for the dialogueal openness, and I believe that there are really some substantive issues that we can constructively discuss in this assembly, regardless of the possible consensus or not agreeing on some other topics. In this regard, one of the key issues is, since you are an extended hand of the assembly, our authority to talk to citizens and to achieve, the practical action of their rights to which the measure of recommendation should be general and to what extent should be precise. I agree that you can't give medical professionals until the end how to edit waiting lists, but when we promote these recommendations, and I hope that you will do better in the next period in your reports, they are really so first-ball and so general that they come out and frames of ordinary media bickering, let alone testify to the serious work of the attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48084	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48085	Thank you very much. It'll take me a while to learn everything I can and can't and when I can talk, but I'll be happy to answer. In fact, I think that, among other things, institutions can learn a lot from our relatives about how to formulate recommendations, and I certainly mean that in relation to the recommendations they receive from international organisations, for example in relation to these areas of the Republic of Croatia. In time, it was realized that the recommendations should be formulated in a certain way, and it is certain that this is something that I am considering. I also think we should take care of their numbers. In fact, what I would like to see is that the Croatian Parliament is discussing concrete recommendations. If these recommendations are very much, it's actually impossible. So when we talk about what seems to me about my future work that should eventually be changed about the recommendations I think there should be fewer And that would... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48086	That's the Rules of Procedure. We're gonna have to change it. Here you go, Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48087	Thank you very much. In all these reports, you state that it is necessary to inform our citizens better about their rights, I, as a medical professional, am not only talking about their rights but also about their obligations to care for their health in the event of a doctor’s recommendation, but let’s get back to these rights. Do you think there is any real progress in the fact that the government has made it possible for both health institutions and county committees for patients' rights, so is there any progress in making our patients or citizens more and more knowledge about what their rights are and how they can ask for those rights? And one more thing, you mention in 2020, where citizens are also not sufficiently informed about their ability to actually achieve psychological help. That is understated, do you see any progress and what else can you advise in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48088	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48089	It's actually about, even one bigger one, but two really very important topics, it's about informing citizens. Indeed, it appears throughout a wide range of areas, including in the area of health care rights. Yeah. Some shifts are noted, however, what we also see in the complaints are that we have a situation that there is more information available on the one hand than before, but we also have a higher dose because of the higher amount of information, and more disinformation. So, many citizens, let's say, draw their information from social networks or various forums, and even when it comes to health services, there are often some misunderstandings about what their rights are. At the same time, I also think that information should be kept in mind at all times that information can and should be taken by the institution by digital means, or online, but must not be forgotten that those who do not use the internet for their age or property or other reasons, such as disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48090	Thank you. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48091	The esteemed mother-in-law... I am here, Attorney General, and I have a question from your 2019 Recommendation Report, which I pulled right out of 2020, says, "The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the 2019 Police Attorney's Report has been found by the competent authorities to have acted on only 20% of the recommendations. It is particularly concerned that the government has not shown itself to be 60% of the recommendations." What's still worrying here is that the Ministry of Health didn't deliver the data in time and that you didn't put it in your report at all. I see it from this perspective. So you're a kind of consulting that you give the government certain recommendations to improve processes and processes and generally some social events. So now I'm interested, citizens, since they're watching this, why should citizens pay 12 million kuna, which is the cost of your office and which has grown, as we said compared to previous years, if your recommendations are not taken at all, so I'm looking on one side. the financial component and, on the other hand, the recommendations are not taken into account at all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48092	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48093	Well, you've put a whole series of interesting questions and thesis here. On the one hand, yes, implementation of the recommendations is absolutely what the goal is and should be working on raising the level of implementation of the recommendations. I will be there and self-critical, there is a part of us and in the way we formulate and guide recommendations, etc., however, a large part of course is also on whether reports are discussed on an up-to-date basis, as well as whether the bodies decide, and what their decision is, certain recommendations are implemented. I certainly think it would be a good idea for the government to be seen in the opinion of the recommendations. Because, as I said before, only through that dialogue can we come to what is a change for the better. As far as these implementations are concerned, the matter is, in fact, in the co-operation of the Parliament with the Advocate General and also, the Government, or the authorities of the state administration. But not just the bodies of the state administration, and the unit of local and regional self-government... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48094	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Detachment of the City Aquarium.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48095	Your Honor's Attorney General. I just wanted to explain when I used the term "butter", I didn't mean anything by it, the brochure is simply a small-scale booklet. I see through these 3 reports can be defined and genre, genre patterns of some of the same things, which appear, and we even have some literary parts, I wouldn't be wrong to say that in these reports, that there are parts that can be described as some kind of dystopia because this Croatia that is described here has nothing to do with the country where I live and real problems. Look at the way we're talking, I'll repeat, I see you in Mr. Radin as a fish in the aquarium, you see me as the one who'll pull your teeth out or operate on you. It's not a problem, it's climate change affecting my life. So, aside from that, I'd say, the distopian note in some parts goes into genre noir, like that story about the protesters who wore the prostastic black shirts, but I'll talk about it in free speech where I'm going to beg you to explain the difference between Ustasha black shirts, Proustastic black shirts you mention and regular black shirts. So it's a genre of one mixed part, and the brochure was... [[Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.]] I didn't mean to offend you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48096	Mr. Crucifix, time. You know that fish in the aquarium, especially red fish have a three-second memory, so then you have to be shorter. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48097	Yeah, well, about the pandemic, I'll agree with you again, and I wish I wasn't in the aquarium, if I didn't have a mask, if you didn't have a mask... Yeah, there he is, and that can be solved. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You have a mask, yes.]] Great, so yes, I think the pandemic and its influence on human rights and equality is one of the biggest issues, and I think that's what needs to be dealt with very seriously, and I intend to. So what, I hope you see it. So that's where I'm going to stop, and when you expose what you want about black shirts, we can do that later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48098	Mr. Bartulica. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48099	Thank you, ma'am. Shimonović. I'm going to go back to the pandemic and all the implications that come from these measures, so, in response to my question of new normality, or what it's going to look like, in terms of vaccination, you said and pointed out, e.g. pregnant women and those who cannot be vaccinated, however, as with those who do not wish to be vaccinated. We know it's not an obligation for all citizens, so I'd like to hear your opinion on that group of people. So, do you see new discrimination here, the possibility of breaking fundamental rights if these people for some of their reasons do not want to be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48100	Well, I'm glad we can continue that earlier debate. That's right, I mentioned I was a state of health and sex as a possible discrimination here. Not only can this be the age, when we talk about minors who are still not able to be vaccinated in Croatia, and then if you have less than 18 years of age, you cannot attend a concert, etc., but it is actually the most legally interesting issue currently that neither the European Court of Human Rights nor the case-law of the Constitutional Court, and as far as I know, comparative practice in one EU Member State is the question of whether discrimination is a restriction of the rights or, for example, the cancellation of a labour contract, those who refuse to vaccinate. What I think should be said in this context is that I find it difficult to imagine that vaccination would be the only option, however, according to everything we hear so far, vaccination is never listed as the only option, it's always listed as PCR tests or facts. that the person got over it... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48101	You can always finish the sentence, but one Thank you. Here you go. [[Invader Einwalter: Overcome COVID.]] Mr. Kattice. ... And that's a debate, and you have no more replicas, please, yes, yes, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You can go back to your seat, Mr. Katičić in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, and that's how we're actually continuing with the clubs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48102	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of this home there are 3 reports from the Ombudsman for 2018, 2019 and 2020, which we will have on the other committees a joint discussion so that this exhibition will also be on behalf of the club on all 3 reports for these 3 years. As for these reports in three years, it is concluded that all the same topics and problems extend over the past three years. But first of all, let me express on behalf of the club a certain satisfaction with the level of coverage and the level at which the subjects in the reports are discussed and processed but at the same time, the HDZ Club is now not satisfied with the content and arguments that are in the reports in question about these problems and topics. We keep in mind that some topics should be further addressed by experts in areas that are responsible for this because, in order for a particular problem to reach some conclusion, it is necessary to unequivocally identify all relevant facts and objectively assess concrete actions, and to appreciate and respect both the overall circumstances in which certain topics occur and the actions of all the competent authorities, they should be state administrations in a broader sense of that word and that term. I would like to remind you that the basic premise of the actions of the attorney general is contained in the article. 2. The Law on the Public Attorney, which is that the Ombudsman is the author of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, which has been established by the Constitution, laws and international law. In its work, the Ombudsman is also independent and should cooperate with other stakeholders in the process, and I am therefore pleased that during this debate, this fact has been pointed out and that in response to one replica of the representatives, the Ombudsman itself has confirmed that future co-operation will strengthen and be at a level that should be, or should establish, some kind of double communication in that body. It is precisely on this trail that the HDZ Club holds certain shortcomings in recommendations that are the ultimate act in the work of the attorney general. When the recommendations and topics set out in this report are analysed in detail, it is evident that the largest number of complaints and actions relate to complaints about the work of judicial proceedings of employees or to judicial proceedings, or that we can point to the judiciary in the broadest sense of that word. In addition to complaints relating to labour and service relations, discrimination related to employment and employment relations, complaints in the field of social care and property rights. The complaints of a medical breach have been dominant in the last year. Appeals further from the rights of national minorities are some constant, as well as practice based on complaints based on racial, ethical and national origin. All of these complaints are related to the 2018 reports while the 2020 report further mentions the problem of the migrant crisis. Such reports are therefore more than a good opportunity to open a detailed, professional and analytical discussion on certain topics in public space. He would therefore return in this statement to complaints concerning, for example, the judiciary that has been mentioned in all these years or even being apostrophe as one of the most problematic areas in our society. It's hard to count all the individual complaints and there are over tens of thousands that are related to the area. The taste of all these complaints concerns dissatisfaction with a certain individual court decision. It is concluded from these numerous complaints that even the recommendation, that the situation in the judiciary is at least chaotic, from the fact that one party's dissatisfaction with a single court or administrative decision is life-saving. In fact, that party in a procedure that is not satisfied with a certain decision because it failed in the procedure, of course, to be satisfied. It also expresses its dissatisfaction by complaining about the work of that body, whether it is a judicial or administrative body, whether it is justifiable or unwarranted. However, it is omitted to indicate that these bodies are precisely solving a huge number of other items received. This is exactly how it implements and fulfils the recommendations made in the report itself. This is just an example of how the recommendations of the attorney general are implemented in the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia through amendments to the legal and sublegal acts finally voted on by this very home. Furthermore, a number of action plans also implement a number of recommendations from the Ombudsman's report. Perhaps for this, the best example is the Action Plan to fight corruption or the National Anti-discrimination Plan. In conclusion, that there are certain problems is neither controversial nor questionable. All or almost all of the problems are properly listed and recorded, and are subject to a number of discussions. The fact that some of these problems are specific to Croatia and this area should also be accepted, while some of the problems observed are the product of wider international processes that are happening, and thus they spill over to our society. Therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I can express the satisfaction that from year to year the number of recommendations is reduced, which is a clear sign and confirmation that the problem of human rights is smaller from year to year. I also express my hope that future arguments and implementation recommendations will be involved in concrete legal and sublegal norms, and all for the purpose of better and more adequate respect for human rights for the benefit of all those to whom this applies. In this respect, the HDZ Club will take note of the relevant report by the Ombudsman for 2018, 2019 and 2020, and will vote on the proposal of the parent parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48103	Thank you, too. He's in front of the SDSS counseling club now. Anja Chimpraga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48104	Dear Vice President, the esteemed attorney with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It's been almost 3 years. Since the last debate was made on a report by the attorney general's office. Although this many years of reporting at first is problematic and difficult to follow, on the other hand it gives us the opportunity to look at the state of our society year by year, to pull the parallel and draw conclusions. However, the negative side and the most visible consequence of the lack of timely debates on reports in the assembly, for example, is that the Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, as the body responsible for drawing up a report on the implementation of the recommendations of the Ombudsman, has not been able to write its report since 2013, which definitely does not contribute to better protection of human and minority rights in the Republic of Croatia. The attorney general's office is rarely the only state institution to which citizens speak with full confidence and to be heard, and who unbiasedly and critically observes every segment of our country and society, making sure that no one feels less valuable or neglected. The lawyer and her office did not remain silent on the numerous situations of human and minority violations that were complained against by citizens, civil society organisations or published in different media, even when they were called in a negative context through the same media. Reports like these today ending the reporting period for the successful term of the former occupier, Laura Vidovic, but all the other documents that have come out of this office are actually invaluable to us. The reason is that the reports are extremely objective and realistically depicting the state of things. And most importantly, they did not stop at a mere critical review but contain constructive proposals and recommendations, and even certain warnings about how certain things should be. The attorney general's office handles about 5,000 cases a year, which is definitely not a negligible figure, and the cases are mostly encouraged by complaints from citizens of natural persons. In the last 2 years. The most complaints were in the field of health, while in 2018 the most complaints were due to discrimination. The recommendation was a lot, even 485 in these 3 reports and related to different areas of protection of human rights. The percentage of the recommendations is reduced from year to year, so from 65% from 2017 we came to a devastating 20% from 2019. What then to say to the latest report that the government has not shown itself to even 60% of the recommendations? 2020 The MUP has acted on 87 hate crimes, which is significantly more than 51 crimes in 2019 and 33 in 2018. As the growth was recorded in 2018 and 2019, it is a continuing and worrying trend. The perpetrators were most often motivated by the national or ethnic origin of the victim since it was a motive in as many as 69 cases last year. According to a survey called "Hate Crime in Croatia" hate victims are most often Serbs in as many cases. In a chapter dedicated to hate crimes, the lawyer particularly apostrophe to the problem of international conflicts in Vukovar and the conduct of the MUP, which only some conflicts are characterized as crimes of hate crimes, and most as cheerleading violence. Although a good part of those attacked has nothing to do with cheerleading groups or even watchers at football matches. Positive regulations governing the rights of national minorities on paper sound idyllic, but in implementation we see that it is not. While support for cultural autonomy is satisfactory in other segments there are a number of problems, I will list some, such as the exercise of the right to the official public use of minority languages and letters, representation among staff in the administration and the judiciary, access to public media and education, in particular in the transfer of founding rights and registration of schools as a teaching institution in the Serbian language. The Ministry of Justice and Administration reported that during 2019, public tenders and advertisements for 1433 jobs were launched in state administration bodies and professional services and government offices, calling 62 candidates for the right to benefit from the nationality of the national minority, eight of whom were employed on the basis of the highest number of test and interview points achieved. In units of local and regional self-government where there is a obligation to hire members of national minorities, tenders for 220 jobs have been opened, and out of 12 candidates who have called for the right of advantage seven have been employed. Although it is a very small share among the newly employed, the answer of the Ministry of Justice and the Administration does not really say whether any of the newly employed members of the national minorities have actually achieved the right of advantage from the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. It shall apply only if the candidate who is a member of the national minority and who has been called upon to this right is legally equal with a candidate who is not a member of the minority or has not been invited to this right. The Ombudsman also points out the problem of access to public service in such a way that the special minority editorial is not established, minorities should be more represented in the general programme of Prism and Maninski mosaic are too short, and the contributions are irregularly used in minority languages, and some are not used at all. It also lacks television programs for children in minority languages. As regards the right to use the language and letters officially for the second time in a row, the City Council of Vukovar formally respected the Constitutional Court's order to carry out the debate each year and decided on a possible extension of the right to use the Serbian language and Cyrillic. But as from 2019, he concluded that systematic delay of proceedings against war crimes perpetrators did not require preconditions for the recognition of new special rights in the context of the equal use of language and letter to the Serb national minority. This is because of the ineffectiveness of the state bodies of the Republic of Croatia in the processing of the perpetrators of the crime in a way that punishes the entire Serb community in the city of Vukovar. Not to be all as black as a positive example we point out to Pula in which there is 4.43% of Italians not even close to a third, but the bilingual inscriptions of the institution and street names are still used. With regard to the transfer of founding rights from Vukovar-Srijem County to the Municipality of Borovo, Negoslavca and Markusica have no movement for more than six years. Although the law is clear and the 60-day decision-making deadline has long expired. I'd rather not talk about registering schools as minority. It sounds devastating that only 3% of national minorities were employed by government authorities, not as full as 3% among court officials, but as well as 3.43% of state attorneys. It is an unwritten rule that when a minority member retires to his place, no one comes or comes to the majority people. In addition to impatience and discrimination, members of the Serb minority especially in areas populated mainly by returnees face unequal economic development and insufficient infrastructure, especially in earthquakes in Sisak-Moslavina County when it became visible in what deep material deprivation most of them live in. Efforts that are being put in place to improve this condition have not led to significant shifts so far. Research into the impact of European Structural Funds in the financial period from 2014 to 2020 suggests that in units of local self-government with more than 15% of Serbs neither the desire nor the effects of projects financed from funds on the available 69 billion kuna from eu funds in those environments reached about 3% and from domestic rural development funds around 8%. The developments are achieved only in access to social services for older and powerless and slightly higher employment, which can be linked to two projects funded by eu funds, these are the project "Laws" and "public Works". Unfortunately, the situation is not satisfactory and is not even being corrected by minor steps. The constitution says that the attorney general is the authority of HS and that important job should continue to work. The report must be critical and impartial because it can be perceived as a kind of internal control of the state. Finally, the U.S. Attorney's Office will certainly have a co-worker to implement the recommendations and will therefore support all three reports by the attorney general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48105	Thank you. Very short epidemiological or anti- epidemiological breaks up to 9.45 pardons to 11.45, up to 11.45 minutes. It's 11:38 p.m. Madam Attorney General. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:37 AM]] Tena Simonović Einwalter will now take a word on behalf of the promoter or the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48107	That's right, I wouldn't want it to look like I'm reading something and I don't, and it's part of this particular story about the Ombudsman as independent or independent, but in line with a number of open topics that I think are very important, and I'm sorry that Agent Kajtazi went away, I think he talked about the important issues of living conditions of the Roma national minority, at one point he asked if I was satisfied with the cooperation, specifically about the Međimurje County, I would say that when we talk about living conditions, whether we talk about educational results, whether we talk about the degree of employment, anything, when it comes to the social exclusion of Roma, statistics, and life stories that I've witnessed, I can't say that I'm happy. So, I think that absolutely every cooperation in every sense should be improved both for that and for how there is space, but specifically what he mentioned, was about one example that we highlighted as an example of positive practice, it's the same thing I want to say, I think these reports should be constructive and critical, but they also need to when something is positive, to praise it and also to notice and specify. As far as the next justice hearing is concerned, the number of complaints to the judiciary, etc., I would say that as far as public communication is concerned, and I will certainly be open to it, I think that the first time for certain meetings is now, but in that sense I also held a meeting with Minister Malenica, I must say why not at this point, I think it would not be good to communicate too publicly about the judiciary, because a good part of the citizens is not aware of the authority of this institution when we talk about justice and I would not want to talk to us and then be disappointed, because the powers to a large extent for what their problems are about the judiciary, I or we do not have, therefore this is a question of the long-term sustainability of the procedure and the same issue of abuse of the situation but again with limited powers, however I think that justice should be discussed and should be done, as regards the rights of the members of the Serb national minority minority and the general rights of law of law, which we are also show that the very well as the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law, and the law of the law of the law of the law of the law would be, and the law of the law of the law. What I also think should be used as a good thing to point out is I think that there will now be improvements on these statistics given the adoption of a new protocol on the monitoring of hate crime, which is also being attended by representatives of the office. And finally about the issue of actually cooperating with the bodies, I don't think that, I mean, I'm not saying that the content that we now have in these three reports is also not the data that we received from the body of the state administration through cooperation, we are. So, the state administration's bodies were responding to the attorney general through complaints in individual proceedings, but also in letters asking for information on reports, and a network of coordinators was also set up that was a little bit dead in view of the conditions that brought us the pandemic of the coronary virus, but I plan to restore that network. And finally, I say, that question remains, which has also been mentioned about receiving knowledge. What I think is the most important implementation of the recommendations. Getting knowledge can be fine if it is principled and if it is not just a matter of message to the person at the head, what if it understands the role of the institution as an independent institution, receiving knowledge can be something positive. I have already talked about a context in which there is no vote on reports, I think there is space if necessary for amendments to the Rules of Procedure, but it is up to you, but the question of voting on these reports and their effects, the vote is absolutely on you, but the effects of voting on recommendations are what I am interested in and must be interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48108	Stay because you have replicas, first, two replicas actually. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48109	Thank you very much. The esteemed attorney's office again a little bit about health care. You have made recommendations through all these reports to the Ministry of Health for a little more work on the education of healthcare professionals, not only on quality communication to patients but also on patient rights information. As we stand in this regard, has the Ministry of Health implemented this in all health institutions? I do not, of course, give any justification, no quality communication, but we are aware that even at this time pandemics, the inaccessibility of health services is a little shorter for wicks and healthcare professionals who are undoubtedly burdened, but also for patients who cannot reach their services. Now, with regard to non-recognition of some patients' rights, for example when they are not given the cost of certain visits, I don't know by clinics what they can't accomplish with us, given the health care reform that's ahead where we might be able to remove individual departments. You think there's gonna be more of those complaints. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48110	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48111	Thank you very much. Compared to your last replica, I was in your debt and that response to mental health. So I think you've touched a very important topic here. I think the issue is on the one hand awareness, on the other hand the availability of services but unfortunately we still have a high degree of Stigmatisation in Croatia. I think that this is a big problem and that here we should step forward with a large part of the European countries that have seen that just now the pandemic has produced major effects on the mental health of people, and we in Croatia still have 2 earthquakes. Care for mental health should be a sure priority. As far as information on patient rights is concerned, as I have already said, many are not well informed, many are not informed, nor what it means to say what information pressure means, many have not been informed about the costs. Indeed, a large number of complaints are received by citizens who have any enquiries, any ambiguities, or concrete complaints about the exercise of health insurance rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48112	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk, you gave up? ... Good, good, good, good, 'cause I saw you guys and then you disappeared, and I see you here. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] And now the club of representatives, no more replicas, the club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns, first Mr. Zekanovic and then Mr. Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48113	The key question is that whoever runs the resort, in this case, is the attorney general, thinks it's normal or thinks it's abnormal. On my clear question a few minutes ago, the attorney general said that she and I are not normal, or are not the same things as abnormal, and it applies primarily to the adoption and fostering of children from same-sex partners. I'll remind Šegot, Kozic, the first pair of homosexuals to adopt a child. I must further remind myself that this particular female attorney general has chosen who, has chosen the parliamentary majority with 115 votes in favour. The second fact, she was sitting in that chair just a little lower, being the deputy attorney general since 2013, so she was also appointed by the SDP majority at the time. In other words, in simple logic, we will conclude that this female Ombudsman here is an exponent of one and the same SDP's left liberal policy, which this time has been replaced by the HDZ. Absolutely nothing has changed. The evidence for this is also the claim by the esteemed Ombudsman about her normal and our normal thoughts on Croatian sovereigns. So this is what is crucial, what is most important, what is the world's view, what are the views on key topics, the most important topics for every society, and for our Croatian society. Here I have little reference to my colleague, Shimprag, who speaks of 50% of the hate crimes committed in Croatia against the Serb population, or the Serb national minority. Well, of course, when any violence happens that I have never approved or will approve between Croats and Serbs is always about a hate crime. You can't talk about a crime of hate when two Croats or two Czechs, two, don't know what, but when a Croatian and a Serb fight, then the Croat attacked a Serb and that's a hate crime. And here we have discrimination against the esteemed attorney, there we have discrimination, as we have discrimination in elections in HS. So, my neighbor, Mr. Milosevic, is elected by one law, and I choose by another law. I need 5,000 preferential votes to get me into the assembly, and he needs one vote or no vote because it's on the SDSS list that doesn't really need any popularity within the Serbian national minority. And finally the same important thing when we talk about rights, and you yourself have pointed out promoting human rights and freedom is your mission and your mission, your goal, we have had and we still have extremely limited rights and freedoms. I did not hear any of your views concrete and clear and related to the event when we were all introduced travel passes in Croatia. It is you who should defend rights and freedoms and clearly stand in defense of the pandemic of course is an epidemic present, but we must not disregard human rights, so we should also have a fight against disease in accordance with human rights. And in the end, I didn't even hear your clear attitude about so-called. Covid passports, say and what do you think or how you will stand there, will you actually make two types of people or will you still try not to discriminate about it? So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48114	Here you go, Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48115	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm an attorney general with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. In these reports as they are, of course in itself it is shocking that we are discussing the 2018 report, 19. And so, but there are circumstances. However, in all these texts we have not seen your clear position, we have not heard or experienced this clear implementation of the content of the European Parliament's declaration and resolution which Croatia should implement in everyday life is about condemning clear totalitarianism, crime, consequent and fascism, Nazism and communism in this regard. So we constantly deal with all forms of violence and totalitarianism in Croatia and those related to fascism and Nazism. As a snake of our feet, however, we hide the condemnation of crimes related to the terrible crimes under the Yugoslav communist totalitarian system, which is even condemned to when it will be declared here by this assembly in 2006. and he lives in Croatia on a continuous basis, we spend our energy on justifying it to a variety of these clear excuses of the flossulas about the well-being, and unjustly, especially in May, we unfairly put it aside, so you didn't have any need to see in these reports a clear status on the victim's side, the victim after '45. about the estimates of 250 to 500,000 innocent people who have been killed by a totalitarianism under the cover of antifascism under the star five-pointer who today in spite of European plantings clearly dared in part, we had the opportunity to listen to a once-a-time declaration by Ivica Racan in his declaration that he condemns the crimes and inheritance that he has inherited from the South-Communist and unitarian systems, but today in Croatia, you do not have one systematic approach, regardless of what we created in the Homeland Defense War, you do not have a systematic one approach and condemnation of innocent people, and in your report you tolerate still in a way that you place certain, clear, silent support to them, and at the same time you put Homeland Defense War and heroes from the Homeland War in this way, you tolerate rehabilitation of innocent people and thus tolerate it in a legal environment. You simply have to take care of it, and when it comes to condemning the crimes of totalitarianism in this area, you must take into account a clear distinction to insult all of us who participated in the Homeland Defence War, all of us who sacrificed ourselves for a free democratic and independent Republic. It is not the same, meaning the HOS troops and other units that used to live here long ago, and therefore the idea itself is shocking, dramatic when mentioning black shirts in Croatia in the context of totalitarianism of some fascist or Nazi system, you create a single climate in such a way that Croatia is a prisoner of certain surviving ideas and it has a harmful effect on many Croatian citizens who live peacefully, knowingly and responsibly, who do not spread hatred, who do not want totalitarianism of any kind who do not want national intolerance but you are underlining and thus indirectly instigating one amazing fact that we now have in the election campaign for local elections in Vukovar a parallel “No Storm”. Well, that's scary. You all had to react. What does that password mean? Where was the DIP, where was the state's attorney, where were the political parties, where you were the attorney general? It is a direct blow to our democratic system, to our victims, to our sense of belonging to the country of Croatia that wants and must be accessible and actually be a framework for a normal, peaceful life and the work of all of us, our families and for eternity and I don't see it in those reports of yours. Only subjective In fact, to conform to one unfortunately surviving ideology and totalitarianism. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48116	Now we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure from Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48117	Thank you. He's hurt. 238. My colleague Zekanovic throws out those qualifications "normal", "normal", and I think that you should have responded more to that than the medical profession said about this alleged abnormal in the last century, as well as the Constitutional Court and I, for example, would never have called it abnormal even though we don't share the same light. And he should also, when he is already calling for the case of Šegota-Kožić to distinguish the foster parent and adoptor, perhaps we should ask those children and see if they are happy under the care of the state or in the family that can give them... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48118	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Look, in the name of the club here someone can say that the Earth is flat, they can say anything and you can't give him a breach of the Rules of Procedure because there's no such thing in the Rules of Procedure and you know it well. That's why you have a warning. If he speaks for himself, then you can give him a replica. Excuse me, Mr. Zekanovic was first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48119	So, Art. 238. One is the difference between people and I think that every man is equally valuable, but every behavior is not equally valuable. There are behaviors that are normal and that are abnormal and there are behaviors that are in some, in most medical textbooks, declared deviant behaviors, meaning deviant behaviors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48120	Thank you very much, notice for the same reason. And Mr. Bauk, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48121	Sir, he's hurt. 240. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Hajdukovic correctly noted that the representative of Zekanovic called one social group abnormal and in that sense it is up to you to assess whether this is an appropriate or inappropriate speech and to give a warning to Mr. Zekanovic or not, but therefore to warn Mr. Hajdukovic is primarily your disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48122	Thank you very much. Of course you have a warning, and now I'm going to read the article. 240. The representative will be given a warning by withdrawing the word if he continues to act contraryly. 238 of this Rules of Procedure, which is why he's already been warned. A representative who continues to act against the provisions of Art. Article 238(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the chair may give notice by withdrawing the word until the end of the debate on the subject under discussion. The decision on the tightening measure referred to in paragraph 2 of this article is final, a reminder by taking away the word will be given to the MP and when he calls for violence or hatred, which was not, or when he insulted the Croatian people, which was not, religious, national and other communities, which was not No, it wasn't. [[Intruder: It was.]] No, she wasn't. I didn't hear the word "unnormal" here. ... No, I heard, no, I heard the words that there are different, I'm sorry, you know what I think about it all, but I'm here... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] but I, [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[I know, Vice President, which is why I'm surprised at you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48123	It's your fault, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48124	On the basis of Art. In 238, and on the subject of disrespecting or insulting the president or other MPs, I give you a second warning, Mr. Bauk. One thing I think is the other is what this Rules of Procedure means. Let's move on, Mrs. Devereaux. Rada Boric in front of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48125	Good afternoon, Your Honor's chairman, the esteemed attorney with colleagues and respected secretary of state. When we discussed in March the selection of the new Ombudsman, we warned that it was inadmissible that until then we had not had the opportunity to discuss reports for 2018, 2019 and 2020. We have learned that many other reports are late, but this one is now also heard on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Why was the discussion of the reports delayed? Are the backlogs now being discussed just because they have tried to politicise themselves until then, or have they not answered anyone that former occupier Laura Vidovic is here for the Assembly speaker? In fact, it was not that the reports were merely controversial, for example. the topic of migration and the treatment of migrants. Already some other places related to discrimination especially to hate speech. So, the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in Wednesday took note, unfortunately, of the reports of the Ombudsman for the past 3 years and of the new lawyer, and today is here and is already in a statement of the negative consequences of such reporting because, by receiving reports of knowledge rather than their acceptance, a message is being sent to the authorities for which these recommendations and written and sent to them that they do not even have to implement them and that we can only assume the consequences they will have because the government has not been manifested, someone here asked here today, even 60% of the recommendations. She also warned that this was the case with the former Ombudsman, who listed 142 recommendations in the 2020 report to the mostly addressed ministries. These recommendations should strengthen the protection of human rights in almost all areas of life and what that means if they are now being learned. The attorney's office received about 10,500 complaints in three years, years of complaints I would say about discrimination on different grounds and many of them are similar, even sometimes if you compare I did a comparative analysis all three years weren't even that big of a difference, except for health care, and today we've heard that it's related naturally to the pandemic itself. We heard from the new lawyer who was elected on duty two months ago that she herself had put just an emphasis on last year, on one side and because because indeed the flow of time seems pointless now to discuss in detail the '18. and in '19, and especially in the circumstances when we had a pandemic and we had an earthquake that had a significant impact not only on the quality of our lives but also on human rights. And most of the cases, therefore, were received in the field of health care 328 and related to the right to health care, but key rights also remained related to the pandemic itself, such as workers' rights, especially the situation of the elderly who have already crossed the poverty line. The inequality of course today we have heard also Roma minorities, problems with the Serb minority, but here I would rather talk about problems related to earthquakes, problems related to property relations. My colleague Raspadić Selak also said that, there is no one here, she overlooked because the report was done a little differently on those heads or on the topics, if we look at it, it's not just that in one place we're talking about an earthquake, it's enough to look at it, for example. The chapter on housing where and part of the recommendations apply also to the Central State Office for Reconstruction, even talks about how the advice would be done politically, but is also talked about to improve post-quake care. related to the model and the lease of state property. As we have seen so far in the earthquake, it is unfortunately not what we have and from the city property in the City of Zagreb it was inappropriate to see that from the city that has 4,888 apartments in its possession there were barely 20 apartments where families could be housed at the moment behind the earthquake. And now we're making a mistake again, so instead of paying the citizens at least pay the rent they still live in Hostel Arena. For the first time and here, among the most represented topics were also precisely municipal activities. We forgot someone was saying that earlier in the report and why it's more important for us today to talk about climate change, so I believe it hasn't even forgotten that we've had floods and that probably if you look at what it looks like, we don't know what's going to happen if we don't start taking care of that kind of human security. The office was extremely active in protecting the most vulnerable groups because we saw and today it did not stand out, which means we still don't have a new Social Care Act, we've seen all the events and violations of human rights related to social care, even to the most tragic events that have happened here lately. I would say that what impresses the D.A.'s office is extremely persistent, so these recommendations, which unfortunately have not been implemented, have been repeatedly repeated by some of the recommendations that would be good if I thought we hadn't finally discussed them to finally get rid of them. For example. In '18, there remains a recommendation on informal care for the elderly, but there is a new one to design mechanisms for the owners of the homes for the elderly, and we have had such affairs, and I still think that the gentleman manages whatever happened to him in the nursing home, because he has the right membership card, so that those homeowners for the elderly and the powerless who are given the measure of banning work are indeed such and disabling to work, and those responsible in the system to at least no longer participate in the work of that system. The Ministry of Justice and Administration was also recommended in '18. Register of life and life support contracts. '18. It simply writes why this is required, normatively regulate the keeping of a maintenance register in order to prevent the economic exploitation of older people by signing life-long or life-long restraints. Was this recommendation difficult to implement? We're talking now and in the Recovery Plan, we're talking about digitalization, so is it so hard to make a register? It's true, back in '18. National pension has been proposed, unfortunately it is no longer mentioned. So, with the pandemic and the earthquake, one of the key things is to care for our older citizens. And to conclude, no one has spoken today or I may have missed out on human rights education, it seems from this number of cases that our citizens know very well what human rights are and how they can ask for them themselves to protect themselves, but here there is a lack of education especially about anti-discrimination rights in those services in those institutions that our fellow citizens should and provide those rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48126	Thank you, too. Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartulica will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that when it comes to human rights and how they are interpreted as being very heated at times, our views are rather distant on some issues and I really want to have a constructive conversation with your office. We haven't been satisfied with the work of the predecessor, we've pointed that out more than once, and we're aware that at least I can see that human rights as a concept can often be ideologically instrumentalized, so it can become so big that the other side fights with it. Therefore, in a peaceful debate, we want to actually make arguments, and I hope that this will be possible. You are aware that human rights are at least in our Western civilization and the perception of a human being deeply consumed by Christianity, and yet what I see as a problem is today this concept is often used to undermine actually Christian moral principles in society. We see countless examples of this, I'll try to explain it. One more thing you said in your opening statement that you're trying to balance if you said so to balance different rights, I'm going to use the notion of alleged, alleged rights here because we deeply disagree on some of God's rights that I'm actually deeply convinced don't exist. We saw a colleague Boris refer to a tragic case of a girl from Nova Gradiška, and we all saw what is happening in our society, which is a tragedy, but what is important is to learn real lessons from it and what has repeatedly been pointed out in public is the right of a child. So the child's interest should be in the first place and it's worth it and I'd say it's an unborn child. So we can argue here when people's rights and the protection of every human being arise, but it's undeniable that the child's interest is an absolute category and I think it's worth it from conception. And one more thing about Covid's passport, to my question of what your opinion of it is you said in the end about vaccination that it's not yet a certain practice in the world, but I'm interested in it before it's determined, your opinion. You've been dealing with these issues, fundamental rights and freedoms for at least 8 years if not longer, so I'm interested in your personal opinion as the person in front of this office as you see this because we see danger, the danger that in this new normal situation, a situation that will follow that some fundamental rights may be compromised. And I think it's very important to explicitly say some things and say it out loud, so vaccination isn't the obligation of all people and it's not just about those who can't be vaccinated for some reason, but also a lot of people we've seen it in numbers in Croatia that don't want to be vaccinated for some reason. Therefore, I think it is very important that the sooner we actually reach some consensus in Croatia, because we see that it will be very difficult to balance these opposing sides. Okay, so here's to the specific reports, that we need to discuss today 3 reports unfortunately I'm sorry that it didn't come early on the agenda of this year, but I will look back on what we see, selective application of some principles, especially when it comes to the appeal of conscience and fundamental religious freedom. So the appeal of conscience is not just about believers, for example A doctor who does not want to take action, abortion at a hospital and appeal to a conscience without being practical, not knowing Catholic, Muslim or other faiths. So this is also what I'm talking about when I'm talking about this sensitive subject. I'm not referring to the Bible or to natural authority, but to rational arguments. I think what I'm saying is in line with common sense and I don't need to call on faith to make something, a question that concerns justice to defend. So we're going to be very careful about that and we're going to look at another thing and it's about calling on the practice or judgment of foreign courts, it's also done in a selective way. So, in one case, I'm going to state this verdict, I'm sure you're familiar with the 2011 Lautsi v Italy, the report mentions, uh, not to mention this, this verdict, when it comes to the complaint of a large number of believers about certain issues related to the cross in public space, etc., but the next page on a similar issue, when it comes to the appeal of conscience, then the European Court of Justice states. So you can't do it in a selective way and I think it's easy to see, if that's what it looks like. So we're looking for some consistency here, if we're going to use foreign judgments as an explanation on a particular issue, we need to be consistent, not selectively do that. As for the appeal of conscience, I don't think it's a good situation for certain recipients in Croatian hospitals to come under pressure that certain actions must be done whether they think it's good or not. I don't think the pressure should be, and we're going to go openly and say what vulnerable groups they are today. So it's politically opportunised to get the status of a vulnerable group and then it's used in everyday debates. However, I believe that the most vulnerable group is actually these unborn children, but we see what is happening in other countries, which we do not want to follow. Recently, we had a discussion on the Health Committee on Children with Down Syndrome, so some countries like Iceland, but some Scandinavian countries also boast that there are no such people in their countries today. So they made progress in that sense. We don't want to follow that, we don't want to follow that practice, I think it's a difficult setback, not a promotion in a moral sense, and that's why we're going to talk loudly and raise our voice, which are vulnerable groups today. It shouldn't be a diagnosis of a particular disease, actually, a path to death. So I think we'll agree on that and we don't need to have a richer experience in a material sense, richer countries necessarily follow. So we're going to be very loud here, I think there's a very lively debate waiting for us, on these topics it won't go away, it won't go away, we're aware of that, but what I see every year in the number of complaints Catholics is that even in Croatia where the vast majority is so declared, that Catholics, that they're actually happening to them more and more violations of fundamental rights, and also hate speech, and that we must also be consistent that we are really all equal to the law, and not that in a selective way certain things are interpreted. I'm going to say that this syntagma, that concept of hate speech is often used quite often, and those who hate are those who define what hate speech is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48128	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Arsen Bauk's turn in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Advocate, when writing a report for 2021, certainly mention the case that the vice president of HS, Mr. Radin, did not give notice to the persons who insulted the sex, gender and other groups, which he should have, but therefore to those who pointed out, gave 3 warnings, one colleague to Hajdukovic and 2 to me. And certainly make recommendations to the vice-presidents of HS and the chair of the session more appropriate to apply the article. 240th century 4 Rules of Procedure of HS and that part of the public speech...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48130	And now I'm gonna interrupt you and tell you next. I was part of the first gay Pride, and I didn't see you there. I was talking about adopting and fostering children by various sex couples,... Yeah, not same-sex, no, no.../incomprehensible, same-sex couples, sorry and this one, and I didn't hear you talking about it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I was a gay friendly person one year, talking to myself personally. And no, and now, I'm giving you a third warning and I'm taking away your word for insulting... [[I was a lesbian of the year.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48131	I know, Vice President, what you're thinking, the problem is what you're doing. The opposite of what you think and interrupt me, I'm very fond of you. [[You're, you're...]] I proposed the law on this and defended it here with amendments, while your coalition partners said we were out of our minds. [[I've never heard you speak, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48132	You wrote, you wrote this Rules of Procedure of HS, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48133	And it doesn't matter for Croatia whether there's a Tepeš or you, if you're going to behave like this, goodbye, Mr. Vice President, ariveders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48134	Please, please, please. Excuse me, Mr. Bauk, but I'll tell you one thing. You have written this Rules of Procedure, and you, and your opinion varies whether you are in power or not, and it is known, and not, that you have been taken from you. And it is also known that you always have the opinion of whoever is above you and now please leave this assembly. ... - Mrs. Crescent. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Tena Shimonović Einwalter on behalf of the promoter. And Mr. Hajdukovic, Mr. Hajdukovic, injured the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48135	First of all, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have severely violated the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238 allowing one colleague to speak, as you say, whatever he wants, and another colleague withholding that right You were wrong, Mr. Chairman, [[No, this...]] Arbitrarily you took away the word, [[I'm sorry, this one of yours, this one of yours...]] You decide who can speak his mind here and who can't. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... that's not the role of the chairman of HS. [[Intruder: This party colleague of yours has insulted me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48136	He insulted the chairman who was inadmissible, which is inadmissible. And my opinion on this problem is very familiar, and Mr. Bauk's opinion of the problem is that no one knows, has ever spoken of it. No, I don't. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48137	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure 238. So we can also have an opinion on each and every one of them, but I think it's unacceptable for the chairman of the Assembly to talk about what kind of opinion he has on him and what's common. I think it's a little excessive and it's not just good, so I refer to this when you say what's common knowledge of Mr. Bauk. Well, the general knowledge of each of us can be anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48138	I'm sorry, but this Mr. Bauk was demeaning or insulting the president, and that's why I reacted. I happen to be president today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48139	Mr. President, I can get one explanation, and then I'll calm down? Thank you. You gave me a warning while I was arguing and immediately took away my word from the Rules of Procedure. So, I would accept your suggestion continued to talk about the subject and I would finish my debate, and then I could polarize with you in an individual debate. You took my word from me at the pay phone, but you didn't take my word from me until the end of the debate. When I raised my hand, I wanted to ask for a break on behalf of the club and use my right to speak for 2 minutes. By the time I got my word out, you told me I took your word. [[Intruder Radin: When?]] After that, you told me to leave the hall, even though I wasn't kicked out of the gym, I didn't get that warning. And thirdly, you're a very positive and kind character to me, and regardless of our differences, I think the only problem is that you've gotten a little too involved in conformism and that's all I want, otherwise you're a very nice and positive person and come for coffee later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48140	Okay, well, I've gone too far into conformism, and you've never even gone out. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48141	Done. [[Bauk: I appreciate the good replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48142	Domagoj Hajdukovic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. No, first of all, Domagoj Hajdukovic had. No, good. Ma'am, come in. Mrs. Voter Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48143	Mr. Vice President of HS. Art. In 238, it very clearly defines in which cases the so-called representative shall be given the so-called ‘representative’. pedagogical measures. However, I also believe that you have brutally abused your authority and that instead of holding order in this assembly, you are actually running by double criteria today, you are not responding to a hate speech where you should, and you are actually taking away the word and the right to speak to those who warn you about it. I only ask you this opportunity not to violate the Rules of Procedure and continue to enable SDP club, regardless of what Mr. Bauk won't say on behalf of him. [[Intruder Radin: Excuse the weather.]] that someone else is speaking on behalf of the Representatives' Club. [[Intruder Radin: Mrs. Vosovac, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48144	Mrs. Voter's time. First of all, I didn't notice that there was some kind of big rebellion here, it was one debate between three people, and not a big one... not even with you was some scandalous debate or anyone else. Secondly, what I had to express my opinion on the problem then is that I was imputed not to allow other people to tolerate it. I've been here for 30 years, Mrs. Voter. I'm a tolerance, and I allow others to be intolerant of me. So don't just because the atmosphere is now like me don't impute things that don't stand up to me because it hasn't been a long time since I talked about it, and here it's imputed that I allow others to say their opinions on the subject because I listened well to Mr. Zekanovic. You see this earpiece here she's not the earpiece that I would listen to the phone but the phone to make me listen better to what you're saying because she's connected as well as you know with the microphone here, that I listened very well to Mr. Zekanovic. Yes, he was a borderline, but in the end he represented his opinion which can then be torn down by another debate, which you all have the right to, not only that, but a press conference or whatever you want. And I'm not allowed to be told that I'm not tolerable, on the contrary, I even let those with whom I don't share my opinion say what they think about a particular topic. And you all know I don't share an opinion. But while I'm here, I won't be intolerant of those who have a different opinion from me. Now Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic asked for a break, but didn't he ask for a break before and Mr. Bauk? No, no, no, no. Mr. Bauk is fine, but go ahead. [[Intruder Hajdukovic: No, you took away his word.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48145	But I mean don't continue to obstruct the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48146	No, no, no, no, please don't talk to me like that. I didn't obstruct the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Bauk said he had raised his hand to seek a break, then I gave him...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48147	You didn't give it to him, it wasn't a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48148	...the explanation was, then I should have given him a warning, forgive me and the fourth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48149	Then it's your failure to let someone look for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I am looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club, to consider whether we will continue to participate in a session like this. Namely, you said now I quote your words that for this speaker on behalf of the club anyone can say whatever he wants including that the Earth is even and some other things. However, hate speech is Mr. Vice President when a 10% Croatian citizen calls the abnormals. It is an insult to Mr. President, it is an invitation to intolerance and I who will also fight until the last drop of blood as Waltaire said about your right to speak will not tolerate intolerance to part of Croatian citizens. Mr. Bartulica also had a debate that shared a very similar worldview with Mr. Zekanovic not once did he use a qualification that would drive me or one of my colleagues to think that he was insulting, but at the moment you call thousands of Croatian citizens abnormal, then we have to react. And Mr. Vice President, you didn't react then, you gave us warnings, well, when our club representative started saying rudely you interrupted him at one point and didn't allow him to continue speaking even though you said earlier that you could say whatever you wanted for this speaker. You could have warned him after the debate, you could have told him something, like you should have told your colleagues to Zekanovic. And so I ask you to set a recess so that you don't refer to an article that doesn't give us the right to discuss whether or not we can take part in the debate under these conditions and agree with you as chairman that someone on behalf of the SDP Club can't tell a colleague, Bauk, that someone is speaking and that we have the opportunity to present what we think of the reports that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48150	It's amazing that you, I'll give you a break of course, but it's amazing that you take a stand on something that you know very well about my position. That's amazing and it's very incorrect and mine, perhaps even excessive tolerance as you say, you call intolerance. I'll give you 10 minutes now to agree whether or not you'll continue the session, but I'm telling you to debate this topic in such a way as you debate with me, it's, it's at the level of disrespect. I'm telling you just like I'd say to anyone else. 10 minutes to 2 and 54, to 12 and 54. It's 12:45. All right, let's get on with it, let's get on with it. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.53 HOURS]] So this sanction remains for Mr. Bauk, but this is not a sanction, of course, according to the SDP Club who has the right to continue his speech. Anyway, I'd put it on zero right now, so they've got 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think nine minutes will do. First of all, my colleagues and colleagues need to look back at the fact that in May 2021. We are discussing reports for 2018, 2019 and 2020. From the fact we've already heard here, which is that the world is in 2018 and the world in 2020, and only then in '21. One completely different world, I don't think I have to elaborate what I mean by that. And the next report that's on our agenda is actually saying something, something more about it. So there's a logic as to why we have the attorney's annual reports, there's a logic why it needs to be discussed on a relatively up-to-date basis. Just because I've talked about it before, and I've been discussing this issue since I've been in the assembly, so for the last 10 years, because this report is one laxmus paper to us as legislators. Are we talking about whether or not we are doing a good job, whether our measures, the laws and regulations that we are making produce results, whether they are protecting our citizens, where there are possible failures, etc. That's what we have authorized our attorney general to represent us, to represent and protect the rights of our citizens and to inform us about it. That's the point of these reports, with the counsel's recommendations she makes every year. And the only way to follow the implementation of these recommendations are these annual discussions, and this right and that obligation that we have both legislators, people who have been elected by Croatian citizens, it is our right, for that we have the right to be abolished here for 4 years. But that's not surprising for colleagues and colleagues is such an interest in the ruling majority headed by the HDZ for Human Rights and for the rights of our citizens. It's such an interest, which is that it's not even there. As with each report, there is a need to underline, above all, cooperation with state bodies, from ministries, institutions such as police, JLS, etc.. It is defeating that the report in the report needs to hear about how cooperation with some institutions is bad. At least in theory, HS should be the highest body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a representative body authorised by the Advocate General to represent us in protecting the rights of our citizens. If some ministries, institutions, directors, ministers, mayors, mayors go deaf about the highest authority in this country and go unpunished then what are we talking about, colleagues and colleagues, then all this work that we are doing here and that is being invested by Mrs. The attorney general doesn't make sense if she can't do her job. That's why I'd love to, ma'am. The attorney general said that the next time you file a report for the 2021 nicknames, state who these responsible people are who have disobeyed your memos and who have disobeyed your haste, who these people are by name and last name, this mayor, that mayor, this minister, because without sanctions we will not make a move on these people, we will not actually achieve the goal of these reports and the debate on them. There are two other things I'd like to underline and especially look back at them. One is the discrimination your office is most concerned with. So, we have heard that as far as discrimination is concerned, the most frequently discriminated people, i.e. our citizens, by national, ethnic, racial and similar criteria. He's worried that there's still dominant discrimination from these categories. The second most common discrimination is in health condition. So, there we can refer to both the sick and those chronic patients, so I believe part of it, although it's now overlapping with the special counsel, and for people with disabilities and the third age is still a colleague and colleagues. These are some cancer wounds that are being dragged from the report to the report. And in fact, with some minor variation with grief, I must conclude that we do not seem to be making continuous and good moves in this direction to eliminate this discrimination. Why? Because these categories dominate from the report to the report. Second, the second special category is hate crimes. Still colleagues and colleagues of our institutions who should be treated I fear they are not sufficiently aware and educated to recognize the hate crime that they are then processing. Because some have tried to relativize behind this speaker what is a crime of hatred, hate speech, etc., but this is a very dangerous path, and if we choose to relativize this path, it will not be good for anyone, no ethnically common, no group within our society, no political party. That's what I can tell you responsibly here. A lot of hate crimes go unrecognizable, go into some categories, any criminal, any criminal, but it doesn't go the way it should. And here, if we look at some of these reports, we'll see that the most common hate crimes are precisely those motivated by ethnic origin. So, same as in discrimination. The second category is faith, the third is sexual orientation, etc. But colleagues and colleagues, we have been able to witness many crimes in recent years that are not characterized or characterized only after a lot of engagements, sacrifices, and sometimes NGOs. You had a situation where a man was burned alive in Maxime because of his sexual orientation. It's a pure hate crime. The police, as far as I know, are still searching for unknown perpetrators and the police still don't know if it characterizes a hate crime, I think they eventually characterized it, but it's unfortunate that a lot of energy required it, first of all, from the victim we should protect, to characterize this crime as well. So, I think we still have to work very, very hard. And we, above all, as responsible politicians who need to raise awareness of this problem and what our only weapon is a word that we can direct from this pay phone and clearly say that within our society there are no normal and abnormal, there are citizens of the Republic of Croatia and those who are deprived of their rights. And that's all I'm interested in as a politician. I will fight for the right of all our citizens, including those 10% of the population that some consider abnormal. It's sad that it's precisely from this high house that such a discourse comes, that those who have an influence on the media and influence on the public, these messages are being sent. I can speak for myself now, so remind me if I am a hate spreader, but I experience such messages exactly as hate speech, hate spreading, intolerance and non-acceptance of anti-inclusion in Croatian society. Well, colleagues and colleagues, I think that's really enough. And for that, I won't be able to keep my mouth shut when things like that are on the agenda. To be clear, we can always discuss arguments in a civilized way, even if there are some things I disagree with and we don't agree on a lot of them. So, I've mentioned some colleagues before, that I don't again underline them by name, who also have diametrically opposite attitudes from me, but their discourse would not be regarded as a hate speech or an inciting hatred or impatience. Some unfortunately, I would. We may need an education on how to identify and fight hate speech, too, ma'am. The attorney general, perhaps it would be wise to organise it for parliamentary representatives, if not as an education, then at least as one booklet from which they could get all the necessary information and legal bases to fight it. And in the end, I'm going to say that I hope that we're going to discuss this report for 2021 within a reasonable time, that we're going to help be more forward and more up-to-date, that we're going to be able to support all the recommendations you've made and then hopefully give the results. The SDP club will support all three reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48153	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Tena Simonović Einwalter will speak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48155	Now it's already, I'm going back to the earlier speeches in front of the clubs, now so much has been said that it will be difficult for me in 5 minutes to refer to everything but I'll do my best. First, I return to normal and abnormal, here I want to say that I am not a politician as a public defender, I have to be a non-partisan person, but I also have to work on the basis of the right of the Constitution, international contracts, European law and our national law, given that I was asked about the case of Šego-Kožić, I will say that last year a ruling of the Constitutional Court was passed which found that life partners can also join the process of fostering and also at the end of April and the ruling of the Administrative Court in Zagreb. On the issue of discrimination, I would like to remind you that in 2008, the 2008 Law on Discretion of Discrimination, which includes both sexual orientation and gender identity, came into force. 1. 2009 and applies to all areas of life with some specific exceptions. In connection with the hate crime, they are initially on what is said, whether it is a crime of hatred only when Croatians and Serbs fight or when two Croats fight I will say, it is hate crime and when we have violence between two Croats but on some other discriminatory grounds listed in the Penal Code, for example when it comes to sexual orientation or other grounds. What I see, for example, from the 2020 statistics, number one motivation was national and ethnic origin, number two faiths, number three sexual orientations, so there are clearly crimes of Croatian hatred against Croats. Furthermore, as regards the condemnation of communism, fascism, nationalism, etc. All I can say is that again, I personally condemn all criminals and all crimes. But my job is to practice human rights based on law. So what this institution needs to deal with in my court is not historical issues in terms of history, not in political terms, but in terms of law, so when we talk about today's hate speech and today's hate crimes, and I think of it as institutions still in the context of law and legal framework should be written. What I agree with is that I think that Croatia must not be a prisoner of the past, I think that all issues can and should be discussed, but should be solved and then left in the past because citizens want to live and look into the future. As far as the Green-Left Coalition Club is concerned, I think it's very good to recognize that the methodology for making these reports is not so simple. For example, the question of earthquakes, whether to process it in one chapter or more chapters, whether to process the pandemic in one chapter or more chapters. As for "Hostel Arena," I'd like to say that we've been there recently. So, after I've been elected attorney general, I've spoken to a whole room full of people living in that hostel and I can tell you that their problems are very difficult and recognized by this institution. Communally, the complaints are on the rise. It's exactly the things that torture citizens, the protection of the more vulnerable, by all means. Contracts on life support and life support. Yeah, I also think the register is necessary because until we know what the situation is, we can't even seriously combat abuse. Education on human rights of experts, anti-discrimination law, so both on the one hand and in European law and in European anti-discrimination law, we absolutely need it. As regards Mr. Bartulice's exposure, I agree, a peaceful debate with arguments because there is nothing to discuss and to continue the answer about covid and discrimination. So, yes, vaccination is not mandatory and I think it's a good thing it's not mandatory. Those who do not want to be vaccinated, we have here, as I said, as long as there are other options, such as proving that you are over a covid or a test, but when testing, we have to introduce another possible discrimination that can come to, and that's a question of property, is not all citizens going to have the same means to access tests unless they're free of charge. However, what I actually think you want to hear my view is whether it could be a discriminatory basis of faith or belief and that belief that you do not want to be vaccinated whether it would be a protected feature again then come to questions of balance and restrictions on public health on one side if it were at all considered content that belongs to faith or belief. As for the appeal of conscience, I would like to say that, that I will agree to a certain extent, but again I must introduce this balancing of questions on the one hand of women's rights, on the other hand the right of a doctor. And I have to say [[Intruder: Thank you]] that we have a decision of the Constitutional Court and that we know that the law is expected and that's where you MPs are again. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48156	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. No, no, no, no, no, come back, you have, you have, you have, this replica. Mrs. Devereaux. Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48157	Thank you. I would only touch on the recommendations issued in the field of construction since 2018, so in 2018 we have one recommendation, in 2019 two recommendations and in 2020 three recommendations. One of the recommendations from 2020 is to trace the appeal of the mayor of Istria in terms of illegal construction and intrusion permanently into our space. I believe that with this increase, the recommendation is obviously the fact that we have been permanently devastated in some areas and therefore, of course, we appeal to the state inspectorate, to the ministry, and you have joined that appeal to put an end to it and that the lawless builders are sanctioned for their illegal actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48158	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48159	It's not really a question, but that's the attitude in the report. I absolutely think it would be unusual if the attorney general advocate advocated anything other than upholding the law and rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48160	Mrs. Devereaux. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48161	Thank you very much. So the role of these reports and debates in the assembly and the need to be discussed each year in the assembly is far-reaching. First of all, the recommendations are seen, and I am sure that the result of some of the recommendations would be significantly greater if the 2018 reports were discussed in 2019, and now that I am not counting further because the point is that the attorney general or the attorney general points out everything he saw in his work and what processes in society are happening regardless of whether we liked it or didn't like it, but these processes are important. So, in the meantime, we have a crown, a covid has happened to us, and you, among other things, warn in the recommendations that go to 2020, the need to adopt a housing strategy because there will be more homeless people, there will be people who will live under inappropriate conditions, there will be people who simply don't have a normal roof over their heads. And for the 2021 report, we'll see what's been done in relation to that recommendation, but I'm wondering if you have any backs on what's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48162	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48163	To think we have, as the reports say, so in this case and my point of view, we have on one hand a question of solving social housing and actually housing a whole series of categories of people who need to be taken care of, and there are not enough properties that would be built or that would be suitable for it. At the same time as the housing strategy and here we see that in Croatia the emphasis is on ownership, not on rent as we have in Vienna, when you are looking at the statistical Zagreb is... different and I think that the question, especially of the Zagreb earthquake, but to a certain extent also in Sisak-Moslavina County, will show this because if it is proposed for example that persons are looking for accommodation in private rent, for example in cities in Sisak-Moslavina County that have been injured, and there are no apartments that are rented then actually such solutions are very difficult [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] that I can be sustainable. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48164	Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48165	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Shimonović, thank you for your answers, but regarding the alleged right of the woman to abortion I would remind you that in this frequently used structure my body is my choice, it means two bodies, but concerning vaccination it might be noticed, my body is my choice, so I wonder how you see, your opinion whether it is worth it to people who do not want to receive the vaccine or can also use it as an argument, my body my choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48166	I think it's actually an interesting philosophical political debate at this point, but it hasn't gone seriously into the legal sphere yet. I wouldn't make that comparison between vaccinations and abortions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48167	No more replicas, as far as I can see, and now it's Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash's turn in front of the Center and Voice Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48168	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney general with advisors, and there are State Secretarys, we have before us the reports of the Advocate General for 3 years 2018, 2019 and 2020, and I must, of course, say what some of the predecessors have already said and something to point out, which is next. There's a reason why we're going to report to the attorney general because we're 8 years old, and now we've got another one, discussing every year. For the simple reason that you must see among other things what changes have taken place within a year, you must see what happened to the recommendations and through this report we see and what our situation in society is. So what's our situation with a series of sectors and a series of activities. What the Ombudsman was saying at the outset, which is that about 20 to 28% of the recommendations were accepted, and 65% of the recommendations that should be accepted and that we really have systems of change. And you saw in the replicas we gave, we're always looking for what the attorney general thinks. So surely she has her own position, but it's important what is, what has come who has objected and in which part of society we see that there are certain disorders. Surely the disorders we have, I will refer there and there will always be interesting for us in 2020, it has happened to us, the whole world, so it has not happened to Croatia, it has happened to the whole world of the corona or Covid-19 that has absolutely put human rights into question. Look at our headquarters decisions as much as we've all had problems with headquarters decisions together, there were the most problems with freedom of movement. I have to remind you of that idea that was to allow tracking the movement through the cell phone. So, the elemental kind of human rights that have been violated, with the fact that we've had an additional earthquake. Exactly, the results of the earthquake and a series of problems we'll have yet to see. There we will, every time we have a report from the attorney general, always touch the subject of protected tenants. So, I've watched for so many years this one sees that the problem of protected tenants is. He's even bigger now because someone who owns the apartment will say, look, I won't rebuild my apartment, I have a protected tenant there I can't get to that apartment. And the protected tenant will say, "Where will I go now?" So, it's a series of things that the earthquake is going to open up and further define and I have to admit that I have to say it honestly and I, when I was in executive power, was then a report by the attorney general and what I saw in the report that I didn't like and I was actually angry at that moment and I thought a check a little bit, so what now, but it was an objective state of what the attorney general saw. Those who complained about it, those who complained about it, and the construction of it, complained about each other. And the lawless builders because they thought they needed something else but also the ones whose illegal construction caused damage to their property. I have to admit and use it met with, you have this lot of dilemmas, so you have this world-famous dilemma, let's say I want to be vaccinated and I want to be vaccinated and I don't want to have a little child, I wouldn't want my child who's a little bit guarded by someone who's not split because it's my right. So there's a series, a series of dilemmas that aren't simple. I'll tell you and that, we expect answers that we can't get, but some answers we can get and we can try. Croatia has not been ready to bring its housing strategy since we have a state since it was based all the time on private property. We have an awful lot of real estate in private, but now this crown and earthquake has shown the following that we have people who will be homeless, that we have people who simply can't pay that basic rent, so we have different categories of people. We are at risk of poverty 65, a third older than 65, and half of them live alone, and these are mainly women. I've had a real chance in life to see different examples that some are acceptable to us, and some are not. One of the great examples of housing policy I saw was in Denmark. So Copenhagen, there every new building that is building, must have a certain number of apartments that the city of Copenhagen buys for, say, a socially endangered population and then for immigrants and then for students, so that you in buildings that are great, that look good, have all the possible categories of society and to that, and through that develop some other, empathy, social inclusion is something else. Are we ready and when we're ready for it, I don't know. I can say the same, one example that is tied up, so I had one, it was going towards the attorney general, people who were complaining because they said that when they bought the apartment they had planned for greenery, and in the meantime the spatial plan had changed, and where there was going to be greenery was going through a spatial plan that was democratically decided, through public debate, through the city council that decided on it, there was no greenery anymore, but there was no other building that came under their nose. So the moment they bought their property they bought with one condition, and in the meantime the system, according to the law, was changed according to the decision-making system. It's the same thing, it's also, the things that the attorney general does. But I'd like to open another topic here. So that's where we open the world-wide themes. We open apart from vaccinations, inoculations, we open up the right to abortion, I was convinced that in 2021 we won't discuss it, but things have changed. I was equally convinced that in 2021 I would not say what you have in the recommendation that the law should prohibit, the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready" which the former Ombudsman had to defend, but we live in a society that has not yet or reopened them. Why did it open them? Why is it that young people who are born and live in Croatia? These are a series of things that need to be regulated and solved by someone else. But I'd go back to ours again, to our old population. These, therefore, we have a population census in nine months and that census will show what we all point to, which is that we have an ever older and older population. This older and older population is poorer, they are all, therefore, approximately 65 years old, a third of them are on the verge of poverty, and now it's opened and it's seen in the time of the crown, the problem of homes for old and retired people. I have to remind you of Minister Beros when the case really happened that many people died in a home in Split during a short period of time, and when asked who was guilty, it was the virus. Okay, the virus was something of a sudden, but it showed a number of other things that we have a problem with homes for seniors and pensioners. They also have the right to contact, the right to live, the right to human contact, and now I'm asking you and asking you a question. It would be good to know how split people are working in nursing homes when we return to vaccination. So our population, over 65 years of age, was first split. They were split in homes. About that, if someone didn't and opposed the cleavage, let him squat in his room and it was his choice. But what about when the staff she's working didn't split up? What's the subject now? So someone who's in a home can't get out, can't use it, can't see their grandchildren, can't see their children, not because he wasn't split up, but because he didn't split up someone else. So that's what they are and I'm sure the 2021 report will certainly be a lot of those things because there are no simple answers. And he doesn't expect anyone to respond to the attorney general, but he expects him to point out the problem, give recommendations, and then the government to read those recommendations and try outs in one part of the solution. Because if the recommendations, say, adopt 50%, I'm sure the next report can open something else on the subject, but we don't open a report and report on the same subject and we don't solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48169	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48170	Your Honor, Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General. Government members, in something bad that reports aren't discussed in time, have some good. It's a good thing we're discussing 3 in 1 because more than that there's an expression that nothing changes and it's not a person, it's a system. When the house is on weak foundations, a window with a beautiful view does not reduce the fear that the house will collapse. One report notes that there is a growing number of complaints, i.e. complaints and questions on which there is no basis for the initiation of the investigation, which confirms that citizens do not have enough information about their rights and do not know who to address when they consider their rights to be violated or feel discriminated, but that the competent authorities should increase their availability and improve communication with citizens through different channels. And I'm familiar with these lost people who call me for all the problems, from house to job, from small municipality to other state. They call because they don't know who to call anymore, because others ignore them or yell at them. I don't blame them when they go astray like I always try to help, so I'm still here, but I'm surprised by the scope and diversity of these requests and instructions. And I conclude, people in the Republic of Croatia don't know their rights. He who finds out what his rights are doesn't know who to turn to to to help him achieve those rights. And it's one of the Croatian phenomena, a state-owned machine, but there's always one missing person who would help, one paper, one stamp. The Advocate General's Office shall accept the complaints of the citizens and shall forward the letters to the national authorities. It is expected that they will respond more quickly and better, but even from this position they suffer with inefficient and apathic administration, we get the answers to the memos, but often beyond the deadlines and after more haste, but they are rarely very shrill and formal, do not essentially answer the questions asked, and sometimes they are even misleading. The rushes are sent to all three reports, which really irritates and discourages. It's already been all the deadlines for the state's bodies to realize that they're there for the citizens, not the other way around. In addition to receiving complaints and sending a letter to the Advocate General, the Ombudsman shall make recommendations to the competent authorities and institutions. The 2020 report points out that there is an increasing percentage of compliance with the recommendations, and it is a peaceable and optimistic conclusion that this can be explained by the fact that HS has not yet discussed the 2018 and 2019 reports. Postponing the debate is not a good message for the authorities to whom recommendations are addressed and reduces efforts to raise the quality of life by more powerful protection of human rights and by suppressing discrimination. This is visible from the number of recommendations accepted in recent years. From the last discussed and accepted report of the 2017 report, as much as 65% of the recommendations were accepted. The 2018 report accepted 26% of the recommendations and the last 20% mentioned. I hope that theory is explained by the percentages, that only delaying the debate in the assembly is the reason for such negligence. If so, bravo for the assembly, it still means something and shame on us that we have such a small realization of the recommendations, that we did not discuss this report every year and let it not happen again. Reports are similar, but not identical. The unfortunate Croats are in 2020 with standard discrimination, disenfranchisement and misery, bringing something completely new to the pandemic. The pandemic control measures have opened up opportunities for new divisions, discrimination, violation of basic human rights, we haven't managed at all, we've left ourselves to the current, and we're only going to be able to look at the situation with greater time and ask ourselves what happened to our heads? For example, the vacancy counsel issued several complaints last May as a result of a decision to ban the place of residence from 23 March to 11 May. The decision to approve passes was not uniform, so they are, for example, At the same time, some members of the household were given passes while others were rejected without explanation. The local staff of the occupiers did not provide an explanation for their decision after repeated haste, and the problem was resolved only by removing the passes. One more bravo for us. So the problem is solved only when there were no more problems, and that makes many institutions, persons and laws too high. We can all just sit back and wait for it to pass. The difference between instructions, recommendations and legal obligations has been deleted along the way. It was only a stubborn citizen who wrote to the occupier asking for intervention and explanation, but we believe that by 2021 he gave up and accepted a new, new normal. The occupier's attorney is the authority of HS, through her work she sees an x-ray of violations of the rights of citizens and ineffectiveness of the system. Reports are clear and comprehensive, the implementation of recommendations very fast for which I do not blame the attorney general, the guilty council, the guilty Office for Government legislation, the guilty Committee on Legislatives, the guilty ministers who do not see the whole, but look at the problems in a straight line instead of looking at the laws as a matter that is not insulated on the case, but something comprehensively inter-resort. Therefore, I ask publicly, does it make sense for this HS to meet the intentions of the executive government, government and ministries, and it is not ready or unwilling to comply with its mandater's mechanisms and recommendations to urgently change bad laws with proven adverse consequences for citizens through discrimination, exploitation, non-compliance, human rights violations, legal disorder? I know you're going to be Attorney General in 2021. have a lot of enquiries and complaints from the pensioners about paying the covid supplement. Because now I'm the one who didn't eat onion or onion or smell in formulating the government's decision asking why, why, why? Why are those who have six months left out? An internship in another country and only receiving a Croatian pension? Why did the supplement not receive citizens living in Croatia who are receiving pensions from neighbouring countries? Aren't they socially endangered in this country and aren't they Croatian citizens? Why do people from 90 years of age have to give during the pandemic requirements in HZMO if they are receiving for example. 50 euros abroad? Can't all the data banks, the OIB, the tax administration, HZMO and exchange data with foreign insurance? Yeah, you'll have to deal with it because you're working fast, without looking at the whole situation, primordial, populist, and then citizens suffer, not consume their rights, but harass them. And finally, I express my deep dissent with today's statement here in the assembly that there should be a bridge of cooperation between both the state institutions and the attorney general. She's our authority. So, the ministries can challenge the recommendations always, but they have to be respected, she's the authority of the legislative authority and they all have to understand it, there's no we're all the same task, it's 3 pillars of government Thank you, and I want the attorney general a lot of success in future work. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48171	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. Yes, of course, now esteemed Attorney General Tena Simonović Einwalter will say something, too, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48172	That's how I kept going from the beginning. In connection with what MP Mrak-Taritash said and the decisions of the headquarters, the representative of Hrelja also mentioned, in relation to the freedom of movement or the ban on leaving the place of residence, the decision on passes, we are still conducting certain individual procedures, and here is one specifically related to potential discrimination based on faith. As far as protected tenants are concerned, yes, the fact is that this is a very difficult question that I don't think will be solved as quickly and as easily as before, we're being led here by the right and primarily always by a decision... European Court of Human Rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about what Mrs. Devereaux said. Mrak-Taritash, when she was in executive power, looked differently at the recommendations of the attorney general than when she was a parliamentary representative. In opposition, I would say that I am glad to hear that perspective because it always seems to me that these reports are like a kind of systematic review that is uncomfortable when you are the ones being referred to, and I would say the criticism, that, which should be constructive but the recommendations actually serve that then those to whom they are directed, decide whether they will act or not, and that is exactly what the representative of the Hrelja has now pointed out. The ministries can, of course, dispute the recommendations and certainly not implement all the recommendations. If you had a situation to implement 100% of the institution's recommendations or any independent defence institutions, my view would be that it is very likely not to do its job ideally. One part of the dispute will always exist and that's quite all right. And quite certain that one part is also in the domain of political decisions. As for the issue "For Home Ready" that is repeated, I decided to keep the final speech actually for this issue the implementation of the recommendations and voting relations, whether or not to receive knowledge, adoption or refusal from the perspective of the efficiency of the institution, and then I will answer that. I think it's a question that has historical, political and legal aspects. My part is this legal and I see it as a matter of legal certainty. It is my view that at this point, it is necessary to regulate the issue differently because it is not clear to citizens what the current legal situation is about. As for the rights of the elderly and living in the homes of the elderly, yes, all the time we received complaints exactly as they were stressed and unfortunately, from one year to another some topics are repeated, I am glad that the representative of Hrelja found something positive in the fact that three reports were discussed together, I tried to point out in the opening speech. This if something is positive, then it's allowing you to look at trends and unfortunately one of the trends is that the changes are quite slow. As for the increase in the number of complaints, I'd say that's not such a simple question. I don't think an increase in the number of complaints is the main objective from the perspective of this institution to show that we are important, important or so on. but also the quality of these complaints. So, complaints where the institution isn't in charge, they're not really complaints where we can change things, so that's another question I'm thinking about working on. When you receive a complaint as parliamentary deputies, if the institution that I am headed can help in accordance with its competences, I invite you to forward it to us in a strong way. As far as the COVID supplement is concerned, what you've been talking about, we're already getting complaints like that. Compared to your question whether this Croatian Parliament makes sense, I would say, I am quite surprised to hear that, I expected a lot more questions about whether it makes sense for the institution of the Ombudsman, it is interesting to hear that a parliamentary representative puts it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48173	Thank you very much. Please stay, we have two replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48174	Dear Advocates, I will ask you one principle question because I notice, in general, the work of all the counselors, the ambiguity of the principled attitude towards acting on the one hand in monitoring the quality of law enforcement, so implementation of the protection of human rights and the legislative framework in practice, the protection of citizens and, on the other, legislative activists, so to seek to amend certain legal frameworks. Because if you are not just going to seek to follow the existing legal framework, but here you are now talking about either "For Home Ready" and what you will assume further, that something needs to be changed, then you potentially come to the danger that the same is expected of you in other areas where a legal step can be made to protect citizens' rights, from law enforcement laws and beyond. Or to charge you with ideologies or partial use of legislative activists. Where do you see the role of the attorney general?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48175	Thank you. A response from the esteemed attorney general, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48176	Well, I think this is an excellent topic. In my court, the role of the institution is both, therefore, to monitor the application of existing rules and to propose amendments to existing regulations or to adopt new regulations. Why am I saying that? So, here, let's say, this morning on the Committee on the Environment, we discussed whether we should be satisfied with when something is declared legal, but actually citizens' rights are still violated. Of course not, therefore, the legal or illegal work of the state administration body is in the jurisdiction of this institution when it works under the Law on the Ombudsman under the Ombudsman's mandate, but when it works in the protection of human rights, it is necessary to move on. Sometimes what is legal is not satisfactory, and then proposing amendments to the rules is something that is within the jurisdiction of these institutions, especially in this area of protection of human rights. In doing so, we need to keep in mind that we are one wheel in the system. It is a fine balance and I never want to forget what is the role of executive authority and which is the role of you as parliamentary representatives and legislative authorities in this process. And that's what I think we should discuss more when we talk about the counsel's recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48177	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48178	Your Honorary Attorney, this House has only you as an authority and has this channel to get feedback from citizens, from complaints from citizens that are right and wrong. You write recommendations, so cooperation with bodies is possible through cooperation with the Legislative Committee in this House. No one prevents us from writing on the Committee amendments and additions to the law, but we don't. That's why after so many years here I'm so critical of it, what I'm saying is that, I'd like tomorrow's reports to have as little complaints as possible, and as many recommendations and amendments made to the law as possible. And as for this last one, do you accept the report. I have no dilemmas, the HSS and HSU Club will vote for the reports as they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48179	The esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48180	I don't really have much to comment on here except that, that's also the difference between the institution of the attorney general and the special prosecutor, this close relationship with parliament is something that I think is important and what needs to be nurtured, and that's why I'm glad you recognize the role of the institution that it represents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48181	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48182	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, the attorney general, the representatives of the ministries. I don't see anyone from the Department of Health here, so I'm gonna talk about health care, so I guess somebody's gonna pass it on to them. Since a number of objections and recommendations made by the Ombudsman are being made through all three years, I will start with the 2020 Report, which most of the complaints received was just for the area of health, 328, even though in 2019 it was also about health care by the number of complaints of citizens, 282. The fact is that the coronavirus pandemic has further deepened and demonstrated a number of weaknesses in our healthcare system, including lack of staff, debt to wholesalerry, consequent lack of medication, indifference and inequality in the financing of institutions, while the consequences of non-investment in institutions were clearly visible after the earthquake. All this reflects on the increasing number of complaints of citizens, but also the dissatisfaction of us workers in the health system. Unlike 2018, 2019, when the government was taxing itself on at least most of the recommendations made by the Ombudsman, this was missing in 2020, namely, they only referred to the ban on employment and non-fulfilment of job systematization, which I must immediately say is inadmissible because, in particular, in the pandemic, there has been a lack of health care professionals and, in addition, they have announced that the National Strategy for the Development of Mental Health that we have been waiting for several years. With regard to the employment of specific health care professionals who have to carry out a traineeship, and I know that they have also contacted the occupier, it has long been necessary to address the problem at last. You know, I was actively involved in this myself, and we finally experienced in 2021, and here, 2,000 quotas for trainees, last year was 170, but of course it's not going smoothly with us, so the quotas that we've been set up don't meet the real needs on the ground, and that's why we're asking the Ministry to make a change in quotas because we're going to talk again about discrimination. I asked a question in the replica about the paliativism, why it did not specifically refer to 2020, however, here we heard the reason of the attorney general, the fact that the palatable needs further improvement and improvement of the system itself, so as soon as possible to organise adequate palatable care that would respond to the needs of patients and their families, which is still not the case at present. I remind you that a palitative patient is not just an elderly patient, so it's all of them who have incur incurable diseases regardless of age. In 2019, along with 363 paliative beds in hospitals, several additional coordinators and 7 additional mobile paliative teams were agreed, however, the public health service network forecasts a total of 83 paliable beds in health care stations. Despite the fact that a total of 25 health homes still asked the Ministry of Health for recognition of these palitative beds in 2018, only, behold, the Split-Dalmatia County, or their home of health, managed to arrange palitative beds. So, in addition to this slow development of palitative care, the big problem is really on the ground, which patients and their families within hours still have as much help as mobile palitative teams, however, the problem is after working time when they really have nowhere to turn but then they call this, or the competent doctors, or more, to emergency medical attention. Additional sublaws should also regulate the issue of providing palitative care in social care institutions or homes for older and powerless, as this is not yet resolved. From this point on, the teams, let's say, the Emergency Medicine Department, in this report, even say 40% of the services that are not urgent. Also in emergency hospital receptions so-called OHBP categories 4 and 5 non-emergency patients have 70%. And can we blame our patients for that? Well we can't, the system is actually like that, going where I can get a favor including a palitative one. Mobile paliative teams consist of a doctor and nurse, however, they should also be formed with a social worker and psychologist. Also a major problem is that an insufficient network of health care teams, especially primary healthcare, is also an emergency medical network. When compared to 2018 and 2020 We're still very cascaded, very much missing and family medicine, pediatrics, gynecology, dental medicine, so there's really gonna be a lot of work here for our patients to have as much health care as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48183	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48184	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maric. You were talking about a network of health care teams that are actually insufficient and inadequate. In your opinion, does the Government and other public authorities work enough on this issue and what would you do in that case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48185	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48186	Well, thanks, because of the shortness of time, man can't say everything, but here's when I was looking at the 2018-20 report, so when you're looking at primary health care, then there's still more teams missing from 2018, too for pediatrics. Something a little better with dental health care, but there are still 205 teams missing, as well as gynecology 58 teams. And now we've had a recent National Recovery Plan where it's said that there's 500 million kunas will go to primary health care, so emergency medicine, pediatrics, gynecology for calling specializations. We all know how long it takes for one doctor to finish the specialization for five years, so it means 2018. It was known how many teams were missing, and it was too slow to actually explore specializations. I think there will have to be a state involved more actively in calling specializations, not just waiting for units of local self-government, so I'm going to need that central calling specialization.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48187	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maric. I would like to agree on the problem of the paliatical health care that Croatia is somewhat lagging behind. You have been talking about the problem of lack of healthcare professionals, which is the problem of all EU countries, and those who have much more resources single out for the health system, and you seem a little too critical, perhaps in light of the still unfinished local elections. So what needs to be invested in, and that is also the message of the covid epidemic is strengthening the public health system, primarily prevention. There is much more to be said in Croatia, but as far as diagnostics and treatment is concerned, despite the problems and the uneven distribution of the situation related to the covid epidemic, the Croatian health system is functional despite all the problems that are happening, and yet again in the light of the compatibility with other EU Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48189	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48190	Thank you very much. Dear fellow doctor. I agree with everything except this unnecessary remark about local elections. You know very well, and I think colleagues can agree that I'm always very objective and fair in my discussions, so let you local elections on it now do nothing at all and I didn't speak in terms of local choices, I mean sucks. But I agree that there is a need to strengthen prevention, and I agree that what I said and in the replica need not only to speak about patients' rights but also their obligations. So, teach them, educate them, provide them with preventive checks, set up a network and primary health care and in the hospital system's final line, because you know there's an unbalanced deployment of teams and emergency and primary medicine and family medicine, even in the City of Zagreb, let alone where rural areas, islands, therefore unbalanced regional development is our problem, and I think we'll all be together, and that's what I keep saying is that health is a supersededed issue, we have to put our heads together if we want to improve the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48191	The next individual debate will be respected MPs Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48192	In this individual debate, I will deepen some of the things that I spoke about earlier on behalf of the club and list some more information from this report that I think is telling us something about the current state and the functioning of the Attorney General's Office and possible improvements. The first thing we talked about, which was the way the earthquake was treated, and I'm not going to go in there any further, since the D.A. has agreed that this one recommendation is not enough and that more needs to be done with regard to the protection of human rights, the rights of our citizens, given their impact on the earthquake. What I see here as a problem and what I will remind myself is given this year and what it brought to an end last year and the beginning of this year and the Sisak-Moslavina County, that we need to take good care of, and that is precisely in the domain of the staff of the Ombudsman, that there is no breach of the Constitution and that the principles of equality and social justice apply to all Croatian citizens, that there is no situation for us, that because the disaster has not been declared even in time in assisted areas which should be areas of special state concern there for poor citizens, and even in other parts of Croatia, their construction reconstruction is not financed in a 100% share unlike some and richer parts simply because, in that case, Sisak was specifically pre-election, so it could be calculated and it was eventually classified as this arbitration criteria of declaring a disaster in 100% of restoration. I see here a great task of the attorney's work, especially if it goes in the direction of this legislative activism. In this regard, the most complex issue when we talk about the work of the Ombudsman seems to me right now to find this fine nuance between following the respect of the law, and we always have shortcomings because, first of all, what the citizens are talking about in the part in which they are right in their address is the violation of their rights and on the other hand of this legislative activism. If it enters the scope of legislative activation, which may be desirable, you are always at risk of doing so only in some matters or in part, and then being subsequently accused of ideologicalizing your sector. Since the Office of the Public Prosecutor may be the most important office for our citizens, because the extended hand of HS, which only has a direct link and the possibility of practical application of the legislative framework for our citizens, is the most difficult question in view of the previous experience of the former Ombudsman, to find the right measure and where we are just waiting to see what the current Ombudsman will show us. No matter how ideologically it was committed, and all of us humans have the right to our worldview, I hope it will not interfere with the impartial application of rights and the fight for equality rights for all Croatian citizens regardless of what their views on the world and life were. As far as this part of the recommendation is concerned, what I see as a problem of general recommendations that I have warned about before, giving concrete examples of syntagms such as reasonable deadlines and speeches about the need to offer concrete and effective measures for waiting lists, as we all know from before, is impossible to monitor the implementation of general measures. How do you say that a measure has been adopted or rejected to ensure, within a reasonable period, the provision of health care services to all citizens? It can always be accepted in view of the interpretation of what it understands or rejects. So, when I point out the problem of general measures, I am not only doing this because I would like more specific measures, but also because it is impossible to follow the effect of the attorney general's work, and then we come up with problems only for the purpose of institutions which are precisely why they have to make clear and unambiguous recommendations in order to keep their work verifiable, and not only to serve as decorations as something that may or may not be, as we have seen, that reports so far have not been accepted or discussed in HS, and the office has continued to exist and has been financed further. For time's sake, I'll stop here now, so we can move on in replicas or some other opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48193	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Nina Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48194	Thank you. Honorable MPs. You were talking about the attorney's legislative activation, what I'm missing in this situation is that the pandemics of the coronary virus and the result of the earthquake are more of that kind of activism, more of a suggestion. I'd like to say that there's been some talk that we've put people in containers that are air-tight and space already in the middle of the medium-term extremely destructive to the health of what's been said very little, and the impression is that there's a roof over their heads that's been taken care of. Also, this fact that of the 264 pages, only 10 speak about the 2020 Coronal virus and that we have not received a special report on the state of human rights in the crown pandemic but the impact of climate change on human rights in Croatia 2020. testifys about the lack of focus on the rights of real burning human rights issues in Croatia at least in that year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48195	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48196	It is clear from the public defender's report that the biggest problems of Croatian citizens are fundamental, they are health care and employment relations, noting that in a comparative analysis in 2019 compared to 2020, we have a decline in complaints on the principle of discrimination, and growth is precisely a complaint based on the principle of health and employment. And these are the questions that we want to recognize the attorney general's work and the work of the previous lawyer when we question him precisely because he was not recognized in the general public through fighting for these problems of Croatian citizens but through fighting for other problems. Note that the institution in Croatia is more famous than in the rest of Europe, which we say is something positive, but the question is what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48197	The Republic has a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48198	Dear Representative Selak Rasdic. I'll give you a review of the way you referred to these reports today. The fact that three reports are not discussed in due time in HS does not say anything at all about the work of the Advocate General, neither the former nor the current one, nor the work of the office, talks primarily about the current government and the parliamentary majority in this HS. As for your repeated criticisms and how you personally and the entire political options that you advocate that the report is politicised, that there are a lot of ideologies in it that you disagree with, I also believe that it represents a single attack not only on an independent institution but also on constitutional freedoms and rights as outlined in the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I think you should stop with that kind of practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48199	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48200	My colleague Oreshkovic made me laugh this replica of yours. I'm sorry that you didn't listen to my report on behalf of the club, dialogue with the D.A., and that you weren't able to hear or hear what I'm talking about right now because all of what I've been saying here has nothing to do with this remark that you've given me. Unless you were the sole purpose of criticizing criticism doing as is the case or trying to demonstrate some kind of personal call for independence and struggle for the independence of the institution, at the expense of the unwarranted and unargumented and incorrect criticism of the speech of parliamentary representatives, specifically me and then the people of my club. I'm sorry, but you didn't say what it had to do with what I put out here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48201	The next debate will be the respected advocates of Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, ma'am. Attorney General, representatives of the government. Here's what I'm going to say is about the three reports prepared by the former staff attorney, so I don't want the current attorney general to think of some of my views as a criticism of his own account because there's a period ahead of her that we're just going to evaluate. Any freedom can go to that border that does not endanger the freedom of another but violent entry into the church before Easter, the appointment of Jesus to the Jewish zombie and other ugly names, the invitation to the liquidation of priests and to the burning of the church, the comparison of Catholic Croatia with the Islamic state, hate speech and impatience towards everything that is Catholic, constitutes an attack on religious freedoms which are at the very heart of human rights, European cultures, their roots and identity. Art. 18. The general declaration of human rights is the most influential confirmation of religious freedom of human history and the three freedoms guaranteed, freedom of thought, conscience and religion are so unique because it is impossible to deny, overcome or destroy them. In recent years, there have been growing numbers of anti-Christian attacks in Europe but also in Croatia, whether it is vandalism at church facilities and their damage or about intolerance and restrictions on freedom of speech, freedom of belief, freedom of gathering for believers, such attacks from year to year are growing. Although publications can be found on the subject in the media, the reaction of competent institutions is mostly lagging behind and the question is whether any state institutions respect religious freedoms in Croatia, and is it reporting? What was the police lawyer who was the guardian of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination but who, according to the Law on the Ombudsman, was to react? What is the criterion under which so far - far occupier’s attorney has responded to certain publications in the media on human rights violations? Why did none of the 85 cases the media wrote about in 2020, which refers to violations of religious freedoms, attacks against priests and believers and 30 defilements of the churches, draw the attention of the attorney general? On my request by the Advocate General's Office on the number of reports relating to discrimination on the basis of faith, which belonged to those who spoke to the office, so to the statistics the office should lead according to the law, how many indictments were filed, criminal and criminal charges, I did not get an adequate and satisfactory answer. It is clear that all three reports by the Ombudsman show in some way that she has called on her work, and this is seen from the recommendations, to abolish her conscience and restrict religious freedoms, which is in fact contrary to her legally prescribed task, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and international conventions. And it is clear that it has not consistently done its job entrusted in that segment and that there is no statistics on human rights violations of freedom of religion and that there is no communication between the Office of the Attorney General and the Ministry of Justice in that segment. I therefore expect this to change in the new reporting period and also to change the approach to this topic and to approach it with due attention. As the OSCE rightly recommended in 2011 its resolution on the prevention of intolerance and discrimination against Christians in the OSCE area, a public debate on the intolerance and discrimination of Christians is launched and Christian rights are ensured for full participation in public life. I would like the following instructions from the OSCE and through the Croatian institutions to identify the dangers arising from the restriction of religious freedoms which result in abuse, intimidation and discrimination. Religious freedoms are the cornerstone of human rights, and therefore we cannot passively observe growing intolerance and discrimination towards the believers in Croatia. I expect the attorney general to replace in his future work the asymmetric approach to protecting human rights with activities that will be directed towards protecting all equally, as well as its legal and constitutional obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48203	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48204	So it was terrifying to listen to you with the impression that this would cause a number of controversy again, that notorious amount of nonsense you said, it's really hard, it's hard to try. So, we're talking about 2021, we're talking about a state where citizens don't trust institutions, we're talking about reports that citizens don't have access to justice, we're talking about the miserable separations for a system of free legal aid, we're talking about a growing number of citizens at risk of poverty, we're talking about a failure of the social security system, we don't have homes for older people and we don't have homes in need, we don't have a system of supervision of private institutions where we've had deaths because people didn't care enough, and you're talking about the persecution of Christians. Really?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48205	Dear Representative Oreskovic, I give you a warning for insulting the MP, you cannot and must not say that someone is talking nonsense, you can think it, but you must not and you cannot say it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48206	My freedom of speech includes saying that someone's talking nonsense. Constitutional law, the right guaranteed by the Rules of Procedure, and that is definitely not the reason for the warning. It is my opinion that the words spoken by Mrs. Mariana Petir is notorious nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48207	I'm asking you nicely, you've been warned, don't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48208	You can do the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48209	Dear Representative Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48210	Thank you very much. So unlike counterpart Oreshkovic, who thinks he knows everything about all of this, there is no preparation for any debate and does not read the report but is eternally critical of the government and offers no solution. I have read these reports, and I know the responsibilities of the attorney general, and one of these responsibilities is the protection of fundamental and fundamental human rights, one of these rights is the right to freedom of religion. Since we live in a country where 86% of citizens were declared Catholic, and they feel that they are constantly under pressure, attacks, mocking them through the media, which is witnessed by numerous inscriptions. If the desecrations of the churches occur, if they are, for example, the recipients who were particularly affected last year felt as someone who was discriminated against because everyone else expressed a desire to appeal to the conscience, and because of the actions of the Ombudsman and some activities of certain associations, it was not possible for them, then it is my duty to talk about it whether it was nonsense or whether you were interested or not because you are not the subject of interest here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48211	Thank you very much. I apologize to MPs Selak Rasdic, I didn't see her do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48212	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. Indeed, colleague Oreshković, this amount of ideological blindness that has no connection with the centre and a grudge against freedom of speech and the choice of parliamentary representatives who have the right to be critical and imagine in democratic Croatia talking about the rights of believers to come from your mouth is a disgrace to the work of this respected home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48213	Okay, I gave my colleague Oreshkovic a warning, therefore, this one is a bit declassified. And we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure from a respected representative of the Habian, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48214	Thank you very much, Vice President. Also an injury. 238.St. 1th, indent 5th and indent 6th, so the demeaning of a respected parliamentary representative, but also the deviation from some general rules in this HS. So it's amazing to me, then, that a colleague resents the fact that, in his own debate, a single downhill is being held on one segment of the report. So, as far as I know, this report also covers a chapter of religious freedom and the right to religion, I don't see what the problem is and why it bothers you so much, I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48215	Okay, fellow Habib, there was no need for that intervention, as I said I was already this one as chairman had my own intervention. Dear Representative Oreshkovic, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48216	Thank you, Chairman. A colleague named Petyr has been injured by an article. 238, she insulted me by saying I hadn't read the report. Now I don't know if you have any supernatural abilities, so do you know who reads or doesn't read? And since we're on our way to breaking the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to repeat what happened during the morning, which is that my colleague Zekanovic said that a lot of things are abnormal, so I'm asking the question of how one parliamentary representative is allowed to talk about what's abnormal or not, and the injury is, and I get a warning when I say that one parliamentary representative is talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48217	Thank you very much. You will now receive a second reminder of this fundamental article. The 240th century, because it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to stop playing the pseudo-injurious game of the Rules of Procedure, this one. And as I appeal to communication that will be at the right level regardless of ideological, political and other differences and whatever someone thinks about someone, I ask you nicely to be at the level that is appropriate to this home. The Republic has a respected representative, Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The aggression that some people express when it comes to topics that may be personally unacceptable to them, I would say that I'm surprised if it is, but the seriousness and the decency of it requires me not to comment on it. What I would say, therefore, in the context of the debate between my colleague Petir, on the one hand, is that Croatia is an example of multiculturalism, a high level of inter-religious dialogue, a European path of Islam and can be an example of other EU member states, it is a positive side that is happening in Croatia, unfortunately it has this negative side, regardless of what is kind of paradoxical, given that most of the population of the Republic of Croatia declares itself to Christians, but I think it is worth mentioning and that it should also be spoken of.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48219	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48220	Thank you, Agent Cellic, for this replica, I agree with you. I think it is important to talk about all human rights, to study how they are respected and to insist that they are consistently protected not only because of our law and constitution but also because of international conventions. Even today, we see that there is a need to talk about freedom of religion because if one MP allows herself to be mocked here by another parliamentary representative who warns of something that is the content of this report and that it is Mrs. Oreshkovic read the report then she'd know it was the content of the report, so she wouldn't say things like this here. It just shows us how alarming it is because the media is writing about it, there are numerous comments that no one looks back on. When human rights associations ask the competent institutions for information as far as human rights violations have taken place in relation to freedom of religion, no one has such information. I think it's important to talk about it and to warn that all human rights must be consistently protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48221	Thank you. There is also a respected representative, Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48222	Thank you. I can agree, of course, with you that religious discrimination is one of the problems that we face in general in the field of discrimination and so that each individual case is to be solved. However, the report concerns systemic cases of discrimination or discrimination at systemic level. I hope you will agree with me that Catholics in Croatia are not systematically discriminated against. We can have individual cases, but we certainly can't talk about systemic discrimination. When we talk about discrimination against Christians, I think we can talk about Orthodox Christians in Croatia who are very often and systematically discriminated against. And as for your concerns, what really bothered me in your speech is that you as a member of the majority haven't reacted in the last three years and asked the government to keep these reports here so that we can discuss it and that you can say what we said, so we could react in time and maybe have a more complete report on [[Intruder: Thank you.]] religious discrimination. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48223	Honorable representative, before responding, respected representative Selak Rasudic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please. [[Employee: Thank you very much, very much....]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48224	Art. 238, it seems to me that we're demeaning each other again because we're doing what someone should or shouldn't be doing. So, if there is discrimination on the principle of faith and religion, then this can be discussed in HS. Also, speaking of one discrimination does not mean excluding other discrimination on the principle of another religion because it was not spoken of. Freedom of speech also means being able to choose the subject considered important by the speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48225	Thank you. It was a replica, it wasn't... Please, let's not yell from the scene. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It wasn't, it was a replica, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm telling you a warning, and the answer of the respected representative Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48226	Thank you very much. My colleague Bencic, for 5 years as a representative in the EU, I addressed the issue of freedom of faith and religion, and I received a prize from Pakistan, given that I was particularly committed to this topic and the rights of religious freedoms in Pakistan. For eight months, like you, I've been a representative at HS, still working on this subject, as I said in my speech, asking for information from the authorities. What I got in response, I'm not happy, and that's what I addressed here today. Since there is no statistical data that should be sent to me from the Office of the Public Attorney's Office, because the Office is gone, then I gave myself the effort and I studied what the media published about it and on the basis of media publications, I found 85 cases in 2020 that I was talking about, and also found that about 30 churches had been defiled. If that's normal and acceptable to you, I'm not and I won't be stopped by anyone with my ideological outbursts here to talk about things that are unacceptable and which are the main cornerstone of human rights violations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48227	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Honorable representative Bencic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48228	Art. 238, this was really an insult because I have to say, in no word did I say it was small or that it was nothing, so if you listened to me very carefully, I just said, on the basis of individual cases, each of them should be dealt with, even in cases like these that you counted, that they should have been solved. That's what I said, not that it doesn't mean anything. So it really wasn't fair of you, my colleague, to twist my words in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48229	Well, you know that it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning, I'm asking you nicely, let's not abuse the institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, to replicate, we have the opportunity to report in an individual debate, to speak in conclusion, to have a series of options, let's not do that. It's tearing everybody down. The Republic has a respected representative, Zmajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48230	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Petir, you spoke today and referred to the report prepared by the former Ombudsman, and also, you spoke here about your personal experience that asked a question about a violation of religious freedom for which you never received a reply from that institution or the Office of the Attorney General, so I ask you for your comment here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48231	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48232	Thank you very much, MP Zmajić, for your replica. I have asked questions that I received two days ago an unsatisfactory answer that results in the fact that the attorney general does not have information that I felt should be kept in mind by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, for which she is an authorised body, and also by the basis of the Law on the Ombudsman. My fundamental question is, in fact, how does the attorney general decide to react in certain cases that have some media visibility, and if I found 85 cases that are quite serious violations of religious freedoms, then I can't believe that it went under the work and the Office of the Attorney General, and it hasn't responded to them, and I'm only saying that for 2020. So my exposure went in that sense that this practice of ignoring this The human rights category should be amended in the next period. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48233	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed Ombudsman Tena Simonović Einwalter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48234	Thank you. I'm going to start with a brief, health-related system, and I agree with everything spoken about the insufficient number of healthcare professionals, the fill-up of the network, as I was saying in the opening speech, about the presentation of the representative Rasudiæ, I think that, in relation to the earthquakes and the consequences of human rights that are currently suffering the victims of both earthquakes, we should do more and all together. As for the monitoring and compliance of laws or legislative activation, I would say that I remain in what I have said before, monitoring the respect of the law is absolutely the role of this institution and falls under the Ombudsman's mandate. While not talking about legislative activation, I certainly believe that there should also be recommendations in the reports concerning amending the rules, I would like to stress again that I would like to distinguish what the role of the Ombudsman, the Government and the Croatian Parliament are in terms of lawmaking. The election of the Ombudsman's theme is something that many MPs have so far shown themselves about and I will say that since this institution has 5 mandates, I have said by several laws that we are doing 60 different areas, the topic is so much that it is absolutely impossible to deal with absolutely everything in the media. So what's our legal obligation is to deal with what we get as complaints about what's in the media and initiate proceedings on our own initiative, it's in the domain of deciding the attorney general in accordance with Article. Seven. A law on the occupier's staff, which says that the occupier is independent and independent in his work and no one can give him orders and instructions. So it's a strategic theme selection. As for monitoring the implementation and recommendations, I would say that this is a very important issue that I think we need to discuss even more, the Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities on the basis of the still applicable government regulation, but it is a mechanism that was actually not good enough and not effective enough because it took too much time and too many years. So I don't think the problem is that the government's office doesn't do it anymore, I don't think it was a well-designed mechanism and you need to think about any better. As these special reports, pandemics and earthquakes as I said, the pandemic is still going on, earthquake problems, I believe it will take some more time, I believe that I will not be able to do these special reports during this year, but you will certainly find the topic of pandemic and earthquakes in the 2021 report. As for the right to measure, to repeat, I have already said this before, I think that this is a subject which is in the mandate of this institution, unquestionably, by several terms, as regards the Ombudsman's right of religious communities, the right to believe as a national human rights institution and as regards discrimination on the basis of faith and belief, in relation to a letter that I have recently replied to you, I must say that it is drawn up with a lot of effort, respect and you have received absolutely all the information, as far as I am concerned, that answer can be either me or you, so let everyone see what you have received. So, I am seriously experiencing absolutely all topics in jurisdiction, including the topic of faith, but I would also like to say that on the subject of faith this institution is getting very few complaints, while actively trying to raise the number of complaints by opening cases on our own initiative, we write to all churches and religious communities registered in the religious community records in the Republic of Croatia, many of them do not respond to us, we hold meetings with religious communities. So, I also have to say that it's not true that the institution in the past has advocated abolishing the call for conscience but has troubled the collective appeal of conscience, and here I will repeat what I said earlier, that I think that there is a balance between women's rights and the rights of health care professionals to appeal to conscience. There you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48235	We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. The attorney general, so you've confirmed that the attorney general himself chooses the topics he recognizes in the media as important, so you've only confirmed what I said, that this topic that I was talking about was freedom of faith and religion, regardless of many cases, was not important. And I've expressed hope that he'll get into your focus after all. I said that you answered my question two days ago but the content of that answer does not contain the information I asked for, probably because you do not have them, and I believe that by virtue of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on the Ombudsman, you should have that information. If you don't have them and you need them legally because you're an authorized body, it confirms again my son-in-law that this subject has obviously not been approached with sufficient attention. And when we talk about the appeal of conscience, it's exactly in the report that the attorney general, so in his recommendation, calls for a restriction on the right to appeal of conscience, which I consider to be discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48237	The esteemed attorney general, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48238	I repeat, the topic is important, however, because of everything that is in the media, in the Republic of Croatia, and I think you are aware of how much information and how fast it is spinning, some strategic choices should be made. As for the memo you received, I would like you to explain in more detail exactly what data you did not receive, which you should have received under the law, namely the statistics we must keep under the law, we have provided you. What you are told in the memo is that a more detailed number that is not contained in the database, which would include a review of the file, is not able to work since the archives of the institution are currently in the building in the square of Croatian giants with a red label that is specified for renovation and therefore we are not able to fill in this additional step that we would otherwise very much like to take. As soon as the conditions for moving that archive are met, we can approach that, but I repeat, I take this question seriously, but I also think it's in the domain of the attorney general. have some sort of a different criterion than individual representatives on the selection of topics. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48239	The esteemed representative of Glamuzina has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48240	Attorney General, please explain to me only everyone else's right to believe or not to believe someone else's right. Is the greater violation of the right to defile a religious institution, church, or defile the rights of a child who has been defiled in a school institution because he does not go to religious school?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48241	We have before you answer, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48242	Art. In 238, I truly view this as a demeaning of parliamentary representatives because of one senseless polarization as if one who believes does not love children or so on. Breaking any rights on either side is not a question of competition, if we break one, not to violate the other, or if we break one more or if we break another. We must not violate anyone's rights. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48243	Dear Representative Selak Rasdic, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is clear to you, I am your foundation. The 240th paragraph of the 1st sentence, by taking away words, is theoretically of course, but the next time will be to take away the words until the end of the debate, so please do not abuse the institution. Dear Representative Glamuzine, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48244	Thank you. 238, a colleague, thank you, I didn't ask you anything, I asked the D.A., I asked my line in the form of a question, I didn't say anything, so I don't know what you found offensive, I'm sorry if I offended you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48245	Well, I have to admit, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, but it wasn't necessary to say, well. The answer of the esteemed attorney, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48246	On the one hand again we, Art. 3. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination requires that I draw attention to the jurisdiction of the Special Advocate, the Ombudsman for children related to the violation of the rights of the child, which is within the scope of that Advocate General or the institution. I have to say that I'm not inclined to make a statement in principle whether there is a worse violation of the right of children or a violation of the right of believers, I think that every case should be looked at in all its facts, but I'd be very happy if we could discuss a more detailed case of this or some other occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48247	There is also a respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48248	Thank you. Your Honor, you also mentioned age discrimination as one of the important problems in your report. I'd ask you about the violence against the elderly. The data for 2019 are combined. that it is 247 victims of older age, and in 2020 that number increased to 314, of which is 216 female and 98 is male. In addition to neglect as particularly isolated according to the Ministry's data, how you singled out as a form of violence, which is 266 cases in 2019. The report does not specify particular forms of supervision of older people, which I consider particularly important in the part of financial abuse, and on the trail and conclusion of the Life and Life Restraint Treaty. So my question to you is about life support or the conclusion of a life support agreement, do you feel that these are to be banned from future assets that are immediately passed on to the maintenance provider, which threatens the maintenance recipients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48249	The esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48250	Thank you very much. Yes, violence against the elderly is one issue that this institution has been dealing with for years. I think it's extremely good that just by our advocacy, the neglect of older people has been introduced into the Law on the Protection of Family Violence. I think in this older person, of course, that they can suffer both physical and psychological and sexual violence, including the economic violence you speak of, as well as neglect that usually involves the inaction of the people you should care about and care about. Compared to the question of these contracts, yes, it was already about the register. I think the register is a good idea because until we know what contract number is, we can't actually adequately consider how to prevent abuses. There are a number of questions, one question is, should we limit the number of contracts that one person can make with several other persons? The question arises whether such contracts should be further restricted in terms of professions in relation to existing restrictions in order to avoid abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48251	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A few words in my own name, I spoke for the club, but I'd like to share some, some thoughts with you. So I can't mention again that it's a shame to discuss almost five years, a five-year report, not an annual report from our commissioner. And again, I must say that it only shows how much the ruling majority, HDZ, cares about protecting the human rights of our citizens, or how much they don't care. And the purpose of the report is to discuss it periodically annually in order to strengthen them and to monitor the implementation of the recommendations because that's the point at the end of the day. If you look at the recommendations, and I believe that, given by the attorney general, most of them don't require a lot of resources, requires a little goodwill and a little effort. And it is interesting to see that even these are not implemented or at least not sufficiently, or if I compare all the reports, and I have kept them there since 2011 until now, you generally remain the same. Of course there is change, there are new moments like the pandemic, etc., but what is really saddening is that sometimes I feel like we're doing a Sisif job here, that we're running into windmills that we can't even, not even reach, and not something more concrete because it turns out to be our commissioner, so the person we've authorized to care for our citizens' rights simply doesn't have any weight in front of the institutions that should have the same weight. I'm talking about the ministries, the institutions, the JLS, who are systematically deafening to the memos and haste of the attorney general. Of course, not all of us are such that we understand each other, there are bright examples, but as long as there are those last ones who will be so easily deaf about the letter of the attorney general or any other specializing lawyer, I don't think she as such can do her job to the extent that we should, and, um, that's actually proof that I don't say impotence, but certainly the impotence of the assembly, marginalization of the parliament, and then marginalization of a little bit of the institution that the assembly chooses. I know that gender equality issues, i.e. that the rights of LGBT communities fall within the responsibilities of the advocate for gender equality, but they cannot look at just a few facts that we can read from this or similar reports, which are that hate crimes continue to take place, that often they are not recognized and processed and that a lot more needs to be invested in education and police officers and judges and all others who should recognize them and even some parliamentary advocates who, who might not be bad at knowing what a crime of hate is and what hate speech is. Discrimination by sexual orientation is also still prevalent. I'll tell you just a few examples that connect to something that's waiting for us very quickly, and that's the population list. So, gender issues and parenting issues. The question of sex for people who have passed a gender change, whether they have changed physically, whether they are waiting for surgery, whether they will be able to enter it into the list of populations, first of all, on a web site or virtually, where they will be able to self-record. The same thing is parenting, although someone in the sex community now does not mean that he or she did not become a parent before or that she had no children. So these are small, small things that are actually very important to one part of our citizens. And it's really unacceptable to call 10% of our citizens from this pay phone abnormal. I will not allow this for this population or any other population, there are no abnormal citizens in the Republic of Croatia, there are only citizens who cannot exercise their rights, whose rights are threatened and will always have a spokesman in me regardless of the LGBT population or anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48253	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48254	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, not that we witnessed an important moment of the LGBT community in Croatia in which the Administrative Court decided to allow the same-sex partners to adopt the child and not to be discriminated against when applying. That day was a great day for all members of the LGBT community. Do you think this verdict will result in a greater number of adopted children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48255	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48256	Thank you very much, dear fellow I think she will because a lot of couples, same-sex couples, want to adopt children, wait, and they couldn't make it happen so far. But here's when you've only replicated a few remarks to me because we've already heard everything and everything in this house during today's debate. There's a difference between fostering and adopting, so this last verdict went in this direction like you said. It is unfortunate that many children are awaiting adoption, that they are long processes for children. I had the opportunity to see myself while I was working at a school that apparently my parents would never take care of them, but despite these differences within the law actually allowed them to wait indefinitely for adoption. I am sure that this will increase the number of people who can be, who can adopt a child because we know that interest exists and that these children will be able to find a family that will love them in which they can develop and grow unhindered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48257	There is also a respected representative and vice president of this house Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48258	Thank you very much. There will be a sure increase in both foster and adopted children. As you all know, I was talking to this pay phone and I was talking about when I was in the orphanage, to call it that. And as important as it would be and if the same sex couples could have, they could have access not only to foster but also to adopt. How much, how, since you all know what my attitude towards the gay population is then I have to add one more, one more thing. I have a lot of friends who are gay and who have expressed their affection. And I appreciate a lot more those who have expressed their affection than those who are not. Thank you. Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48260	Thank you very much. My colleague Furio, I don't think that anyone here has questioned your attitude that I know from before and referring to what we had in the assembly maybe before I want to apologize to you if you've taken it personally, I've never gone ad-hominem, I've gone ad act more or more or an act or an inaction that I thought was good or bad. But anyway I know your attitudes they've always been as unequivocal as they still believe, so here on that side I think we're absolutely in agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48261	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney general with the co-workers, the respected secretary of state, is the attorney general of the central body for the fight against discrimination. I expect all MPs and MPs not to belittle or relativise any violence and violation of fundamental human rights. A hate crime as a crime among other things predicts hate crime for religiousity. So according to what he's being discriminated against, it's the biggest thing that I would agree with, in part, what my colleague Becic said if we look at numbers, then it's a much bigger problem of violence against women, hate crimes for sexual orientation, because of nationality, so that's a much bigger problem in numbers, but let a 151 parliamentary representative have the right to talk about a crime of hatred for religious reasons. Here I would like to refer briefly to the recommendation of the attorney general in Report 2018, which says that an institutional call for conscience is impossible. Since conscience is a characteristic of a physical, not of a legal person, I don't think an institutional appeal to conscience actually exists because the conscience has individuals, not institutions. If it is individuals who exercise the right to object, therefore the obligation to refer to this physician is not a duty, it does not refer to a doctor but can potentially refer to an institution and competent institutions, the Ministry of Health should make a list of those institutions in which certain institutions are held with the right to object to a conscience, I am not in any way a register of doctors who claim the right to object because the conscience can be changed, and this could in some way be a pressure on a particular group that calls for a conscience. Also, in media appearances of individuals who advocate pro-choice, paradigms are often used to enlist certain gynecologists in public institutions the right to object, and then in private clinics in the afternoon they perform abortion services. First of all, the service of abortion in private institutions is not possible, and I would like them to say by name and last name who they are to you because it is a difficult violation that is for every conviction. However, I will return to what is much, much closer and much more important to me, in human societies few areas are marked by paradoxes as much as this area of mental health, in the context of the rights of persons with mental disorders, we are in favour of two totally opposite demands. One request for their protection, in particular by protecting against unnecessary coercion against them, but also by requiring the protection of society against the potential danger of those persons who, unfortunately, still dominate it, is therefore always the right to protect society dominantly. A new law was passed in Croatia for the first time in 1997. When it comes to people with mental disorders, then it is precisely the weakest link in any society because unlike all other vulnerable groups, people with mental disorders because of their lack of mental competence are not able to defend their own interests and protect their rights. So we're talking about people with severe mental disorders. Therefore, the law is the primary safeguard mechanism for those persons, but only provided that it applies in that function. No legal regulations or existing nor future will provide real protection to persons with mental disorders, if not accompanied at the same time by a general social climate, which we, as parliamentary representatives and advocates, can be greatly affected, in which respect for the personality of persons with mental disorders, autonomy, the right to self-determination, and in particular respect for their dignity, condio sin quo non of any treatment against them. In all of this, I see a significant role as the attorney general who will constantly follow and issue recommendations on improving the quality of life of people with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48263	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48264	Thank you very much. The Attorney General's jurisdiction is to encourage respect for international and European standards. As we know, the civilization and European achievement is respect for the victims and condemnation of totalitarianism and totalitarian crimes. In Croatia, a couple, the lawyer's office is silent on the fact that Croatian television is engaged in the production of a documentary by a certain Hrvoje Klasic, and this Klasic wrote a book of praise about the Miki Špiljk, which the court in Munich characterised as the orderer of the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic, whom the famous UDBA organization has killed in a particularly beastly way by breaking his head with an axe. Mr. Cellic, should the D.A.'s office warn HRT not to hire persons who are celebrating a totalitarian crime?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48265	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48266	Thank you. Dear colleague Vidovic Kristo. I was talking about a hate crime, and also, every crime is a crime. Whether it's a winning or a defeated army. I am saddened by the fact that when certain individuals relativise certain crimes, about the role of the attorney general and her competences, she, as an independent institution, should judge for herself what needs to be done, and we will then comment on the annual reports and make certain suggestions and criticisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48267	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48268	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I will look back on only one report from the 2020 Report where we can see that the most complaints received in the field of health, which is also the result of an epidemic of coronary viruses, which unfortunately hit Croatia as well. But my question to you, what is today's situation regarding the protection of human rights of persons with mental disorders in the light of the legislation in Croatia, which deals, of course, with this area, can we talk about the shift to better or worse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48269	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48270	Thank you. My dear colleague Maximchuk, I loved the fact that she was the attorney general, Simonovic Einwalter said that if all the institution's recommendations were respected, then in some ways this one might also be asked a certain question whether the attorney general is doing well his job. I think that certain shifts were made for the better, if we were to compromise it with a situation that was 10 years ago or 20 years ago when I started working at the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, for example, on the measures of coercion with the introduction of a new legislation, certain steps were made, the documentation was improved, so there are shifts for the better but they will never be enough because we are going towards a certain ideal and here would also call on fellow Boric who has repeatedly mentioned, that we all advocate that as soon as possible a strategic framework for the protection of mental health in the Republic of Croatia 'Cause unfortunately we've been waiting too long for him. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48271	The Honorable representative Oreshkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48272	Thank you. Your Honor, I'd like to introduce you to your presentation, and in some ways, it's also being touched by what Mrs. Poirot was saying. Petir, either we didn't understand each other or you deliberately pretend that we didn't get along well, yes, every discrimination is discrimination, and we need to convict her, but the point of what I was going to say is that by ruling these reports, we're dealing with a high dose of hypocrisy because it's not the point of us discussing whether the Attorney General's Office is doing well on its own business rather than whether the Government, whether the state authorities have done their job well in view of all those criticisms of the authorities that the citizens have made through the submission of their complaints to the Office of the Attorney General's Attorney General. And given the inaccessibility of health services, given the collapse of the social security system, given the difficult access to justice, it is hypocritical to claim that it is the biggest problem, and this is the result of Mrs. Petir that the biggest problem in the last 3 years is that Christians are being persecuted. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48273	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48274	Thank you. Dear colleague Oreshkovic, I didn't realize it was the biggest problem. My colleague Petir has also opened the topic, and I agree with you, at a time of increased social uncertainty, at a time of increased stress, at a national level there are a lot of problems to talk about, and this report by the attorney general, I would like at least to say in some summary certain shifts that can be combined at some regular time intervals, there is a lot of work ahead of us when you talk about health care, there is definitely a need for health reform, a question of funding, a question of debt that is constantly generated, regardless of what political option was, despite criticism, we all recognize when criticism is constructive and when criticism is destructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48275	Honorable representative Petyr has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Cellic, we could compare where major violations of human rights occur and where they are more numerous if we have statistics. We have statistics in areas that you mentioned but we don't have statistics in the area that I was talking about and that's freedom of religion, that's why I asked that this statistics start to run so that we can compare what's going on. Besides, I wasn't just looking for Catholic faith as it is imputed here, I was looking for all the faiths. And it might be interesting to look back at the recent events and see what is happening in the media space, in the public space when anti-Semitic outbursts that are particularly present because of the Middle Eastern conflict of the last days where hate speech is used against the state of Israel, against the Israeli people and there are various threats, and this would also require a debate that unfortunately we do not have time for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48277	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48278	Thank you. So, dear fellow Petyr, although such situations may be characterized as circumstantial, I will remind you of the situation a few years ago where an activist of a particular political party who is not parliamentary at the moment broke Dr. For religious reasons, for reasons of disagreement with her activists, he only got 3 years probation. So I believe that such cases, such situations must be condemned, as counterpart Hajdukovic said about the situation that took place in the park Maksimir. I don't know if there's anyone in this whiskey house who'd relativize it and who'd say it's something that's good. So, everyone in this public discourse can contribute to making such abidings in the Republic of Croatia as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48279	The Republic has a respected representative and vice president of the Furio Radin Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48280	Thank you very much. I see the institution of the attorney general or the attorney general, they've always been, they weren't always, the attorney general, they were the attorneys of the first two, I see her as a correction of power. That's the way it is when Mrs. Devereaux is. Vidovic, who was talked about a lot earlier, got a negative opinion, I saw it perhaps a little more as a success than a failure because the government was worried about what was actually written in the report. As you approach now, I think the best way is not to give an opinion, but to give one whole sequence of answers. I agree with ma'am. Oreshkovic, when he says the government must answer and not give suggestions, must answer, it is obvious, but I also agree with the fact that none of the attorneys He must not understand who defeats the fact that he is not a positive opinion. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48281	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48282	Thank you. Dear Vice President Radin, I agree with you, and I think it is a premise that the Ombudsman's institutes should be a bridge, they should have a partner relationship, it does not mean that the attorney general will write what corresponds to the Minister of the Interior, it has the right to its own opinion and these recommendations serve to improve fundamental human rights, to improve the work of institutions and certainly in some way when the ministry receives certain criticism and recommendations, it feels kind of called but I think that we should all work to improve dialogue and accept diversity and accept criticism, especially those that are constructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48283	Replica of Honored Representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48284	Thank you. Here's when you talked about the question of a conscience in medicine, I'd like to ask you since you're covering that area, do you know how many hospitals in the Republic of Croatia are breaking the law because there's not a single specialist who's performing a medical abortion procedure and which hospitals are involved, and do you think that's something that this assembly should regulate better and stronger, or do you think that's normal, and that's how we should let it go?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48285	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48286	Thank you. Dear fellow Bencic, I am familiar with the changes in the lists of these institutions year after year. I believe that, in addition to existing legislation, the Ministry of Health is obliged to publish a list of institutions where an abortion service is not possible and to arrange for such services to be provided in those institutions. So, first of all, it's the institution of the Ministry of Health who's in charge of it. And there is therefore no question of the conscience of individuals and potential investment of the right to object. There is no need to put pressure on anyone to change their attitude, but the Ministry of Health must respect positive legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48287	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48288	Thank you, Vice President. Reports by our female attorney general show us a real situation in the field and what the awareness of our society and the problems our citizens face on a daily basis. The report contains a whole series of recommendations from the attorney general himself. What's defeated and what I'm actually pointing to in this debate is that these recommendations have been repeated for years. This says that we are not working enough to implement the framework we already have, the dynamics of implementation of the recommendations are also significant reductions in recent years since the latest report discussed by the Croatian Parliament for 2017. So we have an increased number of complaints about labour and service relations and discrimination in the field of labour and employment, 306 in 2020. These are requests from MOTH employees because they were unable to move closer to their place of residence, which they sought most frequently for the establishment of a family or for the assistance and care of older and sick parents. I'll read you one of the demands in my environment, so you can assess how the state handles care and to what extent it discriminates against the family. Dearly beloved, I am a member of the MORH about 2014, I am currently in a protective battle in Zagreb, the reason for the personal transfer is primarily a family located in Osijek. I'm a father to two 18-month-old babies and 7.5-month-olds. Namely, the particular reason why I'm applying for a transfer is among other things my younger son who has a diagnosis that he is neurorisk and his wife attends exercises with a physiotherapist, which further makes it difficult for me to stay in Zagreb. The father is a 100% Croatian military invalid, his mother is a nurse and the move near my family place would make it easier for me to help with the family. In addition to the documents of my father's 100% disability and birth certificate and the find from my younger son. Despite the many appeals and lawyers whose powers are limited or not able to impose an obligation on the employer to apply for the transfer of applicants, it has also been appealed to the competent ministry. The dynamics of the transfer of applicants are currently slowed down due to the pandemic, but there is still no knowledge that these requests have been resolved by invitation. That's what the D.A.'s office report says. I also confirm that they are not. The family from that letter is still awaiting a response from the ministry and is still hoping to be dealt with positively. And whether or not it depends on who it's about. The right to work is guaranteed by the Constitution and by a series of international acts, each having the right to fair and favourable working conditions including job security, fair pay. Only in this way will we achieve social security, right to health, right to housing, right to family life, care and child rearing. Discrimination in the field of labour and employment is also prohibited, on the basis of age, health or property, education and other grounds under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. It is the state that is obliged to provide a social, economic and physical environment for the exercise of these rights. The question arises, so when will it start to work for what is mandatory? What is needed to approve these requests, to facilitate their family life, to stop discriminating them, and to exclude them from society? When will the General Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, begin to comply with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination? The Convention on the Rights of the Child undertakes that the best interests of the child must take precedence over all other interests in all procedures of the institution's body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48289	We have two replicas. The first is the Honorable MP, Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48290	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here's a good thing that you've opened up the subject and the labour rights. And what we believe is that we especially need to point out, and I believe that the Ombudsman will also have heard more about the subject, in fact, are contracts on a set which are actually a common example in Croatia, and I believe that we agree that with special attention we should look further at this problem because here we also have in the report an example of the lady who has been working constantly for a certain time for 15, 18 years, and here I believe that we will actually apply it to a greater extent and solving such problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48291	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48292	Thank you, counselor, for asking. Well, yeah, you're right, contracts for a certain time, especially for so many years means family can't move on at all. So they don't have the right to credit, they all suffer. And I think this is an opportunity to, and here's the attorney general of ours, hears the plastic examples from the assembly that we bring out of the lives of citizens, and I hope that the competent ministries will respect that and that things will start to change for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48293	Dear Representative Hajdukovic, I have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48294	Thank you very much. Kolice Nikolic, most here in the Croatian Parliament like to talk about the birth rate, about demographic restoration, about special care, about unfortunately the areas that are devastated, mostly demographic and here I think about Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem. We often say that this demographic natal policy is actually very complex, that it is not contained in any way, in any law, or in any policy. And here you are, as you are now, constantly discrediting them on examples from practice. This is the final example. How this soldier’s family will be able to function properly, you listed or read his application, a whole series of problems that limit him. This man would live in Slavonia, be close to his family, make it there, is that what the state allows him to do? Be careful, returning to one demographic economy in every way, the devastated end. No, I don't. And then the results of demographic policy are what they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48295	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48296	Yes, you're right, this case has been going on for months and we are, and we are just criticizing that the largest number of people have been evicted in our Slavonia, but these cases drive people out of Slavonia and make people move to Zagreb in the end because it will be better for that child who is sick and for the mother and for the whole family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48297	The next debate will be respected MPs Martina Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48298	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the esteemed attorney general with his associates, the esteemed secretary of state, the esteemed fellow MPs and MPs. Today we are discussing a report by the attorney general for 2018, '19. and in the '20s. And as the report says, as we have repeatedly heard today, the delay of the debate in the assembly is not a good message to the authorities to which the attorney general sent the messages. This certainly contributes and postpones the resolution of individual cases, which is also the result of the overall effort to reduce discrimination and raise the quality of life by more powerful protection of human rights. Regular discussion of the report is necessary to protect human rights and raise the quality of life of citizens in various threats. In my debate, I will look back on the situation of elderly people in Croatia, as well as an important one from the report by the Ombudsman for 2020. The burning problem of older and powerless people is poverty certainly where 1/3 of older people live at risk of poverty, and the services they need in everyday life are often unreachable, especially in rural areas. In the coronary pandemic, the most older and powerless experienced additional exclusion when they experienced constipation in their homes or accommodation facilities. The problem that has been the problem for many years and which is not enough, which is insufficiently done is the lack of accommodation for older and powerless persons, as well as for paliable patients, and as specific users of those suffering from dementia and Alzheimer's disease. The number of homes of the state which is, how many of them we have two and the decentralised homes we have 45 years is the same. The social care centre in the public homes is located 72 users, and 96 users contract, while 1730 users are located in decentralised homes with a solution of the social care centre and 9217 with the contract. As regards insufficient home assistance services during 2019 3541 older people have been recognised to help in the house through the solution of the centre, and the real needs are greater, which is also the information that it is during 2020. Due to the outbreak Croatian Red Cross made more than 81,000 visits to the households of older and difficult mobile persons. Available projects such as “Walt” or “Halo Help” are commendable valuable projects, but are not systematic and non-permanent, and are marked by the uncertainty of the elderly because they are just used to one person, so the project stops, and we could also hear in the media about problems about non-payment of salaries to the geronto-domestics. We note that it is important for the project to include users who really need help and whose maintenance bonds are not able to provide material and physical assistance, that we do not have a situation where those who are, who are covered, are older and powerless, who are able to pay for certain services, and those whose services are more needed cannot come into those programmes. We agree as JLS, larger cities, especially county headquarters, and regional self-government in their decisions and programmes assume an increase in services for older and powerless persons and provision of accommodation facilities. The increase of services for older and powerless persons ensures their longer stay at home, which is also the desire of older and powerless people. It is also a priority to increase supervision of accommodation facilities because we have also witnessed inhumane treatment of elderly people in homes, but also an accident due to inadequate conditions where elderly people have died. We consider it necessary to report any suspicion of endangering older people to competent institutions, to take any suspicion seriously, and to take it seriously, and to take everything to protect the rights of older and powerless persons, according to the application or police or the centre or ministry. What was seen in practice in the welfare system could be further observed is the lack of cooperation of general practitioners with the welfare system or other services. It is our joint task to provide and protect and care for older people and cannot be the responsibility of just one resistor. We are looking for clear instructions and protocols that will list the tasks of each restor, and we hope that both the action and activities of the Ombudsman's staff will take place in this direction in order to strengthen interdepartmental cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48299	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48300	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Vlasic Iljkic, during the pandemic, the elderly were the most endangered, both because of the greater risk of developing serious diseases and because of insufficient support for ensuring minimum living conditions. The average pension remained below the poverty line, spent the year closed, alone without contact with the outside world, even during more favourable epidemiological situations. Then there was this tragic event with a fatal outcome in the fire of nine family home users, all of which pointed to the ineffectiveness of the system of supervision of social service providers and insufficient investment in it, which you yourself have warned about several times. After many years, a new Social Care Act has been announced, do you think it will improve and eliminate the shortcomings we face today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48301	Dear representative Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48302	I appreciate the question. Here we have already mentioned several times the Law on Social Care and what its adoption should be resolved. As it is promised that certain problems will be tackled in particular in accommodation facilities and in particular in part of the supervision of accommodation facilities, the number of those who will be in charge of monitoring such facilities will also increase. However, three years of postponing the law does not give us the confidence that the ministry has a plan and indeed that this action plan, which is planned to be adopted in the Social Care Act, needs to be achieved with certain results and contributes to the protection of older people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48303	Honorable representative Opačak Bilic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48304	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I would like to make one more comment since I agree with you that measures in the Strategy against Poverty and Social Exclusion as well as other national documents and regulations in the social care system obviously do not contribute to the eradication of poverty because the data on the rates of risk of poverty speak for themselves and here I believe that all the proposals that you have made will be respected and that the same risk of poverty will be reduced by applying them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48305	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48306	Well, we've already mentioned to the occupier, so the insistence is that the guaranteed minimum fee is increasing, that only 7% of the people at risk of poverty are covered and that the criteria have to change. What was perhaps five or six years ago is not current and the criteria need to be changed in a step with time, and in a step in view of the environment since we are one of the EU's most vulnerable members in the area of poverty, amongst the greatest threats, and that should certainly be addressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48307	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48308	Ladies and gentlemen. What would happen if we made a decision in HS today to abolish the Attorney General's institution? Would anyone in Croatia cry about it? How much more justice is there in Croatia because of the actions of the attorney general? The answer is clear to the vast majority of Croatian citizens, no one would regret it because like the vast majority of other institutions in Croatia, the Ombudsman does not do his job and serves Croatian citizens but himself and a narrow group of powerful people. The symbol is that in one day we have a three-year report, I guess it's written in one breath on the copy-pass principle because the Ombudsman is a citizen's lawyer in front of institutions. If you were really citizens' lawyers then every other day a public statement that would warn you that the CNB violates the laws, does not respect the EU's contracts or the Data Protection Regulation and protects the anti-legislation of banks and interest agencies that disenfranchise and rob Croatian citizens, then you would have a weekly statement that courts together with the Liechtenstein agencies and banks violate the Croatian Law on Mandatory Relations, Croatian Penal Law, the constitutional principle of a fair trial of the fundamental principles of the EU contract that prescribes the rule of law because in Croatia, ladies and gentlemen, courts accept the paper on which provides the basic items blacked out as a credible document and contract. How is it even possible that the lawyer's office accepts this? Do you read the paper? Have you heard that the courts of the interest agency are unlawfully evicting multiple families from their homes? The latest example is the one in Zapresic. If you were citizens' lawyers, then you would warn Pupovac's representative that he violates the Croatian Constitution and the general civil values and roughly discriminates against the parents of Laura's dead girls when he counts blood cells on the day of the petri dish. If you were citizens' lawyers, then you would raise your voice against the institutional corruption of Croatian media according to which the Croatian Government and state-owned companies via the so-called so-called so-called state-of-the-art. The thematic conferences of subsidies for the development of democracy and similar programmes keep the media dependent and thus prevents them from reporting freely, resulting in a fundamental right for Croatian citizens, which is the right to objective information. Because how is it possible for the European Commission itself to respond to my complaint about the privatisation of Croatia's insurance and the case of the Veteran Krš-Paden in the executive vice president's person to respond to my request without the Croatian citizen being informed by HRT? Where is the constitutional provision on freedom of the media? Why are you keeping your mouth shut about censorship and protecting corruption? If you were lawyers of Croatian citizens, then the health system would not be collapsed, while private health institutions were swimming in money, it is possible only because the DORH does not do its job and instead of preventing corruption from aiding it. I mention health care because we have a case of the Institute of tumours and KBC in Vinograd which is literally falling apart. In war conditions, Croatia has had functional health, not only because of an outdated management system but primarily because of corruption and nepotism. When we are realistically looking at your report, you have a very small number of cases with regard to the level of social injustice that governments in Croatia, and it is clear why, Croatian institutions are synonym for injustice in which powerful men do what they want and ordinary people are harassed at every turn. I personally remember the former Ombudsman only by the statements in which she muddyed Croatia about alleged Ustasha symbols, without giving concrete evidence. A few days ago, a politician in Germany accused a conservative of anti-Semitism. On the second day, the government's anti-Semitism commissioner asked this "Green" representative to prove these claims, or to apologize and the lady apologized the same day. The D.A. is obliged to represent and fight for all citizens and their legal rights in the same way. You must not listen to any powerful man in the Attorney General's Office, you are the only and sole superior to the Constitution and the law, and your employer is Croatian citizens. With its work so far, the attorney general has served himself, not the citizens, and given the indisputable nepotism in selecting the current lawyer, this will not change. Be aware, though, that the time of rule of law will come and that abuses will have to be largely accounted for. I'll make it clear. Your inaction is a violation of your obligations for which you are paid. Of course, I'll vote against your report as a sign of protest against your unhappiness and conjecture to the powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48309	We have a replica, a respected representative of the Radins.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48310	Oh, I'll, too much you said, I won't get into it, into content, I'll just go in, more or less in the first sentence and another one at the end. The first sentence is that no one would regret it in Croatia if they didn't have a lawyer's office. I'd regret it. So there's at least one of them, and I think there's a lot, a lot more 'cause they're social corrections. No matter what, you said between the other things and the truth, I want to be one of those who say, I mean, right? I think, and about the alleged Ustasha symbols, you know what I think they're not supposed to be, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48311	Thank you for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48312	I can give you my word or I can give you my word. You'll do it yourself? [[I'm sorry, I didn't wait.]] Dear representative Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you too, colleague Radin. As for the first sentence, look, if institutions did their job, then they would make sense. When you say you'd be sad if there wasn't a D.A., I'll tell you that I'm already sad today that there isn't a D.A. That's exactly what this exposure is all about. The institution as an institution is very much needed, but it serves nothing when it works contrary to what it is called for and for what it is paid for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48314	Thank you. Now, in the name of the rapporteur, she will speak to the esteemed Ombudsman Tena Simonović Einwalter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48315	Although I may be most happy to turn to the last exhibit, I will refer again to the ones that were before that because I am trying to treat everything equally. In relation to what Representative Hajdukovic said, absolutely co-operation, I would say, on the one hand, the institutions that do not respond to the letter on individual cases, on the other hand, those who do not implement recommendations from the case, on the third hand, those who do not implement recommendations from the Report, but these are just some types of cooperation, cooperation should actually be more and more in other ways along with this. As far as hate crimes are concerned, I would say that the problems, on the one hand, are recognition, and not only when the motive is determined by criminal law, but when it comes to a combination of different motives. Processing and finally, what kind of punishments are being pronounced, however, of course it is the role of courts and we follow and report it precisely because of the connection and continuity between prejudices and stereotypes, discrimination, hate speech and hate crime, and I will agree in fact that the victims do not report largely because they do not believe in the system and do not believe in institutions, but I think it is good that this Protocol has been adopted and I hope that the Working Group for hate crimes, which is one of the examples of good practice, because it is a very pluralistic composition, indeed, to meet, which is also one of the recommendations from the latest reports. As for the presentation of Agent Cellic, I did not, of course, want to imply that I think there is a collective appeal of conscience, of course it is a personal right, but I just wanted to say that if you live in a town where all doctors in a particular hospital call for a conscience, again from an individual perspective of a woman, it is so-called. The collective appeal of conscience. As regards the role of the central authority to combat discrimination, therefore, any individual or individual in the Republic of Croatia may be discriminated against. He can, of course, be discriminated against and Catholic based his faith in an individual case. It can be discriminated against by a man, a Croat, a Catholic, a heterosexual orientation, not to mention 17 discriminatory grounds in the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination. You can always be discriminated against by something, but when we talk about structural discrimination, and when we talk about chapters in the reports, we certainly won't be talking that way here, but we're actually looking at the difference between individual complaints, what we see as a broader picture. As for the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation, I was actually already saying, "I agree, absolutely, protection against unnecessary coercion is very important." The general social climate is important. We have a high level of Stigmatization and individuals and their families, but sometimes, unfortunately, individuals by their families and I certainly think that we should also work to respect their personality and autonomy. As far as totalitarian regimes are concerned, that's what I've been showing myself about today. All MPs who think they don't move on their own initiative based on media knowledge are absolutely free to file a complaint to the attorney general, and then we'll have to act on it. As for further transfer requests, I must say that, yes, I agree with you, rarely by choosing a job, a profession, or a career, he thinks that it absolutely gave up his personal and family life. The right to work, contracts are already a long topic, I would like to say that not only is this a recommendation in the 2020 report, therefore, to limit the number of contracts to a certain time that the employer can conclude with the worker but we have one positive development, implementation of earlier recommendations to the State Inspectorate while carrying out targeted controls of the abuse of these contracts which are now being carried out. A lot of things have already been said in relation to older people, I agree. And now finally compared to the last exposure. The institutions don't serve a tight group of powerful men, I'd like you to see what it's like to be my working day or my day at the office, so maybe you can't legally, but you go on tours to prison or go with us to tour Roma settlements or earthquake victims, so we're not just dealing with the interests of a tight group of powerful men. A lot of what is stated is things that are not within the jurisdiction of the institutions, I can only act under the Constitution, the Law on International Contracts and the Law of the EU, so you talked about the Law on Mandatory Relations, private legal relations, decisions by courts where senior courts are competent, so that we do our job health care system would not be collapsed, which seems to me to be a little overestimating the role of the attorney general. We know which institutions are in the Republic of Croatia and what they are responsible for. Also when you talk about the work of the State's Attorney's Office, but to agree with one, my only superior is the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48316	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative Vidović Kristo, just a little bit, please. Here you go, distinguished representative Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48317	So you're saying you don't serve as an institution of tight common power and yourself. However, I'm going to have to remind you of what I told you today and in the replica, so your case is just like being taken out of a non-potism textbook. You were chosen on the basis of the daughter of a man who was in charge of today's Plenkovic, Milanović, Jandrokovic, etc., Mr. Šimonović, not your references.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48318	The esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48319	I think it's pretty clear that people can't choose their parents. I have parents who I have and what I should have done, moved somewhere else so no one knows who my parents are. I don't think that would be good. I don't know if you're lying to me or not. As MPs, you had an option between four candidates who answered a public call. You're the one who assessed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48320	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48321	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238 of MP Kristo was violated for the reason that the topic of today's session is not the Ombudsman and her family, but the report on the work of the Ombudsman, and I ask you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48322	I agree with you this one, and I think you should stay away from any comments about someone's personality, family, appearance or anything else because you know it's not like this place. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48323	I also have to start with what's been a lot of talk about today. In fact, the fact that we are discussing three-year reports today or three years in three years, which in no doubt is a political fact number one and a political message. And that's what would be good to discuss simply because I think it does it in some way and the measure of what, which is contained in these reports. It is a political one that says that in this country, or those who should have been discussed in previous years, these reports, that human rights are not important to us. It is painful knowledge to me, and it seems to me that reading and the government's testimony on the recommendations that have come after each of these annual reports shows that it is a kind of underestimation of not only the institute, the institution of the attorney general for, the female attorney general, but that in some sense it is about underestimating the parliament, so we as a legislative body, but also of all the citizens of this country who were considered injured in their rights because they were discriminated and addressed this office, this institution. Generally looking at the human rights situation in Croatia is of course not good, it is bad. We do seem to be visible from any of these years to take, we have a case of systemic discrimination of large groups of people in this country whether they are inadequately legally protected, whether we do not have institutional protection, we do not have a capacitated institution that could do this, whether we have laws and institutions, but it is simply a matter of inaction, therefore, and of failure to perform the key tasks of those institutions that exist. The statistics they call upon and give us in the report simply shows that it is inadequate, that it is missing, insufficient, that it also speaks of the importance of what we are talking about here today. As a Croatian defender, I can also say that many of us who have gone into the active defense of our country, that we wanted to live in a country that we wanted to stand alone and live in a country where we would respect not only to ensure a decent life for the people and citizens of this country through decent wages and pensions but, above all, I would say through the preservation of dignity and protection by protecting the human rights of these people in this country. These, these objections that we have heard now, the ugly and malignancies completely unfounded at the expense of the institution of the attorney general, I would say, deplaced, and I agree that a police attorney cannot be asked for what is not his jurisdiction. We have heard here that it covers 60 different areas and that, of course, it is not possible to follow each of those areas equally. As a man who I am in a way, I apologize for this... I have initiated the introduction of the Ombudsman institution for gender equality, persons with disabilities and defenders for children, I would also be free to propose to our Parliament that we go with the establishment of the Ombudsman's institute for older persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's such a complex problem, a huge number of people who are reportedly from these reports are visible, discriminated, only as long as this debate of ours today is at least three by official record of people beaten up by the elderly in their own families and ten times more due to the stigma of shame has not been reported. It is about people whose social security has been compromised, who have been partially discriminated against by the laws of this country, let's say you state the case and the example that those who are over 65 years old, their employer has to pay for their sick leave even though they pay for health insurance benefits. People who are being robbed, who are being bribed and who live 50% if they're talking, in single households below the poverty line. 30% over 65 years of age lives below the poverty line and the European average is about 18%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48324	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48325	Thank you. When we talk about human rights, I don't know if you're aware, there are no fundamental and public human rights policies in the Republic of Croatia missing for 5 years, such as the Strategy for Gender Equality, the Strategy for Civil Society Development, the National Programme for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, all of these are documents brought to the Government, not brought by the Parliament. And the D.A. is aware of that, and she warned, and here are some colleagues invited to object to her, the government for five years, and the same government has not brought these documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48326	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48327	Thank you. I can agree, of course, to repeat, the address is wrong. Fortunately, it is one of the better institutions in this country, the institution of the occupier. The problem is something else, so you rightly point out in these three years, we are now discussing the problem, unfortunately longer, 30 years. when it comes to systematic systemic violations of human rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This government hasn't made any serious moves. I talked a little bit about older people. 147 kn is lower average pension and that... Only for old-age pensions from the poverty line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our government finds it congruent and it is a cynicism of its own, that now that COVID supplement not thinking last year when it was meant to be given to people, 100 or 200 kn as other governments gave and provided for older people. So about not quality actually...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48328	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48329	Thank you. Dear colleague, you mentioned the importance of caring for older people or the need to give greater importance to that group since it is indeed a group of up to 20.78% in the total population and on the rise in individual counties,... in Sibenik-Kninska and Sisak-Moslavina, where services are far from available for the full care of those elderly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do you comment, and what is the future, in fact, of these environments where the number of ageing population, the single population, increases the need for services and they are not available, and how do you comment on the fact that this challenge is growing and less and more resolute in the near future?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48330	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48331	Thank you. Last year, one of our fellow parliamentary representatives was something she mentioned in the lawyer's report, when it comes to COVID and the elderly who said so that people must die of something. I'm afraid of this strategy, which is evident and visible in many ways, that nature will solve something in itself, and that these people will be left without adequate care in the neighborhoods and it's not just about the earthquake that has been affected, which is indeed a catastrophic situation, and now it's even worse for those vulnerable people, vulnerable groups, these are people who no longer have, they've lost their ability to work, they can't take care of themselves anymore in a way that people who are working or even unemployed. They don't have a chance to worry anymore. It is so much more important that state institutions do their jobs and what is required is not met and let alone additionally or additionally for those particularly affected areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48332	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Nina Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48333	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will again express my regret that she was not behind this pay phone and does not answer the questions of the staff, the former staff attorney at the time whose term of office was done this job that was presented to us with these reports, but the new Ombudsman has been here for 8 hours in the wind, and in fact you were not at the head of the institution when this was done. We had a similar thing with the state's chief attorney where we couldn't get Mr. Jelenic to ask him about some things. And I think that a good practice would be in the future to report when they come to the Parliament, if they have already passed their mandate, they should defend those who led those institutions while the work that is being presented in the reports is done. And in this way, somehow, guilt and credit don't go to the right address. About half an hour ago, I got a meme, a joke that says like this, if anyone knows where that country is spoken of by Andrej Plenkovic, I would very much like to live in it. Indeed, what they're talking about by ruling as some utopia, it's growing, it's forecasting the largest growth in the EU, all of it is booming, it's all progressing. But on the other hand, the anti-indulgence of this utopia is the country that describes this report, so I called it dystopia, with the elements of the noir that it really is here, Mr Furio sees me as a Dante-cite downtonte, a Gotham city as you will, dystopia entirely. I don't recognize the country spoken of in this report, so after the specific things that I've been talking about a little bit, I'm suggesting to the new narrator not to write about dystopias, but to one country that has its own problems as well as everyone else, who is trying to improve human rights. We will never reach perfection, and that is one effort that will be continued by our generations and that comes because there is no optimum, but we are trying and we should be guided by dialogue and cooperation with institutions, not by unnecessary conflicts with them and even muddy them as was the case I have listed with the Croatian police where I see one of the great problems of your predecessor's work and I hope you will not continue on this trail. I also spoke of excessive legislative activation, a scandalous request of this recommendation, which is in one report, which is to limit the sovereignty of the people. We are the Republic, the government comes from the people and belongs to the people, the people in terms of all citizens, and it cannot be limited. Furthermore, we have seen from even suggesting an ethnic count in some situations, which is scandalous. This proposal states in one of these reports that the ethnic composition of those whom the police have acted incorrectly then immediately goes on a legitimate counter-question, why not establish the ethnic composition of the perpetrators of criminal offences in some areas, and what all this leads to is that we will count ourselves rather than treat people as citizens who are equal to the law and have equal rights and equal obligations. Then, if it were not for your predecessor's work, what is read from these reports to do everything to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether they are Croats or members of national minorities, are equal in all but that some should be particularly privileged, is seen from Recommendation No. 52 For minority peoples listed in the original foundations of the Constitution, the MAP provides for an unfettered way of obtaining citizenship. Why would someone have some benefits in certain things compared to others, it's not clear to me. Reports are occasionally sent down at the level of ridiculous soles, for example, famously from 2019, when speaking of citizens protesting in Međimurje talks about these people who wore prostarian black shirts, we do not have Arsen Bauk to complete this analysis which is the difference between Ustasha shirts, black Ustasha shirts and Proustian black shirts. Croatia is not a country of hatred and intolerance, there is no serious political extremism in Croatia. Anyone who knows what and how the golden dawn in Greece or Jobbik in Hungary works here is a country south and north of us paramilitary formations with street violence will agree that thank God in Croatia we do not have serious political extremism and violence. It doesn't mean that there are no problems and that we don't have to solve them, but let's not create Gotham City from a reality that isn't. Excuse me, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48334	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48335	My dear colleague, Mr. Detect. I have two questions for you, and first is reading the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia he clearly indicates in article. No. 2. that all power comes from the people and that the people choose their chosen ones and directly influence certain changes. One of these direct changes is the referendum, so just to give us an example and a comment that certain things should not be resolved by a referendum on national minorities. And the second question about the law is, if I'm not wrong about the attorneys or the attorney general says special reports should be submitted, for example, the crown in the 3rd month, I think it would be an extraordinary opportunity and the subject of the attorney or attorney being exposed to this extraordinary phenomenon like this pandemic, so here I'm going to ask you a comment on these two questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48336	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48337	Thank you. I have already said that it is scandalous for me that we have not received a special report now in the spring of 2021 on the state of human rights in the crown crisis throughout 2020, but that we are talking about the impact of climate change on human rights in Croatia. I think we're all going to agree that in the last year our human rights were more affected by the coronary situation and the measures of headquarters justified that or not everyone could be discussed but climate change. But that's not what happened. I also find it problematic, which is also in the 2020 report. of 264 pages only 10 dedicated to problems related to the coronary crisis. This story about some things I can't go to the referendum is the story of Baron Munich. The people are elected by the citizens of the Croatian MPs in the Assembly who then elect the attorney general, and now the lawyer would keep some of the citizens from the same people who eventually secreted her. I don't think that the democratic right of people can be restricted and I don't believe that our citizens are such that they would mostly bring anything that would restrict other people's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48338	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Tomasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48339	Thank you. Mr. Rasudiæ, well the fact is, I can agree with you that the disaster is actually that we didn't have those reports in time, that it didn't go year after year, but now we're getting three old reports, we've already discussed it in the Parliament. However, if you're already talking about Mrs. Shimonović Einwalter, she's been the deputy attorney general since 2013, so that's a new vehicular lawyer, but she's been so far, so far, in 2018 and '19. And in 2020, is there anything positive about that report? You, of course, have the right to your criticisms according to your political worldview. But is there anything positive, say, about energy poverty, about the Agency for the collection of claims where the attorney general's office asked to amend the Executive Law? Is there anything positive about, say, when they reacted that, when the owners of companies wanted to actually fire workers who were in self-insulation or reduce their wages, which, which is illegal, means whether there is anything positive in that report and work from 2019.?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48340	Thank you. Dear Representative Rasdic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48341	I appreciate the question. Of course, 95% in fact in these reports are positive, but the question is is whether it justifies the employment of 53 people or whether 12-15 top lawyers could do the same job and process it all? But that is precisely why it is a shame that the 5% in public is losing confidence in the institution of the occupier, and we are talking about the famous "For Home Ready" more than about the situation of the crown crisis. I don't know, after this it turns out that I woke up this morning, that my wife greeted me "for a home", I replied, "prepare," the child said to me "for a home of pemni", met Arsen Bauk in the hallway he welcomed me "For a home ready" etc. There is a problem of political extremism and the expansification of totalitarian symbols, but he repeats that in Croatia is not expressed, but much less in most Western countries and should be talked about and weakened by any totalitarianism should be opposed, but he cannot get more space and more focus than the restriction of human rights in the coronary crisis where there has been an unwarranted or problem with the inaccessibility of health services and some other things, so the question is just focus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48342	Thank you very much. Now, since we're talking about health, we're going to take a break from this one to get a little windy because we haven't had a clear window in three and a half hours, so we're going to meet again at 16 and 45. [[It's 4:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:45 A.M.]] Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, our break is up and we will continue with individual debates and will now speak to Representative Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48344	Honorable MPs and MPs. More or less everything we did today or said in this assembly is wrong and wrong. Not to repeat all that I have pointed out today during the release of free views, the essence of the Ombudsman's report is to hear what our citizens' complaints about the system, on the work of the institutions, on the content of the law, in the way the laws are implemented in practice, and all those recommendations that, based on complaints from our citizens, were to be the basis of a public debate on how to make our country better. But instead of talking about what our system's shortcomings are and how to improve them and how to solve problems, a good part of the MPs have narrowed down today's debate on the criticisms of the work of the Office of the Ombudsman, especially during the term of office of Laura Vidovic. All this is completely missed and wrong and for a reason all of our citizens who have listened to this debate today can be disappointed with all of us. So in order for this situation to never happen again, here, I immediately appeal to the presidents of HS that the report by the Ombudsman for 2021 put the debate right after this report is submitted to the parliamentary procedure, and that the debate would not look like this today, as a search for lost time, I suggest that the debate itself be structured. To separate what concerns problems in the judiciary, as a special topic, to separate what concerns the social rights system, as a special topic, to separate what concerns access to health care as a special topic, so that what we, parliamentarians, speak to each other, can indeed be considered dialogue. This is how today, more or less, we've all talked to ourselves, talked to our electoral body and discussed human rights on some controversial ideological issues that actually have no direct connection. And what exactly does it look like when we get to the bottom of it? Here, I'll start with the right to health care. Since something more significant was said about him in 2020, since it was a year marked by the pandemic of the coronary virus, all of those problems were somehow particularly pronounced. And what does that part say? It is said that our primary health care system is not working properly, that we are looking for an emergency medical discharge, an increase in its effectiveness for emergency patients, and in this regard we have passed a new Health Protection Act, but that it has not achieved its effects because the health system is not tailored to this new law. And we today, at least one part of the debate should be dedicated to why there is no movement in the health care system, not only in the mandate of this government, but these are reforms that have been waiting for a decade and how paradoxical it is, if we link it to the new slogan of the Croatian tourist community that says, "Trust me, I've been there" and thus wants to send a message to our tourists that Croatia is a safe and well-prepared country for tourists. Well, you'll agree, especially at the time of the world pandemic, it's very important how many countries have a well-prepared health system. And how to claim that he is well prepared for our tourists, if our citizens also have access to health care is very difficult, especially in some less developed areas, and these are, more or less, all areas outside major urban centres. If we talk about another important area, which is the right to access to justice, it is repeatedly repeated year after year that the system of free legal aid does not work because financial resources for those who provide such services to Croatian citizens are insufficiently allocated. On the other hand, it is unknown how many authorities, units of local and regional self-government stand out for legal services, and there are hundreds of times higher than what is being made available to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48345	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of the Marine Opačak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48346	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, when we discuss a report that includes in its content the violation of human and other rights that are denied to our citizens in various areas of life, such as gender-based discrimination, looks like nationality, energy and social threats, discrimination in the field of health, or unfair executive approach to our citizens, it is really difficult to choose which area is most important because for each citizen, the most important thing that he has met. Given that a fifth of the population in the Republic of Croatia lives at risk of poverty, I will look back today on the blocked citizens of the Republic of Croatia and in general on those who have met with the notion of performance. According to the 2020 data, 233 264 were recorded on 30 November, blocked consumers with a debt of €17.2 billion, and of which they owe the banks and the central state the most. Domination of long-term blockades has not been interrupted so for more than a year nearly 70% of citizens with 14.7 billion kuna were blocked, and still the most consumers were blocked due to a debt of up to 10,000 kuna. The exercise is important for the exercise of the principle of rule of law and it is justified to expect the exercise to be swift, effective and just, but above all to provide protection for the dignity of the perpetrators, which is not the case in our country. Although it has been warned for years that the need for the adoption of a new, full executive law would allow for such an exercise by citizens in the long-term and sustainable way as if no one heard. So from this report, we see a constant indication of the unacceptable treatment of the demand collection agencies as well as, in general, the difficult socio-economic position of the overindebted citizens. In addition, the consequences of the epidemic and earthquake have endangered the existence of our citizens, and the government has not approached the whole solution in order to help its people, but has focused on taking intervention measures, and these measures do not cover open issues of the executive system, and I repeat that it is necessary to continue the debate and work on the adoption of a new whole executive law. Blocked and executed citizens are maximumly disfigured because there is no one who is in such a difficult situation without feeling like the whole system is against him, while FINA, lawyers and notebooks continue to rub their hands. And there's no more obvious example of human dignity violations than impact on existence because every new day, every new month, brings new obligations and it's absurd that someone from 500 to 1000 kuna, plus three times the cost of the procedure, will be blocked with the means needed to live, or better to say that they are, to block their chances of normal life. These people need to be offered the opportunity to, from somewhere, be able to start because none of the blocked citizens happily came into this situation and there are people who, for a few months, have lost their jobs, not necessarily, even the employees could find themselves in such a situation that they were unable to settle their obligations for a time, and here in the end, in fact, legal interesting of the FINE and the poor, inadequate executive law, their debt actually tripled. I therefore appeal to your attorneys, too, for the maximum involvement and protection of the fundamental rights of this group of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48347	We have one replica, the respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48348	Thank you very much. You reminded me of the same case I'm familiar with. It's not necessarily about performances in the sense that someone has remained in debt, it's about reselling debts, or the bank has estimated that a gentleman, his credit, belongs to a risk and has decided to resell it, and this gentleman is now left at the mercy of the agency that bought the debt or loan. The gentleman is a Croatian defender, a Croatian military invalid who supports the family, so he has more members of a dependent family and the worst colleagues he recognizes this debt of course and wants to return it, but in a mode of life in which he can live. So someone doesn't have to take everything he's got. We, as a state, might need to be more involved as a public defender's institution in order to protect just such people who are at the mercy of different strange agencies dealing with debt resales.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48349	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48350	Yes, unfortunately this is just one of the great, large number of similar examples and indeed completed citizens in the Republic of Croatia do not have a reasonable opportunity to pay their debt because with all the costs of FINA, lawyers, notebooks it is very difficult. Most of these people, as I said, are actually out of work, they have no place to work, they are blocked, and the interest on FINI is growing daily, and they are really in one of the deadlock situations, and we have a duty, as you have told us to point out, and it is, of course, an urgent duty to respond and to take care to protect this group of citizens because there are a lot of problems and directing in Croatia are actually more expensive than in many other EU countries, and additionally, electricity and water without judicial judgments is excluded from us, which is actually extremely discriminatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48351	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48352	... Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected female attorney general and dear citizens who follow us through the screen. [[Specially enabled.]] I'd like to, I'd just like to further expand this debate that my colleague touched in the previous presentation, and it's about the executions. The problem is that what you have instructed is that it will not be solved for the reasons that we had the opportunity to listen to in the last draft of the law that the Croatian government has simply decided to equalize the notes you have touched with the courts for the reason that the European Court has indicated that it does not accept this credible correction when making decisions and it cannot be treated as a court, however, we have seen it on the case of Pula Parking, where, for example, when you are called Olaf, Olaf Son Peterson then go to court, and on the other hand, when you are called Opačak Bilic, then you have to go to the public notary who are then the additional institute has been put up for further notices, which is further pending and in fact the final conclusion is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been protected by 300 public record families at the expense of 300,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Neither will the lawyer's mother-in-law's mother-in-law. At least I didn't hear that anyone criticized it that way so it goes to favour that public record caste at the expense of 300,000 people who rot every day. What is also crucial is that the basic logic of the European Court is that our rights and obligations are being resolved through the court, is this also the way we should be treated, so Olaf Peterson is going to court because of Pula's parking, then I see no reason why General Pracchin would not go to court, for example, to resolve his rights and obligations and why public notebooks should do so. So, in this sense, the public notebooks became commissioners of the courts and it was some kind of transitional solution of the government, but I agree with you, there is no whole solution, so one law that would really make it easier for our citizens because here, and every day I get examples of citizens or accounts where certain municipal accounts are being paid from 80, 90 to 100 kn costs from 1000 to 1100 kuna. The second thing I've already touched on is the question, so it's incompatible to me that we're paying 10 million kuna a year, so it's a serious one service, and I'm looking at it from the perspective of the manager, the businesses, if someone's coming to me to do consulting services, and that's for the sake of giving some recommendations, and I'm paying 10 to 12 million kuna a year, so these services, it's unacceptable to me that these recommendations are not being adopted and that 60% of these recommendations are therefore government or reviewing. Then why do citizens of the city or Croatia pay 10 to 12 million kuna a year? It's also a big question now, so why is that happening? At the end of the day, the Croatian Parliament was not even involved in this because we did not discuss these reports annually, and not the blameless lady sitting here, but the general process and procedure, so that this is our extended hand from one side of the Croatian Parliament and on the other hand we are not discussing reports, the recommendations are made, it is paid 10 to 12 million kuna per year, so here we can calculate, 40 million kuna for what? So, I'm only talking about one term. I'd like to touch on another topic about where I think it should be a safe domain of the attorney general. For example, our patients. This report states that even the Ministry of Health does not even supply data in time. So here's what's going on, I'm not even going into the side of these conflicts that happen around the KBC Sister of Mercy, I'm not interested in those sides, but I'm interested in having such conflicts, so there's a hospital in here, so they're suffering under no. 1 patients for reasons that have not been examined in time, under no. 2 suffer doctors and radiologists who leave the hospital because they simply don't want to work under such conditions, so it costs the whole budget, it costs the whole public because we have to watch it and I don't see that the attorney went out and she criticized it. By No. One, these are patients' rights, so they have the right to protect themselves and we look at the tape that lasts every time there's an election, we have a tape with certain people where they're then ripped apart, so things are out and everything costs a lot of money to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48353	Now, on behalf of the rapporteur or rapporteur, the esteemed Ombudsman Tena Simonović Einwalter will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48354	I am therefore on my way to the presentation of Mr Vidovic. I've already been more than once obvious about the message that was sent to debate the report, so I'm not going to do it right now. As regards the rights of older people and in the opening speech, I apostropheed it as an extremely important topic, it is about people who live alone, based on their age and statistics when you look at it, 1/3 of the elderly are at risk of poverty and 1/2 of those who live alone, and I also pointed out that older people were particularly vulnerable during the epidemic, especially in the pre-vaccination phase and after the earthquake, I think that the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County is actually naked to what extent people throughout Croatia do not have the same availability of public services, especially here I mean the availability of social services that are crucial to older people such as daily stay or help in homes that are not available. Also, I think the state needs to take better care of the elderly, including a better control system when we talk about a country for the elderly, I think we have a lack of measures... family and professional life, and I'm actually talking about fosterers of powerless parents, in insufficient accommodation facilities in more financially accessible homes and non-transparent waiting lists, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got... in public space, however, we must make our position public and clear at once, I do not think it is necessary to set up a new Ombudsman institution for the elderly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that this might give additional visibility to these topics because it would be the only job and the only mandate of such an institution, but also, I think that development should be monitored in other countries, we have special defenders for gender equality, children and persons with disabilities, which exists in other European countries unlike those of the Ombudsman for the elderly, which is not some model of institutions that is broadly present, among other things there is no convention for older people, but that is why I try to advocate among other things and I have also advocated it so far. As for the presentation of Representative Rasputic, I must say I have no problem answering questions about these reports. So, I'm not hiding that I was a deputy former lawyer for 7.5 years, and also before that, I was a counsellor before that, Attorney General Malcic. What I'm trying to say is that I think that defence institutions, the institution of the attorney general, is both a person and an institution. It's an institution like you yourself said in which a large number of people actually work, they're advisors, institution employees expert in certain areas. Of course, the special responsibility is borne by the person in charge, and that is the responsibility I am now carrying, and I am aware that I will actually be more demanding to defend the following report than to defend these reports. Because all these different issues that you are now opening up about the selection of topics etc., but also the question of the methodology of making reports will be on my lap and my responsibility. In doing so, I am extremely pleased to hear that you appreciate that 95% of the content is actually justified, 5% is not justified, but here I want to say something else, the institution has been working seriously all this time and is talking about social rights on issues that plague citizens, however, these topics such as "For Home Ready" etc. They're actually getting a lot of media attention. I must also note that I have not started with any such subject in my presentation in my address to the Parliament today, except for MPs raised such topics. I will not run away from them and, of course, I will answer what my views and positions are about the current legal framework and what the Constitution and the laws tell me, but I would also like to say that, considering the competence of this institution, I should also consider that the media are particularly interested in these topics and these topics are somehow coming across a much stronger echo than some other topics that I appreciate are very important. As far as the performance is concerned, I absolutely think it is necessary to pass the new Implementing Law, which is also a recommendation from the 2020 report. and I will continue to advocate legislative changes in this area, including regarding the conduct of the Agency for the collection of claims. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the social state is the fact that the additional epidemic and earthquakes have made the situation difficult and brought new challenges to people who were unable to work because of the pandemic, pay and did not actually recover from the previous crisis and are now in an even more difficult position than before, and we also record the long-standing conduct of courts in the executive procedures for which the Executive Law provides for urgency. As for the fact that we provide consulting services, I don't really agree with that. And finally, about the right of patients and the suffering of patients related to the tumour clinic, I opened the subject on my own initiative not based on a complaint, but I also don't think I have to go public with everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48355	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48356	Respected. I have a short question since you are here in the Parliament now, and what do you think about the double executive regime that is now in the Republic of Croatia, for example for parking will go to court, and let's say someone who was born in Croatia will go to the public notebook, here's what you think of that double standard? And why, in your opinion, would it be okay for people in Croatia to discriminate on this matter? If you are going to respond that you want to relieve courts, then there are examples of countries such as Slovenia that would have a centralized executive court where automatic utility accounts would, for example, be sent there electronically and thus resolved without any fees. So here's what I'm interested in what you think of a double executive regime that, at this point, is in accordance with the Act of Conduct in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48357	The esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48358	Well, honestly, I'm going to tell you that I don't really know enough about a specific case right now, but I would also like to ask you, since you say that it is discrimination against Croatian citizens about discrimination on the basis of what discriminatory grounds would this be? Excuse me. [[We can't answer that.]] But it's not discrimination under the Anti-discrimination Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48359	Thank you very much. We are now moving to the final presentations of the clubs of MPs and the first one on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club will speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48360	Your Honor. Since this is the final exposure, I'm only going to point out three points. The first is that the fact that we are discussing these reports three years after the main problems in these reports have actually been described, in itself represents the negation of the rule of law and is evidence of the abduction of institutions by the HDZ government, which in every way denies the rights and the constitutional rights and freedoms of its citizens. So much for not the people's power. The second thesis, the second argument, is the failure of criticism sent by one part of the opposition, which focused more on whether we need an institution of the attorney general and how much we pay at the annual level, for what all these recommendations are for if they are not implemented. So we've heard the words that the report itself is a masochistic literature in which, what Mr. Detachment is going to be some kind of stamping... I don't know what to call this one of yours, except by one monstrous attempt to offend an institution that is of great importance and importance from the point of view of human rights and fundamental freedoms. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And if we are talking about why recommendations have not been implemented then we need to talk about responsibility and the guilt of the authorities, as well as about our responsibility as parliamentarians. The third subject and third point concerns some parts of this report, so of all the rights in which our citizens are threatened, I would point out that social poverty is one of the most important and important issues. That's what we almost didn't devote ourselves to today, we didn't talk about where the social security system was scheduled, we didn't talk about how to compensate it through this body's legislative activities, we didn't talk about how we're going to take any step. Poverty is what our citizens are most affected by, especially those older, especially those who live alone and especially women. This is among other things about the quality of this country, the more we witness that those who have accomplished full-time work and have been paying into the pension system since their retirement can't live with dignity. So much for how much our generation can trust the country it lives in and where it creates. And if we're not going to be this SS reunion that's going to deal with these issues and these problems, I don't know if we're even worthy of the roles and tasks that we all have together. It is also a major problem for our judiciary, not only because of corruption, not only because of the non-trust that citizens in our system have, but I will say that the problem is also secondary, which is the quality of the law in certain areas of law. So, Mr. I will dissipate when the attorney general says it is necessary to pass the new Executive Act, it does not mean that it has also entered into the role of the Croatian Parliament or that it has denied the will of the people or that it has entered into any legislative interventionism. This just means that on the basis of the examples from the practice, it has shown that this body needs to come up with a new system, and we will all agree that our system of performance is very bad. On the one hand, they are slow and ineffective, so they do not protect the executive, and on the other hand they are very unfair to the perpetrator who imposes unnecessary multiple costs and procedures and interest itself without talking about the role of the financial institution. As far as law is concerned, we also see that the system is ineffective, that we have to make extensive changes, all of these are topics that should come to the agenda, one quality debate in which we will face arguments, and in which all of what the Ombudsman has described will actually be the basis for a quality debate based on life examples and on experience in practice. And if we want to be worthy of the roles of particularly opposition MPs, then first of all, we must not allow HDZ authorities to discuss the report of the attorney general not in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48361	Thank you very much. The following will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc MP Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48362	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club, I would like to thank you for the comprehensive and detailed reports published every year about your work by the Ombudsman institution and for which we have to say that both incentives and inspiration for the different types of legislative activities we have here because we believe that this is what these reports should serve. I would like to point out that how, in fact, what actually leads to the non-functioning of institutions in Croatia. Prime Minister Plenkovic's personal animosity towards former occupier Lorri Vidovic has led to the fact that the entire chain of activities, institutional activities prescribed by law regarding the constitutional category of the attorney general's office, has been blocked for 3 years. So when personal preferences and animosities prevail over both the law and the parliamentary procedures and the Constitution of this country, then we can say goodbye to the rule of law. And that's no less, no more modus operandi of the prime minister, when someone personally resents him. When we got these reports on the table all of a sudden all three and a fourth that we're going to have a special discussion about at the moment when we got a new occupier I really welcome, and I believe they're going to do a good job, but this isn't about people, this is about an institution. It doesn't matter if it's Laura Vidovic, if it's someone else, third, female, male, older, younger, what's important is that it's a constitutional institution, the Constitution prescribed. And the way the prime minister treated the institution also shows his attitude towards the Constitution and the laws in general. The way they are, in which they were debated here in one part of the debate today, about the report itself, shows that there is actually no understanding of the function of the attorney general. A colleague, I'm not going to call, mentioned here that what this institution serves in the first place when, in the team and team, those cases, the attorney general did nothing concrete. And now I have to say that all that her colleague listed was every year, every year, in the police counsel's reports. The first one, the first one in the media, raised by the attorney general and the problems that people have with the law enforcement agencies. In the reports for a number of years, the fact that we don't get these reports or that some at least self-initiatively don't read them is another problem, but to say why the attorney general didn't solve it means not to understand that the function of the attorney general is to generalize systemic problems, those who systematically violate human rights to report it and what should have happened, then we should go to these clubs, sit down for the computer and write bill proposals based on recommendations, and not ask the attorney general why she didn't stop the demand agency that literally yelled when it was supposed to be, spoke out loud in the media, in reports, and then come here and then someone tells them that they didn't, that they didn't address it. So I think it's really people disrespecting their own relationship to work, so sit down and read it. Most of the report is focused and this is a very big break from, say, 10 years ago, what most of the report deals with economic and social rights because these are the issues that are of daily importance to citizens. And I think it's very important because it shows how systematically the rights of citizens are being violated. Here on behalf of the Green-Left bloc, I would like to say that all the recommendations that were here in this regard, especially in that section, will be the subject of our further legislative initiatives and I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48363	The next club of representatives is the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. He's gone. He is losing his right to speak, and the next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney general, co-workers and colleagues. So, once again on behalf of the counsel club, I must express our dissatisfaction with discussing more reports at once. There is a reason why they are annual, and there is a reason why we should discuss them in my opinion, because at the end of the day, we, by way of an act of voting, support the work of the attorney general whom we have chosen and to whom we have transferred, or have authorised her to worry on our behalf about the exercise of the rights of our citizens. Therefore, it is not the whim of our club or of our attorneys or individuals to discuss this every year, to read this report very well each year, especially the recommendations, and to see where the implementation problems were, if any. From 2016 I see 65% of the recommendations are answered and they have either been implemented or at least discussed with their implementation. The latest report, i.e. the latest reports we have not discussed in this House so far, show a significant decline in that percentage, and it is simply unacceptable because, as I said, these reports have a purpose, which is essentially a lacmus paper for the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia and help us as a legislator to direct our legislative and other initiatives in a way that these problems are resolved, i.e. that possible violations of the rights of our citizens, insufficiently agreed laws and so on, are corrected. Unfortunately, and there, counterpart Bencic was right, many still do not understand what is the role of the occupier and specialised defence attorneys. Not only in this House, but also in the general public, and therefore the added value of this debate is actually raising public awareness of what this institution is, what needs to be done and in which case it should be addressed. I would certainly commend the practice of the attorney general and those before and these present to all those who address her, regardless of whether the institution of the Ombudsman, i.e. the institution is relevant to take steps. So, the complaints you're getting, and I know that they're different from the judgment complaints, which, clearly, you don't have any jurisdiction to any other violation of the law or similar things, which you can't answer, or you can't handle, but you can refer to a person who needs to be addressed if that problem is to be solved. Therefore, I will conclude as the SDP Club, we will support these Reports, thus giving support to the Advocate General who, whose mandate these Reports are made for, is Mrs. Lora Vidovic, whose work we greatly appreciated and by the very act of supporting these reports, we want to finally valorize him as something extremely positive. Also, I wish the current attorney and her team much happiness in the work, I hope that the first report we receive from your mandate will be discussed in the first quarter of next year, so that it will be relevant and, as long as we are in progress, so to speak, to some normal time frame on it. Also, I thank Attorney-General Lori Vidovic, to you, I say, I wish you good luck and you will always have an ally in keeping the standards we have reached human rights in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48365	The next club of representatives will be that Mosta in the name of which the respected representative Nino Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48366	I will also discover hot water and express regret that these three reports come too late, which is not the fault of this institution but of the Assembly, why not put it on the agenda before, and I will regret it because we cannot question the signator here, more specifically the signator of these reports, as much as the current new attorney general has been working in this Office, yet I do not consider her responsible or responsible for these reports, but it is the former Ombudsman who signed them and I am sorry and I will repeat once again that a good custom should be in the Assembly, and the same situation we have seen with the state attorney, that those who signed the reports, when they come to the agenda in the Assembly and answer to questions about these reports. We can't and won't support these reports from the Bridge Club, and these are some of the reasons. These reports show that the Office has too little effect in relation to its size and the finances it spends. We don't mind the pro-active game of the attorney general, nor the legislative activation, but we think he's been done the wrong way. In that sense, with these means and the number of people, many sins, failures were committed, were to be played more actively, when we were already in some other things and also into legislative activation. There was a conflict with the institutions, instead of dialogue, and above all I think of the Croatian police and this fact that the Attorney General's Office has de facto encouraged illegal migration and relativated the criminal act of illegal and violent border crossing, and in some situations also slandered the Croatian police in things that later proved to be untrue. Then, I see, in these reports some proposals that undermine not only the foundations of the Constitution but the very idea of the Republic. Then there are problematic proposals for ethnic count, then some proposals that discriminate, suggest discrimination based on nationality. And what is most important for the 2020 Report is a completely disproportionate focus on topics. I will repeat once again, this fact that the topic of the coronary crisis and the measures that restrict human rights has taken only ten pages of 264 is, in my opinion, a big problem that is already enough in itself to drop this report for 2020. These are the reasons why we will not support these reports, but I want to finally express in the end the sincerest good wishes that the new Ombudsman will respect these criticisms, that he will work differently and better than his predecessor, that the Parliament will put into debate in the first quarter of the year and that you will give us reasons to support him with satisfaction. In that sense, my good wishes are sincere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48367	Now, finally, on behalf of the rapporteur, the esteemed Ombudsman Tena Simonović Einwalter will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48368	Thank you very much. I'm glad that what I wanted in the opening statement, and that's the debate that's largely relevant, was actually like that. And we discussed the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. That's something else I want to remind you of. For years, this institution was required by law to give the Croatian Parliament a report on its work, and during the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman, it was last amended and this report, it is a report on the state of human rights. It's not just a report on the state of human rights, it's a report of as many as five different mandates. It is also a report on the prevention of discrimination as a central authority for the prevention of discrimination, the report and us as a national preventive mechanism under the Convention on the Prohibition of Learning and the report as external reporting bodies for irregularities, etc. What I also think we should all work on is a better understanding of the role of this institution. Everywhere in society by citizens and in this House of Highs. In relation to some of these questions, in fact, the Law on the Ombudsman gives answers. For example, the issue of specific reports repeated several times in accordance with Article 16(2). The Law on the Ombudsman, the Attorney General, may submit specific reports. So he can and doesn't have to. The Attorney General, the Attorney General, chooses this. But yes, I think it's a good tool. Also, there was a lot of talk about pandemics, earthquakes. It's also an election. Therefore, the methodology of making a report whether everything regarding the pandemic is put into one chapter or interpelled through the entire report in all areas of life where the pandemic produced effects or wrote a special report is a matter of strategic election decisions. Compared to this report for 2020, I would like to say, however, that this chapter of 10 pages is actually just a framework for decision-making on crowns, and otherwise, the pandemic is horizontally interpelled in many areas and work and health, etc. About the relationship between the Ombudsman and the Croatian Parliament, and it is regulated by law. The Croatian Assembly can point to the need to adopt and amend laws and other regulations. So it's not about some particular activism, it's again one of the powers given to us by the legislator, or you. Also in relation to the Government, Article 18. The Attorney General may point to the Government's need to pass laws. It is also regulated by law and public relations, etc. But it's just one of our laws. For example, it is quite unusual in the European context, but the Croatian Law on Discretion of Discrimination to the Ombudsman even requires the institution to cooperate with civil society organisations, trade unions, employers, churches and religious communities. For example, during the debate, I was honored to have previously collaborated with the Standard for Peace Studies. Co-operation with civil society associations is a legal obligation of the attorney general. I would like to point out to you, for example, good practices when the Law on Discretion of Discrimination came into effect, it is precisely a project that was implemented on the one hand by the Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. On the other hand, the institutions of the Polish Ombudsman then Jurica Malcic and on the third hand the Civil Society Association, the Peace Studies Centre, received extraordinary results in the interest of all. It therefore carried out a campaign on the entry into force of the law, research on the perception of discrimination and prejudice in the Republic of Croatia. As part of it, education was conducted, and that's what I'm saying when I say that a public defender should be a bridge. It is one wheel in the system, a fine mechanism where it is not easy to distinguish the path from the policy and what is the role of the attorney general. I would like to point out that what I think is immeasurably important is the independence of this institution. But I also want to connect independence with efficiency and independence and efficiency in order to actually have what we need is the support of the Croatian Parliament. Because to remind you again, it's an authority, or I'm your authority. This cooperation also applies to state administration bodies, as well as to many other stakeholders. For example, we haven't talked at all today about what we're doing in relation to the private sector. It is not easy to explain to citizens that of these five mandates, we are in charge of the private sector, and we are not in three. I have to say that another question that we didn't particularly deal with today is that the role of this office is also to be available to citizens. Receiving parties, so you kind of have people talking to us who are usually those who don't go to lawyers, usually those who aren't sure whether to go to court or not. And among other things, at no cost, without any legal knowledge, I can get help from what's bothering them. But they also build trust in an institution. In addition, it is also a role in both prevention and education. Perhaps the most important topic that has opened today that I want to take advantage of this opportunity to talk about, because I will not be given and probably for the next year when I will be provided we will see the question is what is the support of the institutions by the Croatian Parliament? On the one hand, there has been a lot of talk today about the dynamics and discussion of the report being important, and I agree when and the debate affects whether the voice of the citizens who addressed us during the year is heard or not by complaints. The faster he hears it, the better because the problems are very current when they speak to us. By the logic of the thing when you're doing a report, you're already doing it backwards for the past year and you're always reporting for the year before, and that's why there shouldn't be a delay in the debate. However, the issue of support is something else. It's a matter of voting on reports. As far as we know in practice, there were three options, adoption, knowledge-taking or refusals in relation to law enforcement institutions so far. I would like to say, in fact, that unlike the special defenders, the only institution of the Public Ombudsman is the institution where, after the vote is held, there is no effect on the term of office of the head or head of the body. So when I advocate not to vote on reports, it is not because if my future reports are rejected it means the end of the term of office to me, as it means to fellow special lawyers, which is unquestionably the issue of the independence of defence institutions. Why do I open that question, because it's a matter of implementing recommendations. What is absolutely clear to me is that if the reports are rejected one message is sent to those to whom the recommendations are addressed, the authorities of the state administration. If it is adopted, a completely different message is sent. The question, however, is what message is sent with the knowledge. Notifying it does not have to be a negative message if it is followed by a clear message, as a rule, by the Government of State Administration Authorities, that recommendations should be implemented. It is, of course, up to you as parliamentary deputies, and it is absolutely your legitimate right to vote on the reports however you feel you should. I'm not going to get into that at all, but I'm looking at what's going on for the institution and its effectiveness in the effect of the individual vote. And that's why I think that this story should actually be opened in a principled way, getting to know just some reports, and some don't, I actually think it's a problem message. If in the future we were to go to a serious debate on this and decide that all reports are being taken into account so that we would actually remove the pressure and the assessment of this plus or minus, which is then given to the lawyers, and in fact I repeat the reports are not about the work of the Ombudsman but about the state of human rights, and the question is, in fact, who is then given plus or minus by voting on the report. I think it is a very important topic to think about and discuss, and in the future it may also be that we change the framework completely, for example, by amending the Rules of Procedure for which you are responsible again. So, to decide not to vote in the Republic of Croatia on reports. I told you that we did an analysis in the office that shows that indeed there are a huge number of institutions in Europe that are discussing their annual reports in the assembly. There are some who don't argue at plenary sessions and these colleagues tell us that they'd like to have their day at the assembly. I think it's a privilege for these institutions to have a day in the assembly, to have the opportunity to discuss with parliamentary deputies. However, I do not think that voting must be part of it and in the vast majority of European countries it is not. All together, there are 6 European countries voting on the report when I say Europeans, I mean across Europe, the Council of Europe, not the EU. So what I'm saying is that what's important to me right now is that we think about this long and principled. I think it's important because what is an unwanted consequence if a message is sent that recommendations should not be implemented then we actually do harm not only to each other but to citizens and to those systems where I think citizens deserve improvement, they deserve it from all of us, so the mechanism does exist. So, of course, you will vote however you feel you should, but I appeal to you to support the recommendations and to think together in the future about how we can make the implementation mechanism stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48369	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, respected MPs, just a little please stay, the honourable representative Lukačić first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48370	Thank you very much. The esteemed attorney here you are, in fact, obliged to care in some way about all the rights of our citizens and I have no doubt that you will do so, but here it would be convenient for you to see here in your term as a clear advice for you to mention as much as possible that we are not the only representatives who are here involved in the regulation, to participate, to talk about the positive regulations, so what is good for our Croatian citizens. And I'm saying that because you mentioned the earthquake and so on. how we made it possible by the Law of Reconstruction for all our citizens, that is, the majority of Croatian defenders and persons with disabilities and our citizens who, who are hard to live, are socially threatened not to They pay no kuna for restoring their apartments and houses. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48371	The esteemed attorney general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48372	Actually, I couldn't agree more with you. The role of the institution must, however, not only be critical but also notice positive tendencies and all the positive things that are done, and the more positive from the aspect of improving human rights and combating discrimination the better, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48373	There is also a respected representative, Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48374	Thank you. So here I would only for the end if you could point out some two, three key things that are in the Croatian Parliament domain, which priorities should be addressed urgently through the legislative initiative for this year because of course there are many recommendations, they are all relevant by area, but I guess they don't have all the same weight and urgency, so here I think that would be a good, good input for the end of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48375	The esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48376	Here's this fast, three laws that seem extremely important to me to be passed, two that need to be passed, one that needs to be changed. The Social Care Act is a new adoption, the Act of Conduct and the Act on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity to amend and supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u48377	Thank you very much for that. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will now move to the next point, which is: - Report on the right to a healthy life and climate change in the Republic of Croatia (2013-20). in the context of the global movement for climate and pandemic Covid-19, the applicant is the Ombudsman based on Article 16. The law of the Attorney General. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed Attorney General Tena Shimonović Einwalter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49180	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives and representatives, two years ago and two months ago in Zagreb, Split, Pula, Varazdin, Križevci and Bela Manastir, and later in Rijeka and Sibenik, the first in Croatia to protest youth for the rescue of the climate. They supported many citizens, teachers, scientists, environmental activists in the field of human rights, but also decision makers in the Croatian Parliament, heads of state. Is support still here in the Croatian Parliament then? Do we think enough about our children and our young? Do we have enough of our constitutional values for nature and the environment? Is the air we breathe daily clean? Are our waters and soil protected to the highest extent possible? And finally a question for you, is the Croatian Parliament ready to accept the recommendation and declare the climate and environmental crisis as the European Parliament did in 2019? A year and 2 months ago, the World Health Organization declared a pandemic and on the same day, the Minister of Health declared the outbreak of a new infectious disease, Covid-19, in the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from HZZZ. We know that environmental pollution and the nature of climate change and the pandemic are among the greatest challenges for all mankind, decision makers and the system of human rights. The UN points out that just now the pandemic is the best indicator of the interconnection between fundamental rights and freedoms with concern for the environment of nature conservation and human health. It's about a unique approach to health, planet health, animal health, human health, I think we've all become very aware of each other's connection, but also the connection between fundamental rights and freedoms, human rights and environmental care. In these circumstances, this special report on the right to a healthy environment and climate change in the Republic of Croatia was drawn up from 2013 to 2020 in the context of the global climate and pandemic movement Covid-19. It is a special report drawn up on the basis of the powers laid down in the Law on the Ombudsman. It gives an overview of international mechanisms within the UN, the EU and the Council of Europe. Analysis of the right to a healthy life in the Republic of Croatia through various environmental components air, water and soil. It points to problems with waste management, noise pollution and light pollution, and shows the impact of extreme events related to climate change such as floods and fires on the achievement of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, concluded by February 2021. Again little about the methodology, it is based on data from the examination procedures under complaints from citizens, initiatives and associations, as well as procedures launched on its own initiative, for example on the catastrophic flood in the 2014 Vukovar-Srijem County, on which a special report was also submitted. There are increased levels of arsenic and iron and ammonium in water for human consumption in eastern Slavonia from 2017, the Split fire from 2017, the fire at the waste disposal of Prudinac in Jakushevec in 2019, and indeed many visits by colleagues and colleagues by flooded areas, waste dumps, for example Lončarica Velika, Karepovac, Prudinac, the waste management centres Kaštijun and Mariščina and other localities in 14 counties in the Republic. It should be recalled that we have been reporting on the state of the environment and the right to a healthy life as an institution since 2013 in annual reports and in this particular chapter on environmental protection and the right to a healthy life. During this period, the institution made 72 recommendations for improving the system of environmental and human rights. 28 has been repeated for several years, but what has been defeated is that only six have been completed in full and 8 have been partially executed. For all of this, it is important to stress that climate change is not only a technical scientific or political issue, it is a question of the future of the present and new generations of our young and our children. They are a social issue that affects all aspects of life and rights. They are directly linked to the protection of the environment and all its components, nature and health unseparated from economic development, but only acceptable through sustainable development where the most possible level of environmental protection, nature and health as this report looks at them. The aim to achieve this specific report is primarily to promote and strengthen the constitutional right to a healthy life and strengthen access to climate change and to protect the environment and nature from the human rights aspect. More and more activities are related to the right to a healthy life as defined in Article 70. The Constitution, or the right to a healthy environment, as it is called in the international context of the UN and the EU. For example, the role of human rights defenders dealing with environmental protection is increasingly recognised, the first complaints were launched by UN contractual authorities, the UN Human Rights Committee made the first decision on climate refugees. According to the 2020 data, some 300 procedures were conducted before the European Court of Human Rights for the protection of the environment, such as pollution, pollution, natural disasters, access to environmental information in which the court considered the right to life, freedom of speech and family life. In 2020, the first climate change lawsuit was also filed in which 33 countries are being sued for not doing enough to mitigate the consequences of climate change due to the threat of life rights was caused by forest fires from 2017, which killed more than 120 people in Portugal. The intensity of these fires is linked to global warming and greenhouse gas emissions. The same year the fire entered the city of Split and hit the waste dump of Karepovac. Lucky for us, there were no casualties. In accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman, this institution is obliged to inform the public of the observed occurrences and the established violations of constitutional and legal rights as appears to be the submission of this report. It points to the shortcomings observed in previous work, environmental and nature protection areas, public health, climate change and extraordinary events. One of the conclusions of the report is that the Republic of Croatia is late with the adoption of key documents on environmental protection and sustainable development such as the Environment Plan, the Sustainable Development Strategy of Croatia, as the previous one expired in 2019 and the Low Carbon Development Strategy, which was discussed on the Committee for Nature and Environment Protection this morning. Unfortunately, projects are still planned that are not environmentally acceptable. It builds and opens waste management centres, from which sulphur-leading and floating particles are being broadcast from which citizens are complaining because they have health problems. They're worried, and some of them are angry. From what I have already been described, I think it is clear that due to insufficiently developed environmental awareness of a part of the citizens, but also to insufficiently developed environmental awareness of the importance of environmental protection, nature, climate and human health, we have an insufficiently high level of exercise of the right to a healthy life. The primary objective of the Environmental Protection Act is not achieved, which is to protect life and health. The principle of sustainable development, the precautionary principle that requires a higher level of environmental and health protection, also applies insufficiently. These shortcomings, which need to be corrected in particular, I point out because of young people who pay special attention in this report, because it is young people who are most articulating that they want to make a positive change because they are increasingly aware that in the near future the environmental and climate change problems will be growing, and they will remain. As you know soon after the first protest, Greta Thunberg in front of the Swedish Parliament, young people around the world began to stage protests, so-called Fridays for the climate, so did our young ones, as I first pointed out. They submitted eight requests to the Croatian Parliament and the Government. They were completely transferred to the report. The report mentions a request from scientists for a system-based climate action from January 2020. The ultimate goal of this report is to protect and improve the right to a healthy life and human rights protection system in Croatia. It contains 19 recommendations. We're not talking about a huge number of recommendations right now like in the Annual Report. 19 recommendations are the number of recommendations that can really be discussed if there is a will to discuss them in detail. The recommendations are one that I mentioned to the Croatian Parliament, while others refer to the Government, Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Civil Engineering, spatial planning and state property, the Ministry of Science and Education, and the State Inspectorate. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is recommended to include youth associations and representatives in the planning and development of public policies in the field of environmental protection and sustainable development. As regards water protection, it is recommended to publish an analysis of the effectiveness of the protection of drinking water, water supply and water supply facilities that are primarily preventive and go hand in hand with an earlier recommendation, i.e. an initiative to recognise water rights, i.e. the constitution of water rights. Something Slovenia has not done yet. The report also describes the emergence of increased arsenic, iron and ammonia levels in water for human consumption in Eastern Slavonia from 2017. There has also been an adoption of a multi-year recommendation during earlier advocacy to provide citizens who cannot pay the bill with a minimum amount of water that must not be denied, and the conditions and criteria for suspending and restricting the supply of water are prescribed, something which is very much linked again to the pandemic and to prevention. Cases of fire have been highlighted in the report regarding air protection. It was already mentioned in 2018, which affected the town of Split and the dump of Karepovac, and the fire that by self-incineration of bulky and other types of waste broke out inside the Prudinac dump in July 2019. In both cases, notifying the public about air quality, and the possible health hazards, at least according to our assessment, were not timely and complete. On the website of the Institute of Public Health which is also authorised for air quality monitoring laboratories, I announce that emissions did not exceed the limit values allowed and that there is no reason to be upset, although overruns of floating particles and sulphur water have been reported on the days of the fire. Furthermore, air analyses did not really cover everything that might have been needed, for example, by all polluting substances. The Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development in the report is recommended that improved air quality monitoring, in particular, of floating particles, by establishing all measurement stations in the state air quality monitoring network. For soil protection, it is recommended to designate a body for the implementation of systematic soil monitoring and to prescribe a ground monitoring obligation in the assessment of environmental impact. Given that the soil is also an environmental component, however, it has been neglected in the current legislative framework. In Croatia, there is no special law on soil protection, but the soil is actually indirectly protected through other laws and strategies. In the area of waste management, citizens are particularly often talking to us about these other topics so far, and existing problems in the Republic of Croatia in this area are confirmed by the European Commission's 2020 report. In Croatia, 25% of municipal waste is recycled, and it delays 66 while in the European Union, and this is about the milk, so some countries make up a far better recycling of 50% of municipal waste and delays 20%. The example I want to mention is the residents of Marcellj, who have been complaining about the increased emissions of floating particles and sulfur in the air near the Mariščina Waste Management Centre since 2018. The institution also visited the Centre for Waste Management of Mariština and Kaštijun and recommended the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development to clearly define a legal framework in which MBO technology will not be applied in waste management centres, and to ensure the implementation of the necessary measures for effective protection of all environmental and health components in the locations where they are located. In this regard, it can also be commended the decision of the Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County of July 2020 to conduct an ecological study of the impact of CGO Mariština on the health of locals Marcelja and locals in the immediate vicinity within which an analysis of the soil on the presence of heavy metals will be carried out at a distance of 500 and 1000 m from the building of CGO Mariščina. That recommendation was made by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development of the Ombudsman. We consider her accepted. Citizens are often in fear and because of the hard evidence of the influence of non-ionising radiation on health, which we have actually received a significant number of complaints since 2014. The example is the Sinj village of Radosic in which residents torture with the base cell of a teleoperator located on a ruinous facility and for which a solution to the removal was issued 3 years ago, however, has not been removed. It is therefore recommended to make normatively advanced conditions for their setting up, but also removal, based on executive solutions. In doing so, while continuing to work on the expansion of consciousness, it should be noted that we are taking on a growing number of complaints from citizens and citizens' initiatives about these topics. In 2020, this was twice as much as in 2019, from 72 to 144, compared to 2017, the increase was 177%. Finally, in order to improve the right to a healthy life, we need public policies that are in line with the European Green Plan, the basis for the EU's recovery from the pandemic, as well as the EU's Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, which makes significant means available to the Republic of Croatia to implement the green and digital transition. A few days ago, the EU Commission received Croatia's Official Recovery and Resistance Plan, which requested grants totalling nearly 6.4 billion euros, based on 5 pillars, which include a green and digital economy. I hope that the plan will meet the Commission's criteria. We are aware that sustainable development, environmental protection and nature represent a comprehensive and complex cross-sectoral area. The role of this institution is to point to human rights in all of this. Realising the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but also by international contracts and laws of the Republic of Croatia, is exactly what this institution needs to do. This report is therefore drawn up with hope and faith that it will indeed contribute to the eco-aware policymaking and the same work of institutions and that its recommendations will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49181	Thank you. We've got more replicas. The first is the respected representative Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49182	Thank you very much, esteemed Attorney General. You have also given a number of recommendations in this report to different addresses, but unfortunately, according to what we see, all these recommendations are applied to a weak extent and adopted. Do you think environmental, water, sanitary, nature inspections are sufficiently controlled? Secondly, it is obvious that, now these existing legal and sublegal regulations should be either more or less altered, a little bit more elaborated or not applied, so here it is, there is a task for all of us to do so. And let's say, for example, a concrete example when it comes to air pollution, so people have a impaired quality of life, not just at risk of health, obviously needs these measurement units, or the method of measurement should be changed, the number of measurement stations needs to be increased, but obviously it should be put into legal regulations. What would you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49183	The esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49184	Yes, you're right, it's about four inspections under the State Inspectorate. So environmental inspection, water inspection in charge of water control, nature control, environmental protection inspection and water protection for human consumption, noise protection, non-ionising radiation, sanitary inspection. According to what we've experienced so far, it's actually shown that we have a particular problem where the inspectorate actually says it's something legal and then it becomes a question of whether it's enough. Looking at and that's why I think it's good to have in an institution in Croatia that unites different mandates, that this institution has remained exclusively an ombudsman institution that deals only with lawfulness, then we would say, everything is fine. However, in the mandate of the National Institute for the Protection of Human Rights, that something is legal, is not necessarily right and in this lies the whole core of what I actually said earlier when it comes to annual reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49185	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49186	The esteemed Attorney General. The title of this Report is the Report on the right to a healthy life and climate change in the Republic of Croatia 2013-2020 in the context of the global movement for climate and pandemic Covid-19 is obviously one piece of information so that it does not turn out to be completely ignored by an elephant in the room because there is not a single sentence in the report on pandemic but only one word, once mentioned the word pandemic, there is not a whole sentence. I sincerely ask you to tell me that you can go back a little bit, half a year and that you are then at the head of this office, would you make a special report to the Human Rights Council in the Covid-19 pandemic and leave climate change for another occasion or would you do the same report?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49187	The esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49188	As far as the pandemic is concerned, there are links, and it's not an accident in the title of this pandemic report. On the one hand, it is related to the loss, or destruction of the natural habitats of animals and the various possible causes of pandemics, zoonoses, etc., but not to go further into it. The next question is, in fact, that the pandemic has stopped various economic activities and has in some way shown exactly how much a man harms nature and has shown that much of what is said in this report is very much talking about human activity and is one of the few positive effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and finally, the pandemic recovery can also, as I said in the final section of the opening address, be associated with these issues. Compared to your question of going back, I'd say like this. This isn't the report that exclusively related to 2020. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49189	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49190	Thank you very much, esteemed Attorney General. My question is about air quality. The report states that there is a network of measurement cells that should probably be held by the Institute of Public Health as an institution that should take care of the health of the population of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm interested in what citizens can do when the Institute of Public Health at their measuring stations measures nothing but, for example, follow mosquito liqueurs in Slavonia because it's a number one issue although we have very serious contaminants nearby who have to measure it according to some laws that they have to comply with but have no double control. What citizens in these situations can do when they don't actually have some extra parameters to rely on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49191	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49192	What seems to me to be most useful here is the recommendation number six from this report by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development to improve air quality monitoring, especially by establishing all measurement stations in the state air quality monitoring network. In fact, as we know, the state network could use measurement stations owned by pollutants until the establishment of six new measurement stations in the state network by 2019 at the latest. But so far none have been established. According to ministry data, this should be realised during 2021. And until then, for the assessment of pollution is actually in the context of the current agglomeration of Split, for example, using data with two measurement polluters, only one measurement station owned by a state network that is not yet near, but located on Vis. That's certainly not satisfactory. When you're talking about air quality, I think we have on the one hand the question of measurement, on the other hand the timely and incomplete notification of air quality in relation to possible health hazards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49193	Time. Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney general, Covid 19, has caused tectonic changes. The government of the Republic of Croatia has defined primarily for the health security of citizens, but also taking into account the economic consequences and preservation of jobs both in the public and private sectors. Several countries that were most hit by covid 19 such as Italy and Spain, but also the countries that were most successful in controlling these diseases, such as South Korea, Australia and New Zealand, put green development at the heart of their covid recovery strategy. The rapid global transition to clean energy not only meets the Paris Agreement's goal but also improves air quality to this extent so that the resulting health outcomes double return investment costs. And as the World Health Organization Director General has said, returning to the old normal is not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49195	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49196	All I can say is that I absolutely agree with you. Every crisis is also an opportunity, every recovery is also an opportunity to do something better. When rebuilding after an earthquake should not be built in the old wrong, but in a new way. When we recover from the pandemic that changed the world we should do it on, watching out as you said green development and protection of health. Absolutely! We can also link economic recovery to human rights. I must say, for example, it is absolutely clear to me when we talk about the importance of tourism for the Republic of Croatia. Well, of course it's important. Of course, it is important in terms of human rights because all those recommendations in those annual reports that require, for example, the raising of a guaranteed minimum fee or greater compensation in different areas, investment in public health, etc. It's about funds that have to come from the state budget. Economic recovery is very necessary so that in years before us we can all jointly provide Croatian citizens with all those human rights, especially social rights that require funding. So why don't you take advantage of it? the opportunity for economic recovery to be just like that – green. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49197	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49198	The esteemed Ombudsman is a well-known problem of large air pollution in Slavonski Brod, which I have already talked about here and referred the question to three ministers about the problem, but the answer I have received and half the research cannot satisfy the citizens of Slavonski Brod. My question is why certain institutions cannot specifically investigate what pollution is to make it easier to approach the problem and in fact to find a solution to this problem, because the right of citizens to both clean air and to healthy life is at stake here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49199	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49200	I'll take the opportunity to introduce you to what's listed for this report. So, yes, in Slavonski Brod, as you well know, the excesses of floating particles and sulphur water have been recorded since 2010. However, their impact on health was not monitored until 2016 when the Croatian Institute of Public Health started making an Impact Study and environmental factors on human health but not on its own initiative, but among other things because of the tenacity and local civil initiative for clean air and the fact of citizens' insistence. It was actually supposed to be the same, so the study was completed in 2020. It should contain an analysis of the concentration of metal in blood, hair, urine, lung infection in accordance with the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the 2017 report and subsequently included the parameters of floating particles and gases. So, as I'm sure you also know, the work on gasification of the Bosnian Ship's oil refinery was supposed to end in 2020. According to us, the available data release into the gas pipeline has been delayed due to the epidemic. So again we have a pandemic connection With what was planned, and I hope that they will continue soon. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49201	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49202	Thank you very much. The esteemed attorney you spoke of 19 recommendations so now I'm interested in what seems to me in principle only that they are written and I don't think the next report will be able to evaluate them in the way they're written. Let us say to the Government two and three, that youth associations and representatives include in the planning and development of all public policies for environmental protection and sustainable development, as measured, in a subsequent report. Which means, no, to stop the planning and realization of projects that use fossil fuels and all others that are not in line with sustainable development. It's a brave recommendation like this, we stop everything, and we'll see where we'll be in a few years, in which time period we'll do this when we have another strategy to discuss tomorrow talks about some 300,000 maximum vehicles in 2050 on an alternative drive. How it goes with each other and we're just writing or writing it just to write, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49203	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49204	Well, here's my court's recommendation number two to the government is not at all difficult to realise, and Recommendation number three is something more difficult to realize. How do you implement Recommendation number two? So when I mentioned three different documents that should be made. When setting up a working group, expert working groups and discussing strategic documents should include associations and representatives of young people dealing with this topic. So it even seems to me enough and easy to make it happen. Therefore, working groups are better off when they are a pluralist, when they include experts from different disciplines and when they include not only representatives of the state administration body but also civil society organisations and academic community experts. I really believe that's the case, and I don't think it's particularly difficult to make it happen. Of course, it's not always easy to choose who you will specifically from the representatives, but I believe that with good will you can. As regards Recommendation No 3 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to stop project planning and implementation who use fossil fuels and all others who are not in line with sustainable development, it is clear to me that it is one of the recommendations that goes from this human right angle, not considering absolutely everything that anyone is considering from another perspective. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49205	Next replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49206	I wanted to check since you mention in the report the final development of the low-carbon strategy, i.e. the low-carbon development strategies which your opinion is actually about the same because it is in the parliamentary procedure. As much as you think she's ambitious and she's good, I don't think I saw in the public hearing report that you took part in it as an office, so here I was curious about your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49207	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49208	Well, I have to say, I haven't been able to deal with this issue personally, so I wouldn't want to say anything casually without reading the document, but I'd be happy to inform myself in the next few days, and then I'd be happy to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49209	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49210	Thank you. I would mention this for a start that after being presented here in the form in which the National Recovery and Resistance Plan was presented to me, it is truly fascinating for my colleague, Boris, that you can talk to the Ombudsman about the feasibility of these recommendations she made. I'm going to ask your attorneys, you've stated here that you lack one of the key and fundamental documents of the Sustainable Development Strategy, which is just one of the strategies, a key strategy that is missing this in the field of human rights, and I'm wondering if you can explain to us exactly what a Croatian citizen loses by the absence of such documents and to consider in your future reports, reports, I apologize, in terms of carrying out the recommendations you made as you get an assessment for your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49211	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49212	I would say that if there is a good will to adopt strategic documents, I specifically talked about the environmental protection plan and the new sustainable development strategy since the previous one expired, and I also mentioned the low-carbon development strategy that was discussed on the Committee on the Protection of Nature and the Environment this morning but which I could not attend since I had to attend the plenary session as a proposing. I'd say, on the one hand, good will is important, but on the other hand, it's also important to have a good time. Unfortunately, what I see too often in relation to strategic documents is even when they are brought in, in fact their composition and their measures inside are often what the bodies were already planning to do. What we need to do is one step away and aimly strategically think. That is the point of strategic documents, and then, in particular, action plans for their implementation. And it seems to me that just implementing is what's often missing. I think the citizens would get by having these keys The documents are brought in, and more to be brought in and implemented. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49213	Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49214	The esteemed attorney, as Parliament's representative of the 8th Election Unit, is in my focus of ecology, especially Mariscina, Kastijon, and then I'll talk about it later and when I hear you say you said that the Primorje-Gorski County is going to make a study a little cramp caught me in the stomach, then I'm a little scared. You know why? I will send you complete documentation, so the team of the city of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County wanted to build a garbage burner in the water protection area of Sušačka Draga. I'm going to send you a picture of the hidden documents, everything, and that we MOSTs didn't react in Rijeka, if we hadn't raised people on Vezica, Gornji, Donja Vežica, to the people of Sušaka Draga, that would have happened. Well, I'll send you complete documentation, so here you are on your side to do whatever you can to really preserve the nature and health of the people of Kvarner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49215	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49216	Absolutely, all the paperwork you have is very welcome. I will repeat here that my insight as well as everyone in the office will never be based on it and should not be based on which political option and which political party points to us, nor does the goal of someone concrete in this regard be to criticise or to praise any particular one. So, the goal is actually to do what is best from the perspective of protecting the rights of citizens and human rights, and that is best done by absolutely all information, so then the delivery of every documentation and every perspective is very welcome to do a better assessment of the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49217	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49218	For humanity, the greatest global challenge of the 21st century, the loss of biodiversity, the reduction of food and natural resources, the increase of droughts, fires and floods will be the biggest global challenge of the 21st century, the loss of biodiversity, the reduction of food and natural resources, the increase of droughts, the fires and floods that our country has encountered in Slavonski Brod even today when the refinery in the Bosnian Ship is in the remont. Your recommendations say that we should include young people in planning for the development of all public policies concerning the protection of the environment as I support, but we should certainly raise the awareness of all of us daily. Because if we don't act that way, I don't know what we're going to leave for our young generations. But my question National Development Strategy, the National Recovery Plan, do you think that this is also an opportunity for the green recovery of our country, of course, and the planet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49219	Of course I do. As I have pointed out before, however, I would like to say something else about children and young people. One part of the youth is conscious, one part of the youth thinks about the environment and thinks about the climate, one part not at all. I think it's important that a better and more learning about environmental protection is introduced into the entire school system. It's already done to a certain extent, but I don't think that's enough. I think that the new generations actually need to be made more aware. I think it's up to us grown-ups to raise awareness. Many will easily wash their hands and say to raise awareness in young people is already too late for us. Of course not. I'll be completely honest with you. This is really a new topic for me. I've dealt with a lot of things before, I haven't dealt with this one. The preparation for this debate was very useful to me, and I think I have to continue to deal with it and I have to learn about it. And I would like everyone who acts seriously at different functions in the Republic of Croatia also to accept that obligation, but also to work on education for children and young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49220	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representatives of Miletic, Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49221	Dear Mr. Sanader, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Mr. Bukarica, respected Mrs. Tena Shimonović Einwalter's female lawyer with her co-worker, respected colleagues, colleagues, Croatian peoples. This part of the report is good for me. So 30 pages. I read it with great interest. It encourages greater development of the ecological awareness of the importance of environmental protection, nature, climate, human health that causes low levels of achievement of the right to healthy life. As a theologian, I would like to remind myself of the fifth anniversary of Pope Franjo Laudato's encyclopaedics of the need for environmental protection, which calls for a reduction of fossil fuel use and which supports scientists at the point of view that global warming is also responsible for human activity. Encyclica was named after the cry of St. Francis "grateful be my Lord" who in the song "Creatures" resembles the fact that the country is our common home and that it is like the sister with whom we share existence and like the mother who takes us into her arms. Pope Franjo, Jorge Mario Bergoglio, here invites everyone to pay attention to the abuse, looting of the country, and to the ecological conversion. It stresses that there is growing concern about what is happening to the planet, and it sends a clear message that humanity is still capable of working together to build our common home because everything is not lost yet. The Pope’s encycle says: “The problem is urgent”. We've never hurt as much, abused our home together as in the last two hundred years. We all need to change our everyday behavior in order to live more sustainablely. The reduction of greenhouse gases requires honesty, courage, responsibility. Addressing climate change means protecting planets and vulnerable people, and we need to hear the country scream and cry out to the poor. The problems are big, says Pope Francis. On April 22nd, on the Day of Planet Earth, the Pope further said that the world is on edge and that mankind must avoid the path of self-destruction. And then he continues: "The crisis doesn't come out the same – we'll either be better or worse." It's a challenge, and if we don't get out better we'll go through self-destruction says Pope Francis. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the right to a healthy life, to a healthy environment according to Article 70. And that's why I'm calling from this place on all MPs to protect the Constitution, to allow our citizens clean air, clean environment and healthy life. On page 13. The defense attorney's reports are presented as you yourself have said here complaints from the citizens of Marcellj, a river ring that is being poisoned by Mariscian. Turns out we don't respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, we don't respect Parliament's decisions and decisions, the EU's directive, all in order to preserve this nadal system of major centres. Minister Ćoric is aware that the law is being violated, so he warned the cities and municipalities that waste must be separated on the grounds of environmental associations. Unfortunately, in the Primorje-Goran County, the situation is such that out of the 12 municipal societies only four separately collect was decomposable municipal waste. Other municipal societies avoid this legal obligation by justifying themselves that they have an obligation to drive biodegradable municipal waste mixed with other waste at the County Centre for Management in Mariscina, or Mariscina. Public Health School, which I spoke about on the board last year, 116 chemical compounds were found in only one single location. The values of 12 phenomena exceeding the limits of five extremely carcinogenic events have been measured. We didn't read that in the comic book, it happened and it needs to be reacted, protected by people. The solution was a separate treatment of waste, composting, anaerobic dysesthesia, where without the presence of air we encourage waste decay and gas generation. We also get compost and gas – two resources that are natural and that do not pollute. The D.A.'s office will be warmer soon. The people of Kastion and Marinšcina, on Marcella the whole ring above can't get you out. They keep your windows closed, the doors of their homes, they can't get out of the smell. That's inadmissible. And I ask you that we do everything we can and ask ourselves the question of Pope Francis, "It's not coming out of the crisis." We're in a crisis. What are we going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49222	In both world wars and the Homeland War and during totalitarianism, there were people who somehow stayed away in the wind and were getting away. What has been happening in the last 15 months in the world and in Croatia is the biggest mass violation of human rights in history. Out of the 4 million of us, the list of how many will show there is nothing from a baby to an old man in a nursing home who makes it impossible to visit a family of contacts, which are not restricted and violated human rights. Of course, this violation is not ad hoc and arbitrary but is in public health because of the pandemic that was justified, which the unjust will only show time and subsequent analysis. So, in the situation of the most massive violation of human rights restrictions in Croatia, it is scandalous that the attorney general has passed through to the Parliament a special report on climate change and their impact on human rights in Croatia, which could have been discussed in both a year and two. I appreciate the good situation, but it's not the same as Ante Prkacin who's a great recitator whether to recite Tina Ujevic like this or while I'm drowning in the river he'll stop and deny the Ujevic. It may be a good recital, but at that point it's not a good thing because he has to talk and deal with other things, it's saving me from drowning. That's how I look at this report. So why don't you talk about the state of freedom of movement, gathering the right to work, the right to breathe if you want. You're here and you're vaccinated, you're the ones who got over it, but you're still wearing a covered nose and mouth. I've got antibodies behind this plexiglas, and it's normal. You should have talked about the arbitration of limiting fundamental human rights, some may, some may not. Someone's in a house arrest called self-insulation and someone else's color is lifted at a higher instance so they can get there and hold the council's majority. That's what we had to get the report on. How did climate change affect human rights in Croatia in 2020 more than the crown? Give me one example of the consequences of climate change in the Republic of Croatia's direct, one natural disaster, anything that's happened and that hasn't happened before. The 2014 flood is listed. But whether it was catastrophic in Zagreb in 1964 because of climate change or the one that Ivo Andric speaks impressively of in the novel "On the Drina Cupria" in a Turkish act. Are we paying the D.A.'s office to keep quiet about human rights in the Coronal regime or the D.A. didn't have her own business so she's pushing herself into business climate change? In the brochure with suitable green letters, we also read about the famous Greta Tunberg and the sad promotion of child tagging from school, child deafing and child corruption. Because every child would be happy to mark from school on Fridays, but now they are given a resonation and they are being sent a message that something is more important than going to school and education, which is protesting in Zagreb deindustrized imagine against climate change. Otherwise Greta Thunberg took a nice gesture photographed herself with Minister Coric. It's nice of her, Greta lost five seconds, and Coric will have a nice memory for the rest of her life, so let's at least give her a confession here. Activistic tampering with the government's energy policy is not the job of the attorney general. She is the Ombudsman for human rights, and the lawyer's report is not a place to pass on an activist's pamphlet "Friday for Climate". Who is behind this in Croatia? As she saw the children on the Internet, she came up with her own ideas and organized it. And imagine children coming up with the idea of asking for the suspension of all fossil projects including LNG terminals in Krk, and it is also being transmitted in this report, I quote: "That the Government introduces a legal proposal to ban the sale of a vehicle on fossil drive and ban traffic of such vehicles in the wider city center," so dictating individual freedom of movement with public transport as bad as we have. And even if we had the perfect public transport it would turn out to be that in the wider city center we can only use public transport, and it is used exclusively with a covid passport that will have to be extended every year by new vaccinations as in Mauvoj China we will ride bicycles. What about people who have little children in a town like this or old parents who often have to go to a hospital and all the hospitals are downtown? This is not the case, not a word of the pandemic in this special report, but it is therefore an unbulful recommendation to the Croatian Parliament to declare the climate environmental crisis in Croatia. The fact that I couldn't cross the county border, that I couldn't get married, that I couldn't even die as a man, that I couldn't get my nose and mouth out anywhere, that people had failed jobs because they were prevented from doing when they were supposed to and when they shouldn't, and that depended on the rhythms of election campaigns and more important anniversarys. Convincing us that the vaccine was a rescue, and then suddenly it's gone. Excuse me – it has it for selected, privileged and over the line, and when the order is established it has fallen apart because florists and trained photographers work the information system. It's all irrelevant in 2020. It was none of my business. I, like all of us, was plagued by climate change and their impact on Croatia. I'm sorry, but we can't support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49223	Next debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49224	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, esteemed attorney general and respected secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. I wrote one, but now I'm kind of getting some other inspiration. First of all, the scope here is fine, but a period of 7 years on the entire 30 pages can only confirm the fact that the esteemed Ombudsman said it was a new area for her, that she was not involved because it was a very complex problem involving cross-sectoral cooperation. The claim that the pandemic is related to climate change as far as I know it has not been proven anywhere yet, so then we conveniently put the pandemic in the title, because that's probably modern now so the covid goes along with everything, so let's go along with this report. The right to a healthy life, clean air, drinking water is something that is unquestionable, is guaranteed by all basic documents at both national and international level. From now on, I don't think there's any need to do any new philosophy. The exclusive right to green policies that some political actors take not only with us but also beyond is trivial, because I think we all agree that exactly what I said is guaranteed by both the Constitution and the international conventions is something that we will all agree that we want to live in a healthy environment. The inclusion of young people is desirable, but let's stick to professions and competences. Whether we will have young activists who are everything and everything, but who likes nature to determine whether Croatia will be involved in the construction of a new nuclear power plant block in Krško, for example. Let's get them the iPhone for a week, you take them everything that goes on the electricity and tell them, we'll shut down all the nukes, thermal power plants, but then you can't have it all together, right? Is there no power for a week? So let's see how your young ones react. Supporting, I hope you don't support or appeal because I see you very much like the example of a young Swedish woman who doesn't go to school because she's protesting. I hope you don't recommend young people to mark now and not come to school, because I think they should take care of education first. We on the agenda of this High House every week have week-to-week legislative proposals that promote this very policy, energy efficiency. Here's tomorrow's low carbon strategy under the national strategy, then the National Recovery Plan. Most of it is currently related to sustainable development. Well, for God's sake, we have the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. We can't exactly say that our country didn't take it as its goal, commitment. After all, we are a member of the EU, we support all conventions and we work. But according to what state our country is in. I don't know if you know that CO2 emissions in Croatia have dropped 25% since the 1990s? Yes, not because we've been working on something very hard, but because we've closed down all the factories. And where will your youngsters work when we close down all those plants that pollute the environment? Is anyone thinking about it? Well, we can't all be guards and protect nature. Over 30% of Croatia's land is already protected. So we, it is by EU rules we have protected already and more than is prescribed when it comes to the mainland of the Republic of Croatia. I think that's the number we exceeded when we declared the Dinar Nature Park here in this High House. If you add that to all the ponds and other areas that are part of Nature 2000 as an ecological network through which two main directives, which are the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive, are implemented then we, we protect nature and where we should and where we should not. It can't be said that Croatia is not working on it. Croatia works very well. It can't even be said that our people are unconscious. However, they are well aware when they have the opportunity to do primary selection. Where's the problem? The problem is that it all ends up at the same dump site together. The units of local self-government as they are, some are very aware and very actively working on it, you have excellent examples. The island of Krk, for example, the town of Osijek that precedes, Prelog. We have a fellow mayor here who are very positive examples, but I agree it is not good that it rests on individuals and on individual initiatives and therefore it might not be bad to think about penalizing those units of local self-government that are not working enough because waste will be the biggest problem in the future because of our lifestyle, but also because of tourism as dominant economic activity. The digital green transition jumps out of all the documents we see here. It has everything – digital green, digital green. So we went digital last year, and everything could have gone unmarked when it was the first closing in a second. And so in a second everything returned to the realm of seals and government signatures, so that some of them would justify their existence and place of work. So it can be without additional investment, but now there's digitisation going on, so now there's going to be platforms, so this, that, on the left, and on the right, and I expect different florists to now expand their activity. I don't know if you know it, but most of the conferences on climate change at global level usually last at least one day longer than you should and end up with a sentence we agreed to agree. Well, it's not the Croatian problem. Our share in global pollution is completely irrelevant, minor and insignificant. We are compared to India, compared to the United States, to China. What happens in Croatia as far as global things are concerned is completely irrelevant. I'll only give you a few, so I touched the clear air. Here's specifically with me in Nasice you have in Zoljan cementar which is close to the Public Health Office has two measurement stations measures only mosquitoes, does not measure anything related to pollution at all. Arsen in the water and you mentioned him. The feeling only recently received clean water that has the right share of arsenic. But what about the rest of Slavonia where it is, Vukovar-Srijem County is a huge problem. Why did the citizens of Osijek pay for the water if it was not medically correct? It's the same question and it's very, very expensive. Bio waste from Zagreb instead of in the compost goes to the biogas plant in Donji Miholjac. You have a lot of examples. Citizens don't complain, they don't shut up. Some people complain. In the end, they don't even know who to complain to. Will what you suggest help them? I honestly don't think so, because there are problems. They're in a lot of areas. It is not a problem to define the state of Croatia, this House of Highers, and also the Government of the Republic of Croatia because we have brought here in these 8 months so many documents that promote this very value. But without the involvement of all stakeholders mostly at local level, there will be no shift and you honestly have and means the entire movement called Ninvi. Not in my back yard. So he can, but it's hard to reconcile all those interests. So not in my backyard. We can get wind power stations, but they're buzzing. Get them out of here somewhere. Garbage, don't come near me, don't burner, don't do this. Where do we go with him? So it's not that simple, and these 30 pages, I don't think they're going to move much, so we honestly can't support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49225	The next debate is from the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49226	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Attorney General. Here is something to say about the Report on the right to a healthy life and climate change in the Republic of Croatia in the period from 2013 to 2020 in the context of the Global Climate Movement and Covid pandemic 19. One interesting title of the report and my curiosity, which is why the Ombudsman decided to use her powers as set out in Article 16 for a third time to decide on one of these special reports, because I failed to grasp through this report exactly what it had to do with each other except to try to seem to react to any possible objections or complaints from citizens coming to the defence, and it was not possible to include them in any of the overall reports. Here's my opinion. Because if we're based on this seven-year period and we take it out as a couple of events, just four as far as I can see or maybe five more. We are talking about some catastrophic flood in 2014 and then the increased value of arsenic, iron and ammonium in water for human consumption in Eastern Slavonia 2017. Two fires in Split 2017 and Prudinac in Jakushevec 2019. I don't think that's enough events to base a report like this on it and then make such bold recommendations at the end, because I think we've had a lot and more fires in that time that have been going on at some age specifically. Well, these two weren't something special out of it. Maybe this one in Split is. We had other events that very much touched the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so that only that would be isolated here is what we noticed in seven years. And then the lawyer says in her opinion, she is late to adopt key documents on environmental protection, sustainable development. The precautionary principle applies insufficiently and projects are planned which are not environmentally acceptable because they are targeted at fossil fuels. And here we have one claim and the attorney general's opinion from some office, and I respect that. But what about after that? I think so. Then they say: “Citys and waste management centres are being opened, from which sulphur hydrogen and floating particles are being released, and citizens complain that they have health problems. I feel like there's a few, ten of them being built. We only have two for now, as far as I know. Some are in preparation, some are in wait. But I'm saying we gave 72 recommendations to improve the system of which 28 have been repeated for many years. According to our assessment, only six were fully completed and in part eight. I mean some findings or claims that are more or less descriptive and casual than they are in terms of my taking it seriously. Then we have the story of the air, the story which is the highest part of the space let's tell the Centre for Waste Management of Mariscina. And then we get the data from 2018, 2019. So 122 kind of an incident, so 2019. 310 overruns. We don't know what's going on here in 2020. I think it's been a lot better since 2021. I'm sure I think that part's going for the better. And here we are looking for space to conclude that these centres are actually the worst sector in the Republic, and then we say that later when we look especially at all the waste management centers. We say in 2018 only 25% of municipal waste was recycled, while the EU average is 47%. 66% of municipal waste, etc. etc. A lot of data. And we know that especially in the last few years, this government has given great importance to the centres as well as to the closure of many dumps. I'll name my county where we have, say, four islands. No more junk. We're all driving to Rijeka to this particular single center that we have, and that's that possibility that the state has given. And it's all costing. And I wouldn't underestimate the value of it, given that there are even incidents, but that's what has to happen and it's going to happen when it happens. That's why I wouldn't bring up these kind of brave opinions that seem underestimating to me. What happens by the government exactly in the sector when we talk about waste? I think they're having a good time. And today you only have from the Environmental Protection Fund several competitions that invite local self-government to build a recycling yard, build a sortery, build a compost. We have the money. Here's the paperwork. And it's done by local self-government more and more and it's going to go and I don't see any problems here. Then we come to those 19 recommendations that are given both to the Parliament and the Government, so I asked why, let's say, you think that youth associations and representatives are not involved in the planning and development of all working policies. It doesn't look like that to me. Which is first the one who's young, which is the definition, and then why they don't participate or what you told me at work meetings or tables they're not there. They did. I think everyone has a chance to say something if it's some interesting space for these young people, but if we're talking about environmental protection, even through associations. And through associations. And today, for example, there was a man from some association on the council board. I think we're listening to them. Now, to stop the planning and realization of projects using fossil fuels, that's a lot of courage for me to say by the Attorney General. Stop, okay, stop. If the government doesn't do it for the next five years, then you'll write it down again and you'll stop it. Are you then involved in politics or are you assessing the real situation in the state? It's not a problem to stop something, and then when we stop, that's the problem. So there are still a number of these in my opinion principled remarks that would be discussed between us MPs and you from the Office of the Police Attorney, to monitor, for example, the authorities who carry out environmental protection professional affairs. Well, I think that's what you do. So if we don't watch them, how do we know what they're doing? And where you found the moments to suggest something. And that's why I wanted to ask if this was just to write ok. We've got something on paper. We have accepted our assignment as an office and when this is accepted or accepted or not accepted, we have done our job in some way. Now, it's a full-time debate today not only about this, but about the whole work of the attorney general. How far the level of opportunity goes through the recommendations, so let's just say those recommendations are forgotten and nothing ever happens to them. Is that the only motive we should be dealing with here as advocates, because I know what I was saying about the former attorney general? I gave her the law, I gave her examples of individual citizens only on one topic, such as the seasonal subscription of HRT in tourist facilities. Oh, no? I gave it to her in 2014 or 15th, I think. You think that got rid of it? Why? No one knows. Some people pay, say, someone doesn't pay. You've got to be lucky, say something happens to you, so let's just say you won't pay, or you'll pay, not or you'll pay. And it's an obvious injustice, and it's an injustice, but there's no reaction. And there's a lot of recommendations like that. I don't think I want to be too critical either, but this document as it has given us the opportunity to discuss it, but I don't see much of what it says here as a prepared claim that it's in reality, and that maybe we're not exactly in line with what's going on at both the government and the ministry's level that's most in charge of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and what's written by the Attorney's Office. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49227	Next is a debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49228	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, Attorney General. There's been a lot of talk in this debate about Mariscina, so I think unfortunately I know something about it. For two terms, I was the president of the SDP club, and in the last two terms I was also the president of the County Assembly of the Primorje-Gorski County who made these decisions as mentioned. What a title as a man, as someone who was a representative of the representative body, and now in the Assembly, what a title given to this debate. Help the poor to your shame! Many talk about waste, many promise waste. For the last 16 years, I've been looking at the studio authors who assured me that the MBO facility was a good thing. Two mandates pass, one of these experts becomes a minister and starts talking about how it's no longer worth anything. I'm no expert, but I have to make decisions, raise my hand or I'm against something. And what's happening is happening. And here we are talking about the consequences and here in the report are exactly the consequences of what is happening – the dissatisfaction of citizens in March. And with one thing to know. Speaking of details, I'd like to talk about the details, which is why I signed up for an individual debate. There is a strategy on waste management that says that each of the counties must territorially paint territory for the MBO facility and that strategy said there would be four energy plants. Then when we want to feed on the dissatisfaction of the people, then we call those energy plants. That sounds much uglier than energy, because it depends whether you're in or out. Then someone will say burner, the other will say energana and then manipulate what is said not in my nebourgh or whatever, I forgot, irrelevantly, not in my neighborhood. And so. And then it's manipulated especially between the first election round, then the second election round, and the trash stays. We produce it regardless of whether it is an election promotion or not. But unfortunately, how long we've been going on, then I've seen and witnessed it. I have testified that so have many been given a parliamentary term, and before that they have only been portrayed as an association of citizens defending the interests of their locals because Mariscina stinks. I could name it, I won't. I could talk about what parties it's about, I won't. And that's how Mariscina came up with the nasty money from the EU that was supposed to work in a certain way, and these are the consequences we're talking about. Because today Mariscina and Kastion work essentially like a classic waste dump. And you know why? Because they don't have anywhere to take the fuel out of the waste, and they don't have anywhere to take the fuel out of the waste because that other part of the strategy that went missing can't be used. And in order to place that fuel from the waste, our regulations say that only cementers can do it and then you're cemented by a racketeer with such prices that de facto it's not worth having any plant at all. That's sad, but true. And it happens in Kastion, and it happens in Marinscina. There's one big difference, however, which is why I said help the poor with your shame. Because they own Kastion, all cities and municipalities, that is, their municipal societies that are interested in it. The coastal-goran County wanted to help its cities and municipalities and decided to pay their share and become the majority owner, to be named after, we didn't choose technology, we didn't choose the performer, we didn't choose anything, but after that every time it smelled called us. Why? For political reasons. And that's why I'm telling you gentlemen, I've listened to the doctor of science and... Theory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Cheap demagogy. One of the definitions of fascism is that when a broken crowd presented as anti-political is manipulated by the discontent of citizens, the justified dissatisfaction of citizens to come to power. I'm not a contestant in the first round or the second round. And yes, we requested I put the signature on the motion to close Mariscina which was unanimous. It was voted by colleagues from the MOST, also voted by HDZ counterparts. You know why? To finally demass whose responsibility is to Mariscina. And then we see, we see by the final judgment of the High Court of Justice. The Eco-Government lawsuit against the Ministry of Economy concerning the use of the licence and the High Administrative Court rejected what it, or annulled the ruling of the Administrative Court in Rijeka, the High Administrative Court. Was the Primorje-Gorski County a party in the process? It's not. And yes, I'll say one thing right away. Everything that's been done and addressed has never been answered by a complaint to the attorney general. I personally organised a visit to members of the County Assembly, invited the Eco-station to visit Mariscina. That doesn't mean I want to disabling it. I think this report is correct, that it's right in the part that's talking about damage. But let me say that I don't think that the Attorney General has to be professional with one recommendation that stands in my opinion, and I don't think that he's standing for a colleague, which is that we're going to give up on the MBO facility. Why? Because it's an impossible mission. Contracts are signed, it has to be realised. It must be realised because Croatia has no money to pay back for these IBO facilities. But we're going to have cheap demagogy that's going to talk about Ziro West. We can recycle everything on our balcony, on the skyscraper, on the chain. Great! They'd even make money, and I heard that so they could make money on it. That's what I heard. But it can't be realized. And we had a minister who told me that. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49229	Next is the debate of the Green Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49230	I thank the chairman. This report on the right to a healthy life and climate change is quite short, there are 30 pages. Anyone could have read it. As far as the very reasons for the report are concerned, I agree with these key reasons about the underdeveloped environmental awareness of the institutions on the importance of environmental development despite fellow Boric, who believes that this ecological awareness is wonderful both on the best branches in Croatia compared to the entire EU and is delayed with the adoption of key documents and environmental protection and sustainable development, which are facts. Sustainable Development Strategy 2019 Here, let's take the strategy low... Development from 2014 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was prescribed in the law that it would be passed. She's in the parliamentary procedure now. Just seven years. We have time. Right? Climate change. We have time. We don't have to do anything about it. So, then, the precautionary principles apply insufficiently. Well, yeah, not enough applies... so-called. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Whether or not they are implemented and planned projects aimed at fossil fuels, yes, of course. In this regard, Croatia has also asked the European Commission to put together with other EU member states that projects can be recommended for investors at EU level. So she asked to change that text by the European Commission. It also builds and opens waste-opening centres, from which the sulphur-derived and floating particles are being broadcast. But it's also the same thing that doesn't say that it comes from a dump, existing dumps like Jakushevec, especially when we talk about floating particles. So it can't be a solution either. So we have to shut down the Jakushevec dump and similar to that dump. That can't be the solution. It also smells, endangers the quality of life. And when we talk about the sources of floating particles, these are car traffic, these are during the heating season, especially heating on biomass, inadequate leach oil, etc. But they're bogs and dumps. What is problematic in this report, I mean problematic for the government and ruling in the last few mandates since 2013 that out of these 72 recommendations, according to the evaluation of the Ombudsman's Office, only six and in part eight have been fully executed. Now, my colleague, Boric, will say that it's obvious, that there is no foundation here. But somehow from my work on precisely these topics, I can agree that there are a lot of what has happened so far in the regular annual reports and we remember that these reports have not even regularly come to the debate in the Croatian Parliament when it comes to the rights to a healthy environment. It's also one of the human rights of the third generation, that those recommendations were not exactly respected. As far as these initiatives are concerned, I'm glad they're listed and... and young people who protested against the institutions of government both in Croatia and in the world, i.e. ask for stronger, stronger action in the fight against climate change. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] As far as the Low Carbon Development Strategy is concerned, I've already said that. We'll discuss this soon. I can't wait. You're doing it on the board seemed to me to have had. As far as floating particles are concerned, this is very worrying that the Republic of Croatia is among the six countries in the EU with the exceeded upper limit value of tiny floating particles, and that should really be our concern. So this is actually one of the biggest problems for citizens' health in the EU, means air quality and especially about floating particles. I've already talked about what sources are, and in this sense it's something we should be working on specifically, meaning more investment in public transport. It means that the less the need to use a car in cities, I say closing the dump, and also curbing energy poverty, which also deals with the Attorney General's Office, which is again linked to floating biomass particles, burning of oil vines, etc. What I would also like to highlight are these events such as these floods. So there are a lot of events here, and they can agree on which could be added by those that were in Zagreb in 2020. So last year, almost a year ago, we had a huge amount of rainfall because the Medvednica functions as a roof with hair, so all of these waters go down, actually down to Zagreb under a lot of pressure. We've had a lot of problems. We also had poor coordination, which should also be said between the Croatian Waters and the city-run company Water supply and disposal, so that in the end... Kuniscak, in the end, the citizens broke in on their own, broke in on their own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They admitted to all the institutions that they were right, that they saved their neighborhood from more damage than the flood, and the damage was enormous in order to end up getting misdemeanors, and I think criminal charges. Here's the other day those criminal charges were dropped, so much for that. So institutions don't do their jobs. VIO and Croatian waters do not communicate at all. Someone doesn't lift the constitution to get that water to Sava. They are still making sense and say that the uncleaned water in that case went to the Sava as if it had gone to the main cargo drain toward the wastewater purifier in Resnik, as if it had not been uncleaned at the time to go to the Sava. Of course you would. When such large quantities do not go through the purifier but go directly to the Sava. But here's the kind of thing that's being said by the competent institutions in the public that it's amazing. Furthermore, as far as counterpart Boris of the Ministry of Environmental Protection is concerned, it no longer exists. Do you know that? So there's no more institution. There's a so-called. Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Because what he says here: “The principle of sustainable development is not sufficiently applied, as environmental protection requirements are often put into practice. And you understand already in the name of the ministry you can see it. Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. It means something that should be the Ministry of Sustainable Development that has an economic, social and ecological dimension is something that is in the second plan and separate from the economy, which should be in line with principles and environmental sustainability. So we have the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. So much for that. What I would like to mention is certainly about the recommendations, including the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, and these recommendations on the continued supervision of environmental protection authorities. I really think that this is not only a problem of control but I think we have a problem if 90% of our demands are actually a process for assessing acceptability, or pre-processing whether to go into environmental impact assessment ends with an assessment that we don't need. If 90% ends with an estimate that you don't need to, then what are the criteria? On the other hand, when it comes to assessing the impact on the environment because it is legally necessary again 90 and something percent ends that everything is okay with the project, that everything is okay with the size of the facility, or the facility, that everything is fine with the technology and that everything is fine with the location, with all three dimensions. So there's obviously something wrong with that. Maybe the problem isn't with the authorities themselves, I think it's a minor problem. I think there's a bigger problem in the system where the investor finance actually the authorising officer, the firm to do environmental impact studies. And then of course they'll make them tell investors everything's fine. I think it's one of the big problems. On the other hand, when made in solutions on the acceptability of procedures on the environment, when different compensation measures for environmental protection are put in place, there is no control there. So very rarely there is surveillance, so we also have the inspection solutions that say that they have failed to do all the surveillance at all over all the projects that have been approved under certain conditions of environmental compensation measures. So there's a big problem. As for the recommendations on improving air quality, especially the emissions of floating particles, the establishment of all measurement stations in the state air quality monitoring network absolutely agrees. I repeat again that this is a very large environmental problem for health. And in this sense here we are also in the city of Zagreb in this campaign, went to our colleague Boric, in Zagreb in this campaign we created an open air app because we actually wanted to set up our measuring stations that we financed by the budget money that we receive as a party and networked them with existing actually measured air quality stations and made a volunteer web application so that citizens in all parts of Zagreb can see the quality of the air as regards floating particles. As far as the MBO facility is concerned, I think it should also be said that there are MBO plants that produce the RDF fuel that is burned, there are MBO plants that don't do that, i.e.. So-called MBO plus facilities. There are MRBT facilities too, so a new generation that can continue to come from mixed waste that unfortunately hasn't separated valuable raw materials so I think there should be a little more accurate what's there because they're not, there are shades that matter. It is not equally harmful for the environment and for human health. And here's what I'd like to end up with, and I really hope we have more of these in this assembly, and that it won't be while we're discussing them exactly, here are three parliamentary representatives, or MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49231	The following are individual debates. He is the first representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49232	Thank you very much. I would like to congratulate you on this report, and I think that these thematic reports should probably have more first and foremost to encourage discussion of the problems you have detected and which are very much, I would dare say the current reports not only in Croatia, but also beyond. No one can be an island, so neither can Croatia, and I think that is why it is important to touch these topics, specifically the right to a healthy life, climate change and I say everything in the context of the pandemic and beyond. Let's just say we often touch on the problem of migration. That's what you said in your report that we discussed at the last point. But what I don't think gets the attention that should be so-called. climate migrants who slowly have more and more. So we are generally Eurocentric, not to say croatocentric, very rarely see beyond the borders of Europe or beyond the borders of Croatia. We don't see what's going on, and we don't see why it's happening. 2018, if I am not mistaken or 2017, I will now agree with you a year, but the French Republic has given 1000 humanitarian asylums based on climate change in the Republic of Chad. The Republic of Chad is most of your desert land, so if I'm not mistaken, 95% of Chad is a desert and almost 100% of the population is concentrated in a very narrow circle around Lake Chad. Lake Chad by which the state was named due to climate change began to dry, and these people simply do not have drinking water. And therefore, the French Republic whose former colony has decided to give 1,000 asylums motivated by climate change. There have been many applications to this asylum, much more than 1,000, and in this context we need to look at both the world and Europe and Croatia, which is that the migrations we face will no longer be motivated by economic causes or even conflicting causes. So, with the direct threat of life due to war conflicts, it will also be due to climate change. Furthermore, climate change also affects our daily life. Here's just look at the weather for May very atypical. Or December time very warm. We have a better chance of having a white Easter than a white Christmas. These are the evidence that the climate is changing. How it's going to change that we can't discuss. That it will affect the lives of our citizens, their rights to it can absolutely be certain. And I think this report is one of the incentives to start thinking about such changes and these challenges on time. In fact, I would encourage all those who make decisions especially long-term in the Republic of Croatia to study this report very well. Maybe it doesn't give answers, maybe it's quite unspeakable in some things. But at least it raises some questions that I have not noticed so far that they are open in the Croatian political public through the context of human rights. But I'm saying it's a context through which we will be faced very quickly with respect for human rights, with probably now that it doesn't sound a little dramatic and the foundations of civilization but in some ways we might want to. And because of that, even though this time is too short to focus on some concrete things, I think it's very important that this report be taken to heart, to study, to think, maybe to have some follow-up to see if this debate has won something and if what is in which direction. At the end of the day, as responsible legislators, politicians and those who are thinking about Croatia for longer than one term, we must bear in mind that these changes are happening and that they will reflect very quickly on life, on the quality of life of our citizens but also on the challenges of global challenges that we will face as not only the EU but also as the Republic of Croatia, which we may not have been on such a blow as others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49233	Next is an individual debate by distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49234	I signed up like I said for an individual debate, so you could discuss that really long story. So here we were, first of all, proud of the fact that we'd be the first to create a center, basically that would contribute to the environmentals of our country, because we had the conviction of experts that it would be so. To be clear, we have come into the story just to help our municipalities and cities and their communal societies, because by law I will remind and I will stress another time municipal or municipal waste is not in the jurisdiction of any county, or the county is absolutely not in charge of it. And unfortunately, what happens is what happens for the reasons I used to talk about. But is the citizens of Vishkova or Marcella the closest to him to power? He's closest to the head of the Viskovo municipality. After that, 10 km away, the county is closest to him, but as I said, "not onion eats, nor onion smells". We took something because we wanted to do something good. The fact is, we can talk about decommissioning and talking. However, in order to really encourage people to separate the waste without having as a consequence Mariscino and the discontent of the citizens of Marcella, I separate the glass. I think we're all separating him here. Where does that glass end? Anybody got a profit out of that glass? Does the communal society I give my glass to earn anything from? We're separating plastics. Does the communal society I give that plastic to get anything? Coca-Cola can, of Cocta, of beer. What's going on with that? To motivate my citizens to improve our lives. And as for the facility, a lot of people talk about composting and that's true. And you can compost here at the end of the island of Krk which brand it is in the administrative area of the Primorje-Gorski County. At the head of the municipality is my friend Daria Vasiljic, who also served several terms here in the Parliament. It's possible, somewhere in some environments you can. But to understand neither the MBO facility, and if someone wasn't, I'll take it to the compost, then you'll see it's not a perfume factory either. However, if we are to build our political points to dissatisfaction, then we are on the wrong track. We'll still have these correct reports by the D.A. And as for the covid who's the same issue of this topic and this debate, I'm going to say one thing. It all depends on the philosophical concept of freedom. One of the definitions that is close to me is that my freedom limits the freedom of my fellow citizens, or other human beings. What does that mean? Someone's also contesting wearing a mask. I'm vaccinated, I'm wearing a mask where those rules are. However, I agree with the fact that there must be a certain household order, because one who does not wear the mask de facto, and does not wear because of some of his commitment, endangers other people's health, and thus others' freedom. He has the right not to be vaccinated, he has the right not to wear a mask, but in that case, he threatens health and thus the freedom of his loved ones, or his surroundings, and in my view it is wrong. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49235	Next individual debate, distinguished representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49236	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Attorney General, here at the end of this for you for a certain long day I want to say about this report that it is summed up, but not actually seeing how it could talk about such a long period of seven years more concisely and clearly. Let me say here's what my colleague listed, went around with his colleagues, we were as simple as councilmen in City Hall, along with other colleagues from other city district councils, visiting people in basement and basement apartments who were killed by that flood that broke out last summer. Yes, it would certainly be possible to add, but that disdain by colleagues, the fact that the flood in 2014 is such a large proportion and that everyone is relativating it and that they talk about how it was before the flood. And that we here listen to the argument of relativisation in general about climate change or climate crisis. I find it inconceivable, truly inconceivable, that in these recommendations of yours, I think that, by modelling the European Parliament, it is necessary to declare the climate and environmental crisis of course. That's totally logical. I understand politicians who have believed for years that they should stay in that buffer that talks about climate change and that climate crisis must not be spoken. Because the crisis is already a difficult, dangerous word and it's causing panic, and it's not the time to panic. However, world scientists, I am glad that you included them in January 2020 as you say the institutions of the legislative, executive authorities have received an appeal from 549 scientists and scientists for systematic climate action. And they're also talking about the need to declare a climate crisis, and actually these same scientists have been saying for a long time that it's actually been a disaster in action, but it's only left in these sessions. And when we watch the Tokyo sessions, we see from Paris but completely concerned scientists, both here and there, some politicians who really do when they're confronted with it then see what it's really about. And yes, that's why it's been said that for a few years it's only that time for a real energetic action to move this whole story. And about that too, I'm surprised, fellows with whom I sat this morning or yesterday on the committee, we were on this for agriculture, but the Commission for damages this year we saw that, but at an incredible time when all the fruit trees were in full bloom that it was all frozen. This 17th one said there was a fire. So what kind of people were those fires, remember? What you, of course, are politely expressing, you call it the four expressed heat wave, because you can't tell people, of course, that it was an unsustainable heat that children can't stand. I remember we're a generation that, if there were two days three over 30 in Zagreb we said Mom I can't sleep, I can't take it. Today when it's 30 it's good, it's good. It's only 30! So I want to finally congratulate you on that and the appointment, and I am convinced that by criticizing your brilliant predecessor, people suspected that in these seven years, knowing that you were an assistant, a counselor and a deputy, you were also involved in this great report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49237	We have one replica, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49238	Thanks, buddy. I think you've made it very clear that in some ways this report is just facing us with the problems that are coming. Now in the end you said how it was for your generations, I remember that same time. So it used to take generations or two to feel climate change. And now they're obviously changing in front of us. So relativating or denying something like that not that it's stupid to border on idiotism. And we, if we don't get ready for it in time, I'm afraid we're not going to do well. The European plan by 2050 for CO2 neutral Europe is very ambitious and good. But if only Europe remains to that end, I'm afraid we're not going to achieve what we should. And we need to think globally. So this is our national report yes, but we're tied to the rest of Europe, to the rest of the world, to our region, and if we don't have one global view and a global initiative we're not going to achieve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49239	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic, for this opportunity to say something else in that direction in these minutes. I'm equally astounded with people who talk and why we who are so small and whose, why should we be first now? Why don't we be the last and the last to have a nuke and the last to spend fossil fuels, because we deserve it with our own fight. No, we can't do that. We have to, and especially now is the opportunity for these creepy things that have happened to us and with earthquakes to pull on the basis of this possible compassion for both the people of Banija and for Zagreb and for Krapina, for Prigorje, there are our people who died in earthquakes and try to put in the country the pump that will bring us these heat pumps and really put solars on their stables and houses and help them. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49240	Next is the individual debate of the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49241	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed attorney general and Mrs. Hasanbegovic. As you can see... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm sorry, I don't really know how I said it wrong. I know why I said it. It's legitimate, because that's how it happens at the end of the day. Thank you to the colleagues of the two SDPs who are still with us the only ones here. What I was going to say was, about the report itself. Today we discussed the report on the Environment Committee and the first thing that should be stressed is that it is very important that we have received this type of report and that, in fact, climate change and their impact on health, but also on the environment, have become a matter of which the Ombudsman is concerned, which is a key issue because it is an independent institution, but also that this Assembly is discussing the recommendations put there. First of all, I want to say that the Green Left Block club fully supports one of the recommendations, which is that this Parliament also declares an ecological and climate crisis, but also to define what it means for us as legislators, in which way that pro futuro binds us. Today there were words here and it was from colleague Vucilovic of the Homeland Movement that some of them were holding green policies thinking probably of us because we're called the Green Left Coalition. Yes, I must also say that green policies should be horizontal, that they should be integrated into the programmes of all political parties that this is a question that should be overcome by all political divisions. But then we heard in the follow-up of the talk why it did not. So, counterpart Vucilovic said in front of the Homeland Movement that some activists of different professions would not determine whether to extend the work of Krško's nuke by saying that it should be extended. And now what's green politics? So, if the work of Krško's nuclear power continues, we're not just prolonging the risk, and the risk exists because we finally realized that we're living in a seismically active area. Krško is also in the area and is not too far from Zagreb, although he is in another country. So, in addition to this risk, what is an incredible misunderstanding is that, by extending the work of Krško, we extend and increase the obligation to store nuclear waste in Croatia, not elsewhere but in Croatia. And what location was chosen to store nuclear waste? Trubovska gora. Where? In Sisak-Moslavina County, where the note was recently published by the Faculty of Mining and Geology, together with the Faculty of Civil Engineering, made a map of the area and soil research, and detected the emergence of interest rates. So, rare but dangerous phenomena more dangerous than drills that turn de facto soil into thick water. So it looks like thick water, so it's completely unstable soil. The government doesn't want that map given to the public and the media, we know it exists. And what's the first question is whether there's a risk that something also happens in the area that's designed to store nuclear waste. And nobody's talking about it. The country's movement on that says it's okay, that we need to extend the work of the Krško nuclear power plant. So that's what I think, that difference in the perception of green policies. If our priority is environmental protection, if our priority is to prevent climate change, if our priority is to protect people's lives and health, then we not only reduce those risks but we move. That's what we had on the board today. So we can't say at the same time that we're fighting climate change and issuing hydrocarbon research licenses for 30 years. So it can't be. We need to make it clear which is our face out of the years. We don't say we should stop now, but let's say 2035, 2040 that we know when it is. That's the difference between the green options and the ones that aren't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49242	We have one replica. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49243	Thank you very much. My colleagues in green politics are very important to me, and that's actually where my colleague Matula reminded me of what I didn't get to say in an individual debate. Now let me not use that corny cliché phrase and the Chinese saying that every crisis is actually a possibility. But unfortunately, we don't think that way at all. If we are rebuilding Zagreb, if we are building new buildings if we see that we have, it is a kind of construction boom in Croatia why we do not stimulate energy self-sufficient buildings. Why don't we think three steps ahead, but we keep pushing for some back-up technology or technology on the way out. So other than solar panels, we have photo sensitive panels. We have companies in Croatia that produce top technology. Why aren't we using it? In this way we also stimulate industry, stimulate long-term thinking of energy that has already become a global strategic issue. And we are actually helping our citizens who will be easier to get to energy, or less to pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49244	Thank you. So, that we are actually trying to say from the beginning, and especially in the context of preparation for the IPO, or the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we are trying to say that now is the time to strategically connect different types of investments as well as that end product that we buy, and in order, for example, the solarisation of Croatia that you were talking about was our domestic product and was produced on the basis of both domestic knowledge and domestic production. This way we get that the green transition not only has these positive environmental effects but is just because it provides better greener jobs. Why aren't we doing this? That's of course a question for the government. We still, therefore, do not have the biggest investments in this area. And as a matter of fact, that's what the prime minister said and publicly said that they wanted to drive two lanes. One where we pretend a little bit that we're going towards the renewables and another where we're actually going for further carbon exploitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49245	Following is the final address on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Tena Simonović Einwalter, the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49246	Honorable MPs and MPs, it seems to me that this debate has shown, and I would even say a world-wide conflict. It seems to me that the debate has shown that one part of these problems and I mean climate change is marginalized, it is declared globalistic, European, fashionable, which is actually one head-to-sand. On the other hand, one part of the question proved to be very lifelike, and what we saw was that, in their discussions, it was those representatives or who had been dealing with these issues for many years or came from those environments where they faced specific examples of the report. What I'm never happy to hear is the view that Croatia is small, so we don't care about global topics. I don't think that's a good attitude. Croatia as a member of the EU has a great deal to do, it must have what is needed in order and with respect to global phenomena. Many have stayed here to agree that Croatia must be proud of its nature, its seas, to a large extent to live on tourism. We're aware of the value of water resources, for example, but somehow it's like there's a cognitive dissonance when we need to talk about environmental protection in this context in one way and we can see that there are economic interests, and to some extent, I'm going to say again, this kind of pushing your head against the sand or the commo, not to worry. This report seems to be raising a number of important issues. What's important to me is to say and it's about the debate on the previous point or points, which is when an institution of the attorney general makes recommendations and then nothing changes. It's not just us. In fact, it is on those on whom the recommendations are addressed, and it is also on you representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And I therefore hope that we will come into the future and that the importance of these topics is further understood and these recommendations are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49247	Replica Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49248	So, I think you're absolutely right, attorney general. It's actually a taste if you're going to take it, and you've followed the debate in this House since 2013 as one of the co-workers of the so-called attorney general of all the debates I've had so far. You don't write these reports to yourself or to us. Actually more to us than to ourselves. You write to warn of some problems, to detect them, to see how they should be solved, and to see which modes they solve, at what speed and whether they are solved at all. And at the end of the day, if we've just spent the whole day discussing our report agreeing, now it's less important. But if they don't get some result that some ministries will really respect, change, implement your recommendations then we haven't done anything. And I'm afraid, on this side of the executive board, I haven't come across much of a commitment particularly to your institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49249	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49250	I'd say only two more things here for now. One thing is to be aware that the reports are not written by the attorney general, they're written by a whole team of people. I will take the opportunity here to colleague Maja Hasanbasic, who was a big engine behind this report, but also an ex-police lawyer. Both past reports and this report as well as all other colleagues who I believe have been following all day and were present even though they weren't present here today with us. And I'm actually going to conclude with this last point of yours. Recommendation is something we should work on together more. I hope to have your support on this. The next time I speak to you, it will be about selecting the deputy attorney general. I'm on my own right now. I'm still my own deputy, and I'm the attorney general. But soon I hope that we will choose, that you will also choose new deputies, and I hope that in the future we will move together new discussions, new topics and bring new recommendations that will then be implemented through all kinds of cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-20-0.u49251	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 A proposal for a low-carbon development strategy by 2030 with a view to 2050. Session interrupted at 18.38 hours.
