ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u42975	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and the Voice in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u42976	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćorić or more commonly known as TC, or Mali Plenkovic Ptic, yesterday, once again visiting the media, reiterated what the Government has repeatedly claimed with high claims, and that the Croatian public has nothing to see and watch the National Recovery and Resistance Plan because it is how he says something that the government does. This HDZ attitude towards the Croatian public, towards citizens is completely amazing and I am increasingly surprised that people are suffering it. In the 80 pages of a summary given to the public by the mercy of the great master, there was nothing concrete that we could get caught up in, which could be discussed or in any way involved. That some professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences is tasked with writing to their students 80 pages of empty phrases from which nothing concrete can be read is exactly what we received yesterday. One of the topics that this plan of God deals with is the judiciary. It's been pushed to a few pages. The judiciary is a subject I often talk about in the House because I think it's a part of our country that has serious problems in its functioning, which is why both citizens and companies suffer. The long-term sustainability of court proceedings, the inequality of practice, the suspicion of corruption and the impact of different species have brought down confidence in this important part of the state. As a result, citizens do not believe that they can exercise their rights, and companies in particular do not invest as much as they could or would like, and in the end, we all live badly. According to a European network of judicial councils, 43% of our judges believe that judges are not named on the basis of abilities, experience, but other criteria. The European average is only 25% so we know. Also, as many as 55% of judges feel that judges are progressing on other grounds rather than on the basis of their ability and experience. So, what can we conclude? Judges themselves mean they don't trust their own system. There are still about 10,000 cases older than 10 years in Croatian courts. The time of settlement of the case is over 300 days in both civil and criminal proceedings. The number of pending cases in criminal proceedings continues to increase. He is particularly concerned that there is no information at all about the uniformity of court practice, which is a major problem. Next time we talk about statistics. The money we give for budget courts is above the average of the European Union, and compared to statistics on all other elements we are among the worst. According to the standards of information on the state of the case and online availability and published judgments, we are among the last. And now how does our government intend to fight it? General phrases. Strewn between all other issues of our judiciary has been given almost the least space in the recovery plan. We haven't seen a single particular thing that we could catch up on and read something concrete. I'm not saying that the information... It's a bad thing not to do it, but it's tools. [[You don't understand.]] Tools can't change things for the better on their own. I'm an architect and you can give me the best scalpel in the world, but I still can't operate on my appendix. If we put a bad system in a renovated building and documents instead of on shelves, we keep them in digital bases, this system will, without changing the way work, appointments, promotions, education and human training, equalising practices, resistance to influences and corruption as it is. That system will still be a bad system. For six years, the government has done absolutely nothing about judicial reform. And it seems by all accounts that he'll miss this opportunity, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u43132	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u43133	In particular, the influence of the ruling HDZ, first of all on the course of these local elections, in about a month we will be choosing our mayors, mayors and mayors and in these environments for some time now, the activities and transfers from the state budget that are primarily important for these environments, but which are thus timed at this very pre-election time and serve more or less at the expense of those elected HDZ leaders above all. So, selectively, that money is coming down from the state budget to local levels. However, another very important transfer of pensioners has just been timed at this time. I'm talking about the covid supplement. So the question was, on the current morning, I asked the prime minister whether the covid supplement would be paid or not, and he answered yes. We know that the pandemic covid crisis has been going on for over a year. Our pensioners have expenses, increased costs for protective equipment, so gloves, masks, medicines that don't go on prescription, all that it takes to preserve life. Thus, this cost is so purely by chance only now for a few weeks or days before the local elections is paid to the pensioners. I repeat, that supplement is necessary. We're looking for him, but the timing is talking about it being an addition to HDZ's voice, not a covid supplement to pensions. The second so is the coincidence of payment goes around paying back taxes to young people who will be more generous this year than ever, which is a valuable demographic move, but also here is the chance he will pay off a few days before the local elections, and even young people will have more reason to follow what HDZ's campaign leader writes on his, in his publications in the daily newspaper, and even some other high-ranking HDZ leaders. The voice supplement, that's not over. We've even passed the law here, together we've passed here in the House a law forbidding the candidacy of those who are legally convicted and who have been convicted. However, this HDZ is also being manipulated, and it limits those who planted pumpkins with HDZ, including those who are HDZ's angry opponents, and we know in which part of the HDZ has an impact on the judiciary. The impact on the judiciary on who decided when and at what time someone will be made aware of the verdict or not and whether it is good for the local future candidate or not at the moment, whether or not it is in favor of him or not, and whether at that time he will have the advantage of the candidate who is considering whether he will present his candidacy or is afraid to be unable to run. So everything HDZ fits here's the local environment. Lex Sheriff, I have spoken of this several times, therefore, to the principle that fully deviates from the European Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government, so Lex Sheriff, which allows all the mayors and mayors and mayors to decide more or less about the money in the budget. We know that lately he's been over-indebted, he's borrowing our grandchildren, and he's running the units like they're in the middle of nowhere. So again you're using money for local activities. So everything that's done now is going on the topic of local elections. I hope the citizens recognize manipulation and decide... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u43224	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Zdravka Busic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u43225	... presented a joint non-paper on Bosnia and Herzegovina with other 6 EU members did not record any substantial criticism of the content of the document in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, a number of politically motivated negative comments from Bosniak media and political circles from Sarajevo are recorded. I note that the Republic of Croatia agreed with 5 other members of the European Union with one politically balanced text that includes important references to the official policies of the Republic of Croatia towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are the need to strengthen political stability, prosperity, functionality of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a single and sovereign state whose backbone is made up of three equal constituent peoples and other citizens, who as such are crediblely meeting the criteria set and making progress towards European integration. Referring to the non-paper SDA Denis, he stressed any attempt to launch initiatives such as this one in Croatia without consulting political actors in BiH. The Sarajevo media mostly conveyed how it works is a move full of paternalism and disguised imperialism that shows the unfettered well-meaning of official Zagreb with rhetoric that is clearly being sharpened. The fact that anxiety in the Bosniak political circles has increased significantly by publishing non-papers is also the fact that their media has strongly attacked the head of the European Union delegation in Sarajevo Statler after the European Union's 6 Member States' initiative, led by Croatia, has publicly assessed as a positive and as an announcement of a major European Union engagement in Southeast Europe. Non paper presented recently by the Croatian Foreign Minister came at exactly the right time as it comes to the latest initiative of the head of the European Union delegation of Statler and US Ambassador to Sarajevo, Nelson, in order to encourage political actors in Bosnia and Herzegovina to compromise on the reform of the Constitution and the Election Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then a whole series of reform moves to track 14 priorities set out by the European Union in late 2019 for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that direction, US Secretary of State Blinken sent his letter to the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency on April 1st, and the US ambassador to Sarajevo explained the political messages from Washington two days later. In this context, the US side believes that the three reform priorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina that should be implemented in 2021 are: the electoral law reform on the basis of implementation, the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's rulings in the Ljubic case and other rulings, and then the reform of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement the European Court of Human Rights rulings, Sejdic, Finci and others with the aim of abolishing discrimination against minority members and others in Bosnia and Herzegovina that stem from an existing Dayton constitutional solution. Finally, the implementation of all the recommendations of the OSCE and of the GRECO Office of the Council of Europe in order to strengthen the integrity and prevent any apparent manipulation of the electoral process that has taken place so far. In addition to the most important recommendations set out in the US Secretary of State's letter of April 1st, I am also holding the one whose American side has explicitly made it clear that it wants to focus on the implementation of limited but significant constitutional reforms and electoral reforms, the reforms of the rule of law and economic reforms without the intention of touching the basic pau sharing arrangement established by the Dayton Peace Agreement in 1995. In fact, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a sovereign state with the territorial integrity of a multiethnic country consisting of two entities and three constituent nations is a sovereign state. The legitimate representatives of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina welcomed the US secretary of state's messages and views, noting that they are ready to support the necessary constitutional and legal reforms and to ensure the legitimate representation of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u43226	Thank you very much. That's what we came to the end of today. We will continue our work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2019. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. SESSION Interrupted at 13.33 p.m. And now we are passing, as is usual, on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, and the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta, the Honored Representative Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u43328	My colleagues and fellow MPs, in the sea of these promises, pre-election messages, these billions flying through the air sometimes break some good long-term decision especially when ruling realizes that it could benefit them, not just the citizens. ... There is one topic that is very important, and these are islands and these are people who live on islands and why they talk now and not after the election. [[You don't understand.]] Well, that's where we should be honest and say all the birds on the branch know what people catch in Croatia before the election are caught. This is how it ends up showing up and it's a bad practice but it's real. I will take an example of Lopud and Šipan, and I believe that on all other islands it is similar or almost the same. So at this point, you have a situation where these passengers are transported by ships 60, 70 years old. During just a crumb of a little stronger south, it doesn't sail. No captain will do that. You know why? Because the bottoms of their ships are covered and paved. And when those ships go to the mend, there's not one ship left, or they send them even older. You have a situation where these people on the islands pay a thousand $600 communal fees for a small shop or a small cafe. I guess we need a helicopter to take care of those couple of buckets of junk. I don't know what else to say. A thousand 600 kuna. And when that person in Šipan shuts down that little shop and that little coffee shop won't be any more shops, no more cafes on that island. So if people are already going to be brought to the island to live then we need to help them with housing, stimulate job openings, crafts, self-employment. Who else will come to the island if you can't normally or drive to that island or drive off that island? And this isn't just about people living on islands. There are a lot of people who would like to live on islands, but this is why I can't. And if the ruling says that for these additional ferry lines and similar problems, the islanders have no money, then I have to say they're lying. Because in these 49 billion kunas that were shared here yesterday in this National Recovery and Recovery Plan, it's precisely that money. You know why? Through the National Recovery and Reconstruction Plan, it is possible to finance any activity, any as long as this activity can be called reform. Well, after he doesn't care, he cares, after the missing lines of the new line. Isn't that a change? Isn't that reform? In addition, the National Recovery and Recovery Plan was created on the basis of certain documents, national development, strategies, evaluations. It's also these bases, like, for example. and the strategic evaluations of the 2018 island policies that the Government has blessed, and it clearly states that smart and sustainable restoration and management of island resources and the environment, combating climate change, working on sustainable development and structural transformation, smart mobility and integration, development and construction of maritime-land light broadband infrastructure, improving quality of life and the development of public infrastructure. The strategic evaluation of island policies says that the main challenges of island development are insufficient links, low population density, demographic extinction, high seasonal income fluctuation and population degradation and environmental degradation. It says 2018. Government. It's being transferred to the National Development Strategy. And today, when 49 billion kunas are shared, you know what the National Recovery Plan and the Island Recovery say? Almost nothing. And I ask them not to brag about the islands in their advertising videos without doing anything in reality. I ask that you promise what needs to be fulfilled and normal ferry, and additional lines towards islands, and sustainable development, and stimulation for jobs and housing, and do it before the election. Not after the election, before the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45596	Good morning, everyone, no matter how many of you there are. A little less interest this morning but we will continue to work, we have: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2011 on indices used as benchmarks, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 91 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us the esteemed State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45597	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ladies MPs and counsellors. As the President also said, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2011 on indices used as benchmarks in so-called second reading, otherwise the Regulation is part of a package of legislative acts which, apart from the one we are amending, make up the Taxonomy Regulation and the Data Publishing Regulation all with the aim of fostering a sustainable investment in which the financial sector plays a significant role, just so that investments are directed towards sustainable investments, thus achieving the objectives set, and this is a carbon-neutral economy until 2050. As regards the benchmarks themselves, they are important for measuring the performance of the securities and/or the investment fund. Therefore, this is, above all, a predetermined standard for measuring the effectiveness of the financing and the cost of lending. Now, the law itself has entered into force in 2018 and it has determined that the competent authorities to exercise supervision of the application of that Regulation are the HANFA and the CNB and, of course, their division of competences, work and powers and has prescribed a breach of the anti-registration regulation. Otherwise, the regulation itself has been adopted in order to prevent potential market manipulations of benchmarks in terms of their inaccuracy and inaccuracies to market confidence, cause losses to consumers and investors and disrupts the economy. Of course, this is particularly harmful when it comes to cross-border transactions due to a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market. For the sake of illustration, we had some of these benchmarks in case of manipulations, but the ones most famously you know when we talk about financial markets, EURIBOR, with us NRS, etc. As regards the very reason for these new changes, just to ensure the legal functioning of the internal market in favour of investors and to achieve a high level of consumer and investor protection, a new generation is introduced, which is why we have changes and additions of benchmarks that help boost investment in sustainable projects and assets. So, first of all, what we had here in the first reading is a kind of calculation with the term "green watering" or avoiding green marketing or misleading investors with unfounded claims about environmental benefits of reference value, we are now talking about financial markets and above all we know what it means on other products, especially in terms of consumer protection. This Regulation creates two new categories of low-carbon reference values, a reference time for climate transition and a reference value that will bring investment portfolios in line with the Paris Agreement's objective. So, as far as climate transition itself is concerned, so a low-carbon circular economy means responsibility for climate change, as far as the Paris Agreement is concerned, we are talking about retaining an increase in global average temperature at a level significantly below 2 degrees Celsius above the level in the pre-industrial period. What is, for example, what I would just like to explain, as far as the reference value administrators themselves are concerned, so we have supervisory authorities, as I said HANFA and HNB, and administrators of the reference value, are natural or legal persons who have control over the provision of certain benchmarks using a particular methodology, the administrator himself determines the reference values and publishes them. Therefore, this Regulation prescribes that the reference value administrator should publish a reference value declaration containing these elements, so that the administrator’s register itself and the reference values themselves, etc. The European Securities and Market Supervisory Authority, as well as the EZMA, manages what they have administered and does and is obliged to deliver all Member States. So, as far as these changes are concerned, this explains the roles of the competent authorities, as I mentioned, and wants to encourage a sustainable financing cult with these new values. So, to translate, when someone invests in certain securities or financial supervisory instruments, certain benchmarks as their own certificate will give the investor safety that this is in line with the green economy, the green transition, and thus affecting tomorrow and the risk premium, the amount of financing itself, therefore, something that is ultimately in the package with what I said at the beginning, with the aim of the low-carbon economy itself, the circular economy by 2050. So we still have changes here regarding the very context of supervisory measures and infringements that are changing. As regards the news of the two readings, this Final Proposal has been developed in relation to the recently published Regulation 2021/168 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 10 February this year as regards the exemption of certain reference values of the third country’s spot exchange rate and the fixing of the replacement for certain benchmarks that cease. Moreover, what we have amended is that the final proposal also introduced the authority of the HANFA in terms of gathering information or keeping records of used benchmarks and their administrators by therefore supervised entities. So that's something that we had here in the debate in the first reading, that we have that list of all where they use which reference values by the administrators themselves and the list of administrators themselves. Therefore, nomotechnically, certain comments and proposals of the Committee on Law have been adopted, in order to achieve greater clarity in the application of certain provisions, so as to apply them. Article 3 11 and in conclusion, I think what I should say is that with this adoption of this law, the Republic of Croatia will fulfil the obligations laid down in Regulation 2016/1011 and in Regulation 2019/2089. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45598	I thank the Secretary of State. We have two replicas. He's a colleague of Lalovac's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45599	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You're probably familiar with a letter from HUB that refers to CHF LIBOR's replacement with the new benchmark, that's SARON Compound Rate, right? So now I'm interested, since this was their initiative towards the EU Commission, it means that one reference value for another reference value is being changed, I'm wondering if you've been communicating with HUB and what that means for the other part, one of the rest of the clients in the Republic of Croatia who still have some kind of Swiss franc contracts, does that mean any change in that benchmark, says CHF LIBOR with the new reference value? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45600	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45601	Thank you. As far as I'm aware of the talks and negotiations, of course, and communication with HUB, there should be no significant deviations, especially for users, of course. A series of other amendments will stand out in view of our entry into the Eurozone itself, therefore not only as regards the questions of the LIBOR or CHF, but also of the other benchmarks that will follow ours, in line with the European Course Mechanism. So there shouldn't be any significant deviations here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45602	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45603	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. So in line with the EU's orientation towards green investment and the economy, so these benchmarks that are currently being formulated in this way, it is in line with this very sustainable investment and finally, the goal is a neutral economy precisely because of the carbon, neutral economy by 2050. Therefore, these new values will be measured by the success of the securities themselves, i.e. that in the margin that is formed when the interest rate becomes that measurable instrument. Here, it's something extra that needs to motivate us and ultimately stimulate us to take good care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45604	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45605	I thank the distinguished representative Peric. So, yeah. Absolutely, we had now, especially as part of the National Recovery Plan, to see what this green transition means, how much the emphasis is placed, this is a kind of arm of the same part, of the same goal, that is to encourage, just as you said the low-carbon circular economy in the financial sector. Surely all investors will have that information available, they will know, if there is no difference, whether it is stimulated, whether it is something that is in line with all directives, that is, with the EU's intensity just like in this green transformation, and therefore we expect that all investments in these securities, financial instruments and everything else, the financial market, which is there, this seal of its kind, if we can say so, will certainly have less risk premiums, or be more favourable to investment, which is ultimately the goal itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45606	I thank Secretary of State Curai. I'm asking him to return to his seat. Now we'll call the committee representatives, the committee rapporteurs, will they take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, a respected colleague of Bartulica will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45607	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, 220 billion kuna is the savings of Croatian citizens in banks, so 220 billion kuna stands in banks parked, and interest is, as we know, very low, none, nor cover inflation, which means that these citizens are actually at a loss. Yesterday we discussed 49 billion grants from the Recovery and Resistance Plan. How much in the public sector, and how much in the economy, as in production and investment, as in municipal infrastructure, etc. Neither is that 40 billion free money nor will it be possible to read from that summary any of it for the result have growth rates of at least 5% or more. This is primarily because Croatia did not reform its public administration in time so that it could absorb European money effectively, so that all of us, all citizens, are benefiting from it. Unfortunately, only individuals who are well networked with structures will benefit first and foremost. Why isn't that 49 billion kuna free? Because the EU will use this situation to actually reduce national fiscal sovereignty and start introducing new ways of financing and borrowing. For the first time, as a joint body is in charge of international financial markets, and this money will be returned, young people need to know by 2058, both Croatia and the other members are in debt for a longer period, those who enter the labour market will actually take part in the return of these billions. How smart it is to depend on the EU, which is known for its speed is not a virtue, you can judge for yourself. I've had enough of the fact that one part of these alleged grants will arrive at the end of this year or early next year, we've heard that, so a year and a half and maybe even two years since the pandemic broke out. So things are going pretty slow. One question that is being raised is the following. Why do we fear whether and when that money arrives when Croatian citizens hold 220 billion kuna in banks, which is significantly more than the funds available from that already famous Recovery Fund? We are now discussing benchmarks for low carbon emissions with a view to transition towards sustainable investment. Well, we don't actually have any investment, not a sustainable one. If that weren't the case, the citizens wouldn't be holding 220 billion in banks, I guess they'd be buying shares, bonds or some other financial product and making some money. They're just losing here. We often discuss climate change, sustainable development, energy efficiency and this is another one in a series of such discussions. He says we need to reduce CO2 emissions, so we've already closed most of the factories and devastated a large part of our own industry. What's left of it is that they're slowly destroying state-owned monopolies like the Croatian Forests that don't deliver logs, so there'll be 280 more workers out of work. And those workers who made the final products out of those logs. Then there is a common market that we defend and we think is something, it is one EU achievement in every sense, but we need to warn about some of the consequences of this situation. So, often we hear, it's the title of one day on the portals, but I can already mention these two sugars that have been closed lately, which will be with these workers. So Croatia can benefit from this common market but we must be aware that if we do not implement reforms and become so to say, more business friendlyly country, we can also have very negative consequences and ultimately, the most negative consequence is the departure of our people who seek happiness abroad. Now we are discussing green marketing, the Paris Agreement, the climate transition, the question is, is this the biggest problem in Croatia, ladies and gentlemen? I'd say that actually this economical and demographic devastation is problem no. One, and we need to look at everything through that prism. So, European money, in the study of various topics, I have come up with interesting examples, you have in some Croatian places, let's say European money is used to make a new water line, but then we learn that 2/3 of the houses that are connected to the water line are empty, there are no people there, there are no jobs, so infrastructure as such is not a guarantee that the country will prosper. It's not a guarantee. It would be great actually if socially responsible investment were our biggest problem, where happiness is that, it would mean that Croatia is actually in a society with the most developed countries of the EU, but it is not. We know where we are and will repeat again, it is not our destiny, it is not Croatia's destiny to be at the bottom of the scale, but it is, in fact, the consequence of the irresponsible management of our resources. Last night, we heard on the subject of debt towards large-scale drugs, and Minister Maric admitted that he had found money because Croatia would be in charge. So young people should also know that we have a model that's unsustainable and when the water gets to the throat then the government does what's easiest, it's due to, to say the least, put out the fire and move on. So, reforms don't go through, and I'm going to say it again, it's got a high price. In the Capital Markets Union Action Plan, the European Commission points out that new long-term and sustainable investments are needed to increase the competitiveness of the EU economy and allow the transition to a resource-efficient low-carbon economy. In this context, it is stated that capital should be directed towards sustainable investment through environmental, social and management bonds. In line with trends and significant growth rates, we can continue to expect an increase in social responsible investment and the expansion of the range of financial products in this segment. Finally, it remains questionable how much this harmonisation with the EU acquis will have an effect in the Republic of Croatia because if we compare it with the EU designation Ecolabel, it probably won't. After a few years in Croatia, only 19 products are marked with a total of over 77,000 in the EU. The priorities of the EU and Croatia are not always the same, however much we have aligned with this score. As part of the Union, we must follow the rules but we do not have to blindly follow them at our own expense. We always have to keep in mind what our priorities are. And now call it new or old sovereignty, for us from the Homeland Movement, it's completely irrelevant, it's important that the interests of the Republic of Croatia are first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45608	We're going to another club and that's the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished colleague Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45609	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Before us is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/2011 on indices used as benchmarks ensuring the direct application of EU Regulations 2019/2089 and the Republic of Croatia will fulfil the obligations laid down by EU Regulation 2019/2089 and bring its legislation in line with the EU acquis. By amending Regulation (EU) 2016/2011, Regulation 2019/2089 provides for two new types of benchmarks aimed at fostering the EU's transition towards sustainable financing, EU climate change reference values and EU benchmarks in line with the Paris Agreement. Sustainable financing is a key concept of capital mobilising needed to realise the objectives of the European Green Plan and the international commitments the EU has made with regard to meeting the climate, social and management objectives of sustainability. Sustainable financing is the process of considering and taking into account environmental, social and management factors when making investment decisions or investment advice, which should ultimately lead to a long-term increase in investment in sustainable economic activities and projects. There have been different categories of low-carbon indices with different levels of ambition on the market, leading to a fragmented internal market. A large number of different indices are currently classified into one group as low-carbon indices. These low-carbon indices are used as benchmarks for investment portfolios and products that are transferred across the border. The quality and integrity of the reference values for low carbon emissions affects the efficient functioning of the internal market in a wide range of individual and common investment portfolios. Many low-carbon indices used to measure the performance of investment portfolios, in particular for separate investments and joint investment funds, have been identified in one Member State but are used by portfolio and asset managers in other Member States. In addition, portfolio managers and assets are often protected from the risk of carbon exposure using the benchmarks established in other Member States. In order to maintain the proper functioning of the internal market for the benefit of investors, further improve the functioning of the internal market and ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection, amendments to EU Regulation 2016/2011 introduced a regulatory framework laying down minimum EU requirements for EU reference values for climate transition for EU benchmarks in line with the Paris Agreement. These new categories are designed to direct investors' choices that want to adopt a climate-aware investment strategy. In addition, this proposal lays down the authorities responsible for the exercise of supervision in accordance with the provisions of the Regulations, their division of competence, part-time work and powers. Furthermore, infringements of the anti-EU Regulation are also laid down. 2016/2011 as well as the amount of fines for certain infringements of legal and natural persons to which the EU Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Finally, it would point out that Croatia has potential for green economies and this law will certainly contribute to the fact that financial institutions and our institutions that will be administrators make one contribution to financing such economies. In view of all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45610	Thank you, too. We're going to the third debate, the SDP Representatives' Club and dear colleague Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45611	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Before us today there is a second reading, that is, the Final Proposal of the Law on Reference Values. To actually simplify what it's about, the reference values are something that's been going on for the past five years, there's some kind of negative omen, they're down. Every financial contract, when you enter a bank, when you enter a insurance house or anywhere else, any other contract consists of certain costs, capital prices, means the cost of the margin and those benchmarks. So the benchmark is actually a component of all financial contracts, both in the EU and in the Republic of Croatia. In the period about 2003, 2003, somewhere since 2008, the benchmarks were very high, so the interest rates were also very high. Reference values, one of the benchmarks you may often hear was EURIBOR. So EURIBOR is an interbank interest rate that banks trade amongst them, the risk-free interest rate as one of the benchmarks and it was about 4% to you at the time. You were added a margin to these 4%, e.g. +2 or 3% + some regulatory cost, liquidity or premium cost for which the state is due and then there was some interest rate of 9%. And so interest rates were formed in the Republic of Croatia about 15 years ago. And that's why the reference value was important. From somewhere in 2015 to today, benchmarks are negative. .../incomprehensible/...means so much money that they still lend you, more lend you money, still give you that they loaned you money. It's an absurd situation. What's going on, so they're negative, minus. And then you add plus a margin plus some regulatory cost to that minus and that's why interest rates in RH are 2 to 3% today. When the reference values rise to 4% one day, the total interest rate will also increase. So that's why it's important to bring that reference value. What's going on in Europe and the world? Something inexplicable. America is printing $230 billion to boost the economy to get out of recession or depression, as some call it. The fact that so much is, then what is the EU's answer? The EU is responding to the same methods as the US does and they are printing $2 000 billion. Now they will call it the European.../incomprehensible/... The European mechanism, WHO, etc., etc., does not matter what they call it, the last 5, 6 years Europe is printing money, calling it so-called. quantitative "easing", they don't know what they're going to call it otherwise. A race between Europe and America to print money. What's going on? Reference values are negative. So negative that even a replacement, what I asked this morning, one reference value for another is irrelevant. However, where is the danger of so much printed money? The danger is inflation. Since nobody is currently spending anything because simply, people are locked up in houses, in lockdown, there are no investments, simply, especially in tourism, there are no investments in some other segments, alone this printed money doesn't cause inflation for one simple reason, because there's no turning money. There's no rate of money circulation. He's gone. As a result, the benchmarks are still negative and therefore the benchmarks still have a positive effect on the total interest rate. But when the opening of the economy starts, and we saw that it started in the UK, in Israel, at the 4th of July moving America, that money will start to be spent, so this twist that we've been doing all along, the twist of money that these have printed so normally in that one time period, it's not in a year, it's going to start to speed up the circulation of money and the consumption of citizens. Is it just a little more locking for a year or two? One of the main indicators, there will be an increase in inflation. Today inflation is 1 to 2%, negative values are and that's why we're all calm and countries can be cheaply and in debt and it looks like favourable macroeconomic conditions. But in a year when inflation starts, and she has to go because she doesn't, there's an inevitable amount of money printed, what's going to happen to you? Your benchmarks will start to increase. Reference values must be increased to preserve the value of the total money because inflation will eat it. And that's one risk, as good as it looks today, as great as it looks today, how to boost the economy, in a year or two or three, not just Europe, or Croatia or the United States, can be found in one difficult problem of too much inflation growth, and hence, the growth of these benchmarks that we are voting here today, and ultimately there can be an increase in the total interest rates. What the EU Commission has done further is that all investment portfolios, i.e. every form of property, and by this legal solution itself, have said that it will penalise, or other than those benchmarks to money, will add reference values to the protection of nature, i.e. CO2 emissions. So all those who invest in investment projects, have, like refineries, like all those investments that actually pollute this one, have a greater impact on CO2 will pay a greater risk premium. It will pay a higher risk premium and therefore Europe on the other hand offers money, so this is a parallel law with the National Recovery Programme, offers money to countries, replace all your plants with investment, refinery, etc. All you have, which pollutes CO2, replace them because tomorrow you will be included in the price of money capital through this reference value that we are voting here today, that will be as a reference value that will take part tomorrow in the price of capital. So this is on the one hand, but what the EU is, which... A fair and transparent way, because there will be various administrators who offer how much this reference value will be, and that is why I asked for the last time, it seems to me that in Croatia we have institutions because this must be based on some scientific numbers, evidence etc., in order for someone to give that kind of reference value, and Croatia has no administrative capacity to offer that kind of administrative value, this index for excessive CO2 emissions, but we are likely to use some European index and we have no problem with that because let's not forget it, the European market is a Croatian market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We talk about another market there all the time, it's not just a single market, it's a Croatian market. So where do we get tourists from? They're coming from the EU. Where are our exporters going? On the EU market. So stronger integration of Croatia but not only will we withdraw money and use it to import certain products, but the integration of Croatian production with European producers is that it will reduce Croatia's convergence and dependence on imports and bring us closer to that single European market. So why is Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia growing faster than Croatia? Well, not because they're so much smarter than the Croats, but because they're very integrated into the German economy. Which is very integrated, their production chain, the supply chain on the German production chain, the auto industry, the processing industry, the steel industry, the whole German production industry. And that's what Croatia needs, unfortunately we can't get so attached to the Germans, but maybe we can make that value chain for Austria, for Slovenia, for others, for Slovakia, for the Czech Republic, for us and together. And so countries become more resilient and that is what the European Commission is ultimately asking us to do. Not only do we import and someone else builds bridges and roads for us, but to integrate and use this money in such a way. So in this context there are also administrative improvements for the single European market, and in this context the SDP club will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45612	We're done with clubs, we're going to individual debates, we have one registered representative, respected colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45613	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, this is a second reading which has in its essence not experienced any specific changes other than new technical and what this final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of the Indexes Regulation, which are used as benchmarks, so we heard, is intended to provide for the new two benchmarks which aim to boost the EU transition towards sustainable financing. It is these changes and these investments that the EU has envisioned in this VFO and also new funds of the new generation, so it foresees that complete investments are both to encourage and strengthen and to keep actually everything that has worked out, what has been created and that the EU as such remains significant in the world economy. As we know, Croatia is an EU member and in this very high society is like the last one to enter, and it is very much related to all the provisions that the EU expects from us and we also want to be active, reach and catch up with the very achievements that other members have achieved long before in that society. As you know, this new framework provides that 37% of NGOs in particular are expected to make 37% of investments in the green economy and 20% in digitisation, which, although we can in one way wonder why such investments, but in order to reach and catch up with the other members that I say, have achieved certain levels much earlier, we have to make further efforts with our national plan to catch up with those other members and show and train ourselves to be more resilient but also more resilient and resilient, but also to recover. As we know, in the previous period we did not use the entire financial envelope, in this period until 2023, so we still have 5.3 billion euros from this previous financial framework and therefore we still have 24.5 billion euros. Why am I saying that? Because just continuing and what my colleague Lalovac mentioned, it is up to us to prepare ourselves very well, and what the Ministry of Finance is going to implement is exactly that NGO and cooperation with all ministries and coordinate and in one way to improve and push for all this to happen because, as you know, every half year, if we make reforms, if we really succeed, then we will be able to withdraw those funds. If we don't do this, if in our realistic expectations and our own as much fear as we do now, if we can do it, we have to force ourselves to do it and then realize exactly what is now a return of 6.3 billion euros and ultimately a total of 24.5 billion euros, because without our own engagement, without our own methodologies and activities and changes, this will not happen in itself. So, according to this, we can expect this, that we have as much quality as possible and that the world trusts both us and the other members.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45614	Thank you. You can stay a little bit longer, colleague Peric. You have two replicas. The first one's a colleague of Pavić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45615	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, here we have heard from the presentation of our colleague Lalovec, who proved to be an excellent analyst and prognosticator, if we could expect in fact... movement in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That would actually mean when we get both money from the EU and pump up extra money, which is about 6.3 billion plus those more loans if we take another 3.6 billion, big money, and it's probably going to happen and a slightly bigger shift in that part... Move. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And while on the one hand we strengthen industry, we try to strengthen agriculture, we introduce digitalisation into industry, we introduce digitalisation into agriculture, we work on a green economy, on the other hand, they will collect the price of money on the domestic market for our citizens. The question is, what will be the effects for our citizens who want to invest in this period?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45616	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45617	Thank you very much. Yes, as you know, and it has already been mentioned what will happen to inflation, so in 2020 inflation is only about 1%. What the CNB predicts in the future, or in this 2021, is that it will be about 1.7%, which means that it has already started to grow to 2, so. Therefore, if we arrive at all these outlined reforms as soon as possible, then these indices and margins will be regulated in such a way that they will not accumulate the values and raise those benchmarks, but in one way we will be a reliable state and have a good rating and are approaching precisely developed countries that can then regulate their values.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45618	Thank you. My colleague Baričević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here you have just respected colleagues, said this final law will provide for two new types of benchmarks that aim to boost the EU's transition towards sustainable financing. Just yesterday and the NPO we discussed and the information we discussed yesterday, we recognized through the plan all the challenges Croatia will face and with the programme of planned activities in order to recover and resist, it is definitely a challenge and a real tool for transforming and reforming Croatia, a valuable document, 6.3 billion euros. So Croatia definitely has a great potential for the green economy and certainly there are financial institutions, our institutions that will be administrators and give one flight to such economics and funding. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45620	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45621	So, thank you very much. So, we've witnessed in this period this year, last year, how many liquid assets were actually in banks, how much the funds were not being placed, how much there was no demand for loans, for both the economy and private persons, so that's not the solution either. The solution is that the capital spins, turns around and invests. Therefore, what I have already mentioned and the forecasts of the CNB have been increased by 0.7% points to 5.9 GNI growth, so this is already one optimism that we really need to put these resources at our disposal, smartly invest in all that is expected of us, and what we end up signing as a member of the EU and thus achieving exactly the expected growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45622	Thank you. We've come to an end, here's the final, on behalf of the promoter, we'll still be approached by the respected Secretary of State, Stjepan Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45623	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable MPs and MPs. Just for a little while, as always, a recapitulation of the debate. The Honorable MP Bartulica took a bit of a broad topic and spoke in general about other topics that are not now the subject of this debate. The esteemed representative Baricevic absolutely pointed out what this is all about, so when we talk about indices used as benchmarks, which is their purpose, so the most complex thing that I can finally explain is that we are introducing order here, who can, on the basis of which to say that something is in line with the green policies in the financial market. The gentleman, or distinguished representative Lalovec, told us exactly what it means when we talk about benchmarks, although we are talking about indices used here to get that benchmark, so here is the emphasis on the indices that administrators place, create, mark and use on the common European market to just prevent different interpretations and different values, that we have uniformly. This is supervised by ESMA as a European body, and with us, HANFA as our national and just gives power to these administrators. As far as inflation is concerned, when we talk about a price of capital or a cost of capital, we have that nominal interest rate, or the non-risk of which you talked about + inflation, to which we are then adding that risk premium, which is the highest risk of liquidity or liquidity premiums, the very handleability and the very risk of recovery. So when we talk about inflation, why and why this value is important to us in some broader aspect, of course, that all the green transition has just had this aspect, we have, we can have demand inflation, so we're not going to immediately create such an aggregate demand, or pump up money that goes directly into consumption, but we're just going in this aspect and over these benchmarks, investment in the transformation of production processes, new funds, everything that goes in line with the low-carbon circular economy, so it's not going to be directly transferred, so this is just one smaller segment of the whole story in which we want to absolutely encourage that this and inflation, but also the same values that create capital spending, the price of money is more favourable for what is being invested, which is not directly causing some resulting inflation itself. As for the CROBEX family, therefore all the reference values that are in the CROBEX family system, the administrator of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, of course, is HANFA, we have a national reference rate run by the CNB and we have ADRIAprime so Zagreb and Ljubljana Stock Exchange di is also the administrator of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and we have control of the HANFA. That's what's in Croatia for now. Of course, administrators can be natural and legal persons in the EU, and there will certainly be certain registration requirements and, according to the national supervisory authority, the HANFAs. Dear MP Peric, she found, of course, the differences between the first and two readings are minimal. Surely these two new values go in line with the Paris Agreement and the circular low-carbon economy, that this is something that is recognised and further attention should be paid, and now administrators can directly connect to these objectives, European Green Transformation Goals according to certain financial instruments and, of course, the importance of the EU itself in the race for the world economy. So in conclusion, thanks to everyone for the debate and for the first and second reading, I hope that you will support this Final Bill proposal, as complicated as it sounds, and as hard as it is to carry on, basically this is a green transformation on the issue of financial markets, that we have a clear way to explain it, if we buy a product that has some green tags, it has to be consistent with consumer protection precisely why and how, this is the same at the level of the financial market, that someone can not speak in certain shares or securities of certain companies that are stakeholders or not stakeholders of certain green transformations, investing in their production, reducing carbon gas emissions, if someone will have to define it precisely, on specific criteria, so-called. The administrators who will have to register, write down all the instructions in a white book that will contain both national and European and will then give the legitimacy that this company, or this company, or already, which is the one whose paper values are being invested, will follow these trends. Here's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45624	Stay here because you have two or two, just one replica? Yeah. Well, then, colleague Lalovec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45625	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the Honorable Secretary of State, when we touched inflation, it certainly won't happen in 2021 or 2022 because it's actually mostly fuelled by the price of oil, too, is it? The price of oil has been completely submerged for the past 3.4 years, and since it is in the integral part of the cart of all products, the price of oil energy is that it ultimately draws inflation most of the way, so there would be no misunderstanding. But it is very important for the citizens, when we explain these benchmarks of value, very clearly tell them where they appear, that they appear in financial contracts, that they are actually an integral part of each of our contracts, if we go to the insurance house, if we go to the bank, if we go for any, and ultimately encourage it to eventually, because of its own value, that it too encourages inflation up. So it's not about itself, it's about other factors. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45626	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45627	Here's a thank you. Yes, in fact, we complement this, to the same thing, so what you citizens certainly say, you must know about each borrowing, money has its price, the price of money is formed as I said, as a capital price, a non-risk actually nominal rate or a non-risk interest rate of what you yourself are state-owned securities and how on the interbank market money is the basis of what we're all adding up to what we're saying, and that's why this is one of the certainly of those aspects that will affect the price of money, the price of money at the cost of borrowing, borrowing, etc. So on all that and the existing, especially when we talk about variable interest rates where it also has a direct effect, because you know that in variable interest rates is taken as a base exactly that national reference rate and if there is an inflation in it, then it rises independently to that part of the margin or risk premium that goes, so I'm not talking about future but already existing... That's why it's dark. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45628	Thank you very much. Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now let's go to the second point, that's: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law to protect monetary institutions, second reading, P.Z. No. 93; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Honorable Zarko Katic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45631	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors, ma'am. MPs, honored gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions. We discussed the bill here two months ago, on 19 February, the Croatian Parliament passed the bill and sent it to the motion to prepare a final bill with all proposals, opinions highlighted in the debate. Otherwise, the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions has been applied since November 2015 and has prescribed protection measures in the offices of monetary institutions which prevent and prevent criminal offences, organise and implement the protection aspects of business and introduce new technologies for the protection of persons and property. The law prescribes protection measures specific to each type of monetary institution, and so on in Article. 7. that is changing here. 1., institutions on the CNB, Croatian Monetary Institute, FINA are prescribed through business banks, savings banks, exchange offices, Croatian Post Offices, Automatic Clubs and other types of monetary institutions, so that they operate with cash and for each of them there are a number of precise protection measures. However, in the consistent application of the law, although the number of criminal offences in the offices of monetary institutions from 267, as recorded in 2015, so in the year the law began to apply, to 132, it means more than 50%, meaning half the number of criminal offences in 2020, it was seen, however, that there has been an increase in the crime of heavy theft by breaking into ATMs. The ATM in Croatia has a slightly smaller, almost 6000, of which is about 4700 external, and 1300 internal ATMs, so ATMs that are located in bank offices or other malls or similar, so that they are protected, cannot be reached freely at any time and night. So, in the last 3 years, 97 such crimes have been committed, 2018 to 2020, and in 2021, in the first month, 12 crimes of heavy theft by breaking into ATMs, which is otherwise two crimes more than in the same period last year. These crimes I'm talking about, so breaking into ATMs, so they represent heavy thefts, and they seem like the perpetrators are using gas or explosives to cause the ATM explosion to get to the money tank. In addition to stealing money, large material damage is caused on the facilities on which the ATMs are installed, and more than that there is a risk and risk of injury or death of random passersby or persons nearby. Since the current measures on the protection of ATMs relating to the establishment of mechanical protection measures and the establishment of a notification and surveillance system cannot fully prevent a further increase in the conduct of criminal offences by breaking in, protection measures must focus on the protection of money. To this end, one of the most effective systems of money protection is the electrochemical system for neutralising, colouring and destroying bills. So this system makes them completely unusable. The application of this system to insurance and money accompanying operations, so the transfer and escorting of money. In the Republic of Croatia since 2007, it has completely prevented criminal acts from being committed against money-carrying vehicles. Therefore, the proposed amendment and addition of the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions is aimed at introducing those protection systems into all external ATMs, i.e. these around 4700 and internal ATMs which are therefore found in the home offices of banks but in accordance with the assessment or assessment of hazards. Exceptionally from the bill, so the text that we had here two months ago, the final proposal for the law instead of five years was prescribed for a period of 3 years in which it takes all external ATMs to introduce electrochemical protection. Where a new external ATM is placed on the market for use by citizens or replaced for depreciation or destruction, it shall be immediately equipped with an electrochemical protection system before use or release. This deadline has also been introduced on the basis of the proposals and remarks highlighted here at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and in the working bodies, but also on the basis of our conversations and the possibility of such offences being prevented and that all banks, all the bonds of this law can organise and obtain these systems and install them from within 3 years. However, in addition to the obligation to install these deadlines within 3 years of the date of entry into force, the calendar year is not counted but the date of entry into force, the law obliges banks in transitional provisions to protect the establishment so that each of these 3 years these measures will be established in at least 1/3 of the total number of external ATMs. In accordance with the amendments and additions to the laws imposing mandatory application of electrochemical protection systems, the articles of the law relating to the obligation to implement the system in accordance with the rules governing the activity of technical protection, thus demonstrating the correctness of the system, its functionality and compliance with the norms and technical regulations, are complemented. Similarly, a provision is introduced allowing the application of alternative measures to protect ATMs by means of the same or greater effect on the protection of banknotes or for other security, technical and organisational reasons cannot establish basic protection measures, but with the agreement of the Ministry of Interior. In relation to material provisions, the infringement provisions prescribed in Article 1 shall be aligned. 42 and 43 of the Law. Finally, the transitional and final provisions provide for a fixed deadline and a prescribed percentage of the total number of ATMs, as I said, so at least 1/3, on which new safeguard measures are established annually by dynamics, which, in accordance with the risk assessment, will be determined by the obligor of the application of the law, so the bank and, therefore, is also determined by the time of entry into force of this law, which is within 8 days of publication in the National Journal. So the law is not great if we look at these changes and additions, 8 articles, we're... a significant newspaper to introduce greater security for Croatian citizens, as discussed in the previous item, although less money in circulation may have been said in these last year, but the citizens must be supplied, the ATMs have been accepted as a means in which, therefore, the way most citizens daily supply money and should allow our citizens to be secure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you very much for your patience, these are basic indications and changes in relation to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45632	Thank you. Let's go with the replicas, there's a total of six. He's a colleague of Lalovec's, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45633	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, here's one commendation to you and the Government for still taking the first reading, for cutting this deadline from 5 to 3 years, which is actually what of all the club representatives in the first reading and I think the government has taken it well and we commend that, here, not to say that there is no praise for the government in some legal solutions. My question is, for the past year, the Covid crisis has changed the way of life. One way of life was that people used to go to the banks, to the counters and raise money, right? Then the CNB told the business banks together, because of Covid, etc., don't come to the counter anymore,... At the ATMs, you have the cards and go and raise the money over the ATM, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I'm wondering if you have any information from the Government or the Ministry whether anything happened in those last year when citizens used more ATMs instead of counters, any criminal acts and ATMs or citizens. Because one major part of the money still transferred from the counter to the ATMs? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45634	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45635	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. In Croatia, it means 34 banks, they don't have all the ATMs out there, 9 banks don't exist with any ATM, 10 banks don't have any external ATMs, so they're all inside, but of course 7 of the biggest banks have about 90% of the ATMs, I said, it's a figure, it's about 4700 external and as I've said in the introduction of the law, the number of criminal acts according to.../incomprehensible/... so breaking into ATMs, so heavy thefts, it's about the same, or it's about the same treasure, for the past year, and the number of crimes that are committed in the bank's offices and other money institutions has fallen, so it's significantly fallen, so it's kind of robbing something. These were the most common in exchanges, savings, etc. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45636	Another replica, dear colleague of Pulak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45637	Thank you. Dearlywed, we have seen here in this final proposal at first reading, I have proposed that instead of.../incomprehensible/... not instead of using electrochemical protection to introduce and protect against gas explosions, therefore there is a different kind of protection, not only an electrochemical that has one, as I would say, a flaw destroys a part of the money, but a part of the money and doesn't destroy it, so it doesn't stop a complete robbery, but today there are systems that prevent these explosions by gas in various ways and then prevents in fact not only the destruction of the money, but the destruction of the property and the explosion itself, which, after all, endangers human lives. Here, just one comment did you intend to somehow include those other protections besides electrochemicals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45638	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45639	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. Obligators of the application of this law are encouraged to introduce other measures and, in fact, if the judgments of the threat show that some other measures are more effective, the Ministry of the Interior may allow them to be replaced by those other measures. When banks are therefore not able to introduce gas detectors, however, I must say that in the last year, in 2020, the number of crimes committed by the use of explosives is higher than the number of criminal acts committed by using gas, although years earlier such offences were mainly committed by the use of gas. We believe firmly that by introducing this protection itself, the markings on the ATMs themselves, that they are protected by electrochemical protection, they will be significantly reduced and possible and completely stop criminal acts on these facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45640	Now it's my dear colleague, Selak Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45641	I join the commendation that the proposal of all clubs in the second reading is respected and the deadline for implementation is reduced to 3 years instead of 5 years, I hope that this positive practice will continue in other amendments and additions to the law. My question would be because it is a matter of the risks and safety of our citizens and of tourists, and to assess the risk of locations and other risk factors being carried out by the bank, or by a private entity, does the state in any way monitor and verify the bank's assessment of the risks of individual locations that are then towed and the implementation of certain measures? And if not, is she ready to go in some step on that lead?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45642	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45643	Thank you very much. We have, as you and the other MPs have said, respected these proposals, and we have thought about them before, so a shorter deadline, that every year, at a certain number of ATMs, measures are introduced, not to wait for the last year, the last few months. As regards security, all these measures that law bonds adopt are also required to be submitted to the MUP, in particular measures which otherly seek to ensure the safety of their business posts, especially those measures that may be milder by means of the same objective, so this must pass the verification of the MUP, cannot be taken without the approval of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45644	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45645	Here is the respected, certainly in the name of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, and we will vote for these changes, proposals, excellent preventive actions that you have in fact in one way long-term follow-up of the crime model, this way we have put in place the prevention of both the property and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it is not easy, and I know that there is a professional team in the Police Directorate that is dealing with this, which is following the experience in Europe and outside Europe, that is good, because just a few years ago we have, for example, 22 000 difficult thefts, among other things and these forms that you have said, today we have 11 000, we have had muggings, I don't know, 1800 years ago, today we have 600 on the annual, these are a tremendously great advances, we commend you, and of course, we encourage you, our police professionals to continue to work on the fact that, without any major casualties, to derailing the crimes and to commit the crimes of criminal offences and criminal offences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45646	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45647	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, it is true that the number of crimes is dropping, but we can never be satisfied. What is invested in prevention always pays the most, so it does not lead to attempt, usually does not lead to attempted crime and thus preserves human lives, health and property of citizens. When it comes to these attacks on ATMs, it's not about a lot of numbers, but 30, 40 of these works a year, it causes a lot of public anxiety, when you get one explosion in the middle of the night and wakes up a neighborhood, it's certainly not pleasant and if someone else was going through it and gets hurt, it certainly causes great damage and public fear. It's just that it's not happening anymore. And we believe that these measures will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45648	Now let's go to the replica of the esteemed colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45649	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, although this previous year with the pandemic has actually referred us to security payments in the majority, it is precisely the availability of ATMs and the possibility of getting to cash and by avoiding big crowds, we see that this is a very good way that has been made possible and this prevention that these very ATMs against all these possible attacks is one form of one kind of security for both our citizens and all citizens who come, tourists in our country, and in this way, especially since you have been in place to cut the deadline for all these measures, and this will greatly improve our movement and towards the European money market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45650	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45651	Thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, as has been said here, by entering the Euro Zone, these attacks on ATMs would, if measures are not taken, probably be increased because with the same part, the same risk could lead to more money. We believe that in this way it will be qualityly prevented and that our citizens who use ATMs, so on weekends and holidays, may be able to use these ATMs more safely as means to get their own money while they go for a walk, so they are not tied to business hours. The ATMs, of course, also largely serve our guests who come to rest in Croatia so that they can get their money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45652	And the last replica, dear colleague of the story, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45653	Surely it is always important to fight crime, crime is an opponent of both our society and our state, and this is indeed a good bill of law, and let's hope that this will lead to a reduction in crime in the future. I wonder, when you consulted with law-writing experts, did you get any estimates, what percentage, and what proportion of crime could it reduce in the future, do there be such assessments?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45654	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45655	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, if I understand the question correctly, how much crime could be reduced, and with that very, very significant. So, I think criminals who see the mark and know that, that money in an ATM is protected by an electrochemical protection system that, in the event of an explosion, will destroy money that will not be exposed to that risk for themselves, for small or no possible money. So this way will surely, this crime I would say would completely prevent. And we have experience in the transfer and transport of money to these vehicles that since 2007 when this system was introduced that these crimes have ceased. But criminals are always looking for a new way where they're safer and where they'll be easier to get the money, so they'll probably find some new way, and we just need to not cut too much but follow them in step and prevent such attempts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45656	I thank the Secretary of State. It's over with the replicas, so please return to your seat, and we'll see if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and first of all, dear colleague Boris Lalovac is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45657	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. As I was actually saying in my own replica, the SDP Club will support the final bill, especially because the government has accepted the proposal of most of the club MPs here in the assembly and means that here some of these are kind of calming tensions that then we hear each other and that can actually at mutual satisfaction be passed one law and then that when you pass some law you have all the green ones this one and that is, in fact, the success of the government when there's all the green ones there this dots that, that some law is passed, right? As a matter of fact, for a concrete law in the first reading, we have also mentioned the risk created towards citizens or property, especially in the summer months, should we not forget that in summer there are 5 times more citizens than there are in the Republic of Croatia, somewhere around 20 million people circulating our coasts with their cards, property, using ATMs, and surely that circulation of money over the summer and winter is not the same. The load, the load of the ATM system during the summer months is multiple, and I don't know if any country has such a ratio, the ratio of tourists and the number of citizens, 1:5, I don't think that there's any country in the world that ratio and that much pressure this country has relative to the number, per population, right. So, surely, and what from your security aspect is this good law or when you see the very distribution of ATMs you see that most of the ATMs except in the City of Zagreb and the cities are actually those 50-60% of the ATMs are located on the Adriatic coast, right. Because the interests of the banks are due to the arrival of tourists and the availability of cash when paying for services at sea and there it is safe and summer is certainly greater than the high burden and therefore this legislative proposal will and perhaps best be that as soon as the banks go into a certain exchange to start with, with the Adriatic, is it actually there and the biggest kind of risk and we said that it's a good thing that you are now, unlike the first reading here, you've even put 30% on the dynamics a year now. In the first reading, it was, that part was left behind, so in this context it was improved, improved, I improved the law. Here you wouldn't, this wouldn't be much more about it, so my colleague Niksha will, in an individual debate where both the president and the board will, in fact, say more about the subject. So we commend the ministry and the government for accepting our remarks and hope that this law will come to life as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45658	We're going to the 2nd debate, HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Josip Begonja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45659	I would like to thank the esteemed president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions, which, as a legal novel, is primarily intended to reduce the risk and increase the protection of persons in monetary institutions, which is achieved by their direct protection, indirect protection, protection of their property, the application of a series of measures prescribed by law, which all together aims to prevent the criminal offences of the protection of persons and property in addition to ATMs. Therefore, this means of protection achieves the effect of deterring the perpetrator and making it difficult to commit serious thefts in such a way as to increase the safety and property and persons and property that are largely at risk in view of the way the offences are committed. Today in the Republic of Croatia, it is undeniable that ATMs became the most widespread source of almost money, we have almost 6,000 divided into external and internal ones where around 80% are external and around 20% internal ATMs and their current protection prescribed by the applicable law are not sufficiently effective. Following property crimes over the past few years, it has been said that there has been a trend in the increase in the crime of heavy theft by breaking and entering ATMs. Statistics from 2018 to the end of 2020 best talk about the increase from 18 heavy thefts to 44 heavy burglary, and only in the first two months of this year 12 crimes were committed, which is more than during the same period last year. If it is considered that in the coming period as a new risk factor it will appear by introducing EUR as an official currency into our payment system, then the risks of robbery can increase multiple times. It is therefore indisputable to complement the existing measures to protect the prescribed legal standards in order to further reduce the risk and further increase the protection of persons. As a proponent, the government has proposed one of the most effective ways to reduce the risk of physical attacks against ATMs by installing electrochemical protection that destroys bills and makes them unusable after the unauthorized penetration of ATM safes. The installation of this system of protection primarily affecting finished money in ATMs that makes it unusable would reduce and completely stop physical attacks on ATMs through the use of gas or explosives, leading to greater efficiency in the protection of ATMs, but above all, to the protection of persons and to prevent the criminal offences of breaking into ATMs. It is a good provision that any new external ATM that is placed on the market on the use of citizens must be immediately equipped with an electrochemical protection system before use, i.e. when activated. Also, the law also states here that the applicants are allowed to apply alternative measures to protect ATMs by means of technology which achieves the same or greater effect of the protection of banknotes. What the HDZ Club pointed out in its first reading, as well as other clubs, as well as numerous colleagues and colleagues through an individual debate on first reading of the law was a matter of time before the measures were fully implemented. At the age of five, it was reduced to three years, which was accepted by the proponent in his final proposal for a legal novel. It is also good that the dynamics of implementation of measures by monetary institutions have been introduced, so one third of each year it is necessary to install these protection measures into external ATMs. This dynamic, as I have already said, is important for security reasons both for citizens, but also for the fact that the introduction of the euro as an official currency has been expected since 2023. Once again, I point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support Vlad's Final Bill on the Protection of Monetary Institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45660	Now we're going to hear the third club representative. It is the club of representatives of MOST and respected colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45661	Like other colleagues, I will join this commendation once again that the debate held in the Assembly was not in vain and that it was indeed for the benefit of our citizens and their safety that this deadline for the implementation of new forms of protection was reduced from five to three years. What we consider to be even better on this trail and what we talked about in the previous reading, but what is not appreciated as the proposal refers to the size of the picture and text content of the label, or otherwise, simpler forms of warning, prevention before the perpetrator himself even decides to commit a crime. We believe that unifying such forms of labelling instead of leaving them on the assessment of private entities, or banks, and their clear emphasis, without clearly leaving it as some fluid notion, would further contribute to protecting our citizens and ATMs from potential criminal offences and that, in that sense, it might consider establishing some more concrete cooperation of the rules with private entities. The second question that also remains open and which I have put here as a replica is what concerns the right of the banks to assess the security itself, that is, the threat of a particular location, and which then pulls back the various measures that will monitor these ATMs. Of course, a private entity that owns an ATM can decide how to protect it. However, this is about a specific situation where we have the interest of banks on the one hand, and on the other hand we have the protection of our citizens who use these same banks, and this should also be arranged in a way that the state does not take it on a flat-rate basis through some kind of control of the MUP, but that it really sets out its own priorities and locations that it considers threatened that it is not a simple job at all. Because on the one hand, we have the threat of those localities that are touristic and big traffic, but on the other hand we also have the threat of those localities where there is no one, so lonely places. So there should be a clear and unambiguous list of priorities, given some previous experiences, but also the circulation of people, and the visibility of a specific place, and therefore to make its own priority, and then to monitor whether banks prescribe measures, or to indicate the threat of the locality according to the internal instruments of the MUP. Because unless the MIP has developed documents and regulations by which it has already predetermined the status of an individual ATM in Croatia, then it cannot even assess any statement, or assessment of the bank of how much it considers a particular site to be endangered and that what it believes should be done accordingly to protect it. I will use this debate on behalf of the club for another important topic concerning the protection of ATMs, which was not discussed within these changes and additions, and perhaps even closer to our citizens than some major frauds, or criminal acts of attempted attack on ATMs, which is their daily use of ATMs, i.e. the abuse of payment cards. So, first of all, I'm afraid that the ATMs as such are not sufficiently protected because we're still focusing on traditional forms of protection when using these same ATMs, so the citizens are still on the government's pages, and they're still pointing out that when they use ATMs to protect the input of their pins with some kind of hand movement to hide the card or to hide the keyboard while using the card. This shows in itself that there are no adequate protection systems because it is often not clear to citizens especially those older age in any way to conceal the introduction of pins in the first place or whether they did it correctly and whether they are using anyone where this camera or a fake camera could be found. So we already see here that we need to work on other protection systems that will make it easier to use ATMs without citizens having to protect themselves from ATMs and ATM fraud, but also from other citizens, given the regulation of appropriate distance and possible interference when raising money while they are conducting an ATM transaction. On the one hand, what the government warns you about and what again shows is the lack of awareness of the problem of abuse of payment cards that if you notice a suspect to go to another ATM. So that's an official recommendation from the government. If you notice a suspect I suppose you shouldn't leave it to someone else in a way that he may abuse the trust of a person who will come after you, you should already inform the competent institutions. The solution is never to walk away and find another ATM on which you will safely raise the money. So these things need to be responded, and these phenomena need to be prevented. Instructions like going to another ATM aren't accurate enough. Often, citizens are not able to do so and do not warn citizens that they too play an active role in detecting potential crime. During the tourist season, since there are more and more frauds, citizens are rarely allowed to keep the ATM card. However, what the citizens are not aware of, and what the Croatian Parliament should also warn that this does not necessarily mean that fraud has already been discovered but may even be the way to fraud itself. So, there's a certain device that the perpetrators of the crime are putting into the ATM so that they keep the card so that as well-intentioned passersby they suggest to our citizens to re-enter the pin, then get their protected data and then transfer their data to some other cards and they can use their funds. False keyboards are also one of the ways the perpetrators try to reach the resources of our citizens. Cameras that are placed and which can be fake or do not belong to monetary institutions are most often placed in the upper part. And that's what citizens need to know when they're protecting their card. Although I warn you, we might consider a different regulation of bank protection so that citizens may not be forced to take care of transactions in places that should be, in their own way, of monetary institutions being protected by a sufficient amount of supervision. What is particularly worrying is that the data that I unfortunately failed to get to, and it is very much about the Croatian public and this problem is a fact which is being warned that equipment and perpetrators of criminal offences are found very rarely in these situations. Why? Because the equipment after it has made enough transactions or alienated enough data, and the perpetrators continue to use data abroad until our citizen notices that his data is alienated. In this sense it would be very useful to know, since it is a rare phenomenon, during the season almost in most tourist places we have cases of card retention or perhaps some information from banks about possible inappropriate transactions. How many such cases were there in Croatia? How many such cases were there in the EU? And what seems to be at EU level is some kind of joint cooperation between Member States to find perpetrators who commit a crime in one country, and later exploit the same data on another country, especially given the territorial way the Internet works or the absence of borders. The penal law of Croatia, Article 278, provides for 3 years for a fake, use of a fake I.D., or for a fraud in the use of a fake I.D. while using special protection of public documents if it is, for example, a card and this Penal Code, 278, prescribes a sentence from 6 months to 5 years. At EU level, there are estimated to be around 1 billion and 44 million damage per year, according to the European Central Bank's assessment of card fraud. So, 1 billion almost 1 and a half, I apologize, a billion damages for this kind of fraud. That's why things like this should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45662	Thank you very much. We are now going to individual debates, so immediately the first one will be Commissioner Marija Selak Rasdic again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45663	So here I stayed right here since I was first in an individual debate. So one thing I wanted to warn about and to expand the debate in the Croatian Parliament is how to protect ATMs directly affecting our citizens or using these same ATMs because they provide ATMs, and these are positive legal changes on this trail from major fraud and invasive access such as trying to destroy or attack the entire ATM is one dimension of the problem, and another dimension of the problem are these daily petty frauds very often in tourist countries where the financial security of our citizens is directly threatened by stealing their data. If we say that at EU level it is a problem of 1.5 billion euros, a problem that is so difficult, and its weight is growing because of the development of modern technologies, then we really need to check what is happening in Croatia, what is our statistics, what we do to inform our citizens about appropriate protection and provide added protection so that it does not fall on their burden and what EU practice is in the search and detection of common perpetrators, because, I will remind you once again, the basic problem we are facing here is the fact that few thieves are being tracked. So here I have also cited concrete examples from our Ministry’s pages, or from the Government’s pages, which speak about how citizens should be protected from the abuse of payment cards, and I believe that certain instructions should be corrected, for example, by citizens and should not be properly protected in order to protect themselves or to know how to do so, and instructions such as, go to another ATM if you notice a suspect certainly do not work on developing the responsibilities of active citizens involved in countering organised crime. So responsibility is on the one hand at the government institutions, on the other hand on all of us. This is a problem that is constant and not sufficiently talked about, and we really need to see if there is anything we can do in the legislative changes at a wider level that and here, if we are already going through this positive ATM protection, we need to protect the use of these same ATMs even more, that is to enable our citizens to have financial security. We, but also the whole of the EU, should first of all know in this sense what the statistics and the committing of these crimes are, but then the verdict, therefore, we have an art. 278, we do not know how many people are punished precisely for the abuse and use of such cards, and on the other hand, we need to know what is happening at EU level. The problem I wanted to talk about here, but I decided to deepen this because it concerns our citizens more directly is something that has not been talked about in HS so far, and what awaits us in the future, so perhaps we should open these topics as well. So last time, I was talking about moving more and more into card business and opening up the question of whether it's jeopardizing both some basic human rights and our freedom because of the inability to monitor transactions if they happen through the money. What has never been spoken of in HS, which will need to be regulated legally and which is what they care about, which is what our more active citizens are already involved in, are certainly “blockchain” transaction records or the use of different digital currencies of Bitcoin which can also be used for illegal activities, and today they operate on the margins of the financial system. Today the whole thing works more or less well, no one has yet managed to manipulate the system and steal the bitcoins, they are being stolen by mass, but on stock exchanges and by individuals, but they are not being downloaded from the “blockchain”. But there are various theoretical ways in which we could destroy the very thing. So what's good about Bitcoin, now I'm gonna have to stop, which has no central control. Different financial benefits are offered to those who decide to save in Bitcoin, and therefore it is one area that needs to be regained and which needs to be more clearly regulated Which should also be discussed in HS. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45664	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Niksha Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45665	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. As I said yesterday on the board, I'm glad you accepted the proposals of most clubs that this five-year-old implementation was reduced to three years and that you put 1/3, 1/3, 1/3. In more or less in the first reading we were all for this law, the only remarks were to reduce that deadline and to introduce the banks exactly the part that will have to implement annually in ATMs, and what I want to say in this final proposal or second reading, when we consider that the Law on the Protection of Monetary Institutions since 2015 in Croatia is in force and when we saw that heavy thefts and break-ins in banks are strictly explicitly seen to be a reduced number, but what was not covered, they were not just covered by ATMs, and given that we have almost 6 thousand ATMs or 4600 external ATMs, we can say, in particular that Croatia as a tourist country should have done this, primarily for the protection of citizens and for the protection of property because we are protecting our citizens and our assets and I am glad that you accepted reasonably what we proposed and on board, this deadline to be reduced from 5 years to 5 years to no more banks, so that the last year's. What I didn't see or maybe didn't get a good look at, I just want to know what control of law enforcement will be, and I think it's very important that the supervision be on the banks to know exactly whether these conditions have been legally met, did not, in the very change of those ATMs due to the duration of depreciation, when they change that banks in this new proposal have to put ATMs with electrochemical protection immediately. It is important that this surveillance is real and that banks or especially private persons with ATMs are not allowed to be allowed to break the law. As my colleague Lalovac said, we will support this bill, because everything that goes to the Republic of Croatia for protection of citizens, we will support the property and we are glad that you have accepted our remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45666	Thank you. And we have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45667	So, since I've tried to open up some additional security issues here for our citizens' financial security, do you see any possibility of improving the existing ATM protection system at individual level and protecting our citizens when using ATMs, either at the systemic level of ATM protection, so as part of monetary institutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45668	Dear Representative Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45669	Well, first of all, I think the most important safety assessment is where these ATMs are being set up, and that's where it's supposed to start, because when a good assessment is done, then we've done most of the work. It was seen that this video surveillance did not bring any results, because in 2018. There were 18 crimes, in the 19th 35, in the 20th 44th. And I think that ATMs are especially now in a covid crisis that's somehow the simplest for some heavy theft I think this particular electrochemical substance that's going to sort of destroy the bills will in some way protect both citizens and property and potentially prevent them in serious criminal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45670	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected MPs Marijana Puljak. She's gone? He's losing his right to debate, and then he's going to speak now to a respected representative, Danica Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45671	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the State, therefore the purpose of the applicable law adopted in 2015 was to reduce the risk and increase the protection of persons in monetary institutions through their direct protection and indirect protection of their property. However, the final proposal for a law that today stems from the fact that at that time the current protection prescribed by this applicable law of 2015 did not provide an adequate degree of security for persons and property, and in today's time this specifically relates to the proposal for a new modern way of protecting ATMs, night-time vaults and safety-deposit tanks. ATMs have become really the most widespread source of cash in the Republic of Croatia. We've heard there's about 6000 of them. Their numbers are on the rise all the time. The internal ATMs located in the office are about 1250, and the external ones that are outside the office have about 4600. ATMs are usually located in residential or business facilities, and in open spaces where many people are gathered and in recent years we have witnessed an increasing number of serious thefts just by breaking into ATMs. So we heard that from the respected secretary of state in the opening section that 36 crimes of heavy theft were committed, i.e. attempted heavy theft by breaking into ATMs, of which 34 were blown up by gas and explosives and daily on the cover of daily newspapers and portals, we can read more and more frequently that the ATMs broke down, the thieves fled with the money and the ATMs blew up. So, certainly, such attacks are the most dangerous for human lives and certainly a growing trend in these attacks suggests a major potential threat to human safety, life and property. And here's what I said about the current law that didn't provide an adequate degree of security from 2015. So this final law should commend this modern way of protecting ATMs that are aimed at protection and money. So one of the most effective ways to reduce the risk of physical attacks is by installing electrochemical protection into devices that are currently not required under the legal provisions and the electrochemical protection of money means that when breaking into ATMs, money would be destroyed or painted so that thieves become unusable. Therefore, the establishment of an electrical protection system for internal ATMs will depend on the categorisation of ATMs in accordance with the risk assessments designed to assess the risk given the level of risk that depends on accommodation, type, frequency of use and other external and internal factors. The establishment of measures in external ATMs must be mandatory for all external ATMs without exception, given the fact that more than 95% of the crimes were committed precisely on external ATMs. And certainly commending is this shortened deadline between the first and second readings that you respected here from all those present in the debate and that you shortened the five-year period to three years so that the full implementation could be completed. So within three years of the date of entry into force of this law which would redistribute and facilitate the actual total cost of their introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45672	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45673	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, although the ATM is somewhere around 6,000 about 4600 is external. They are mostly situated in cities and in tourist resorts by the sea. A large number of municipalities in Dalmatia Zagora, Lica, G. kotar, Banovina, Slavonia, who do not have any ATM, the pensioners are getting less and less pensions in cash at home, so that pensioners must travel 30, 40 km from their home, often poorly connected. Do you think that the example works in the centers of the municipalities with the post office would be desirable if there were at least one ATM? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45674	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45675	I thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Yes, unfortunately, no matter what the ATMs are today and the most widespread source of the finished money, unfortunately, here we see from your question that the interest of the banks is not to be where it is available and in small places because here, unfortunately, they are in traffic where big traffic, especially in the coast, is big cities. I hope that you, as well as the local leader in Zagora, will make sure that all the other leaders of the local self-government unit in Zagora try to find a common language with the banks, so that the ATMs are available in all the small places.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45676	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45677	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, here before the question, I would also like to join my colleagues and colleagues in commending the Secretary of State for accepting the suggestions of the MPs and what we have actually shown that the safety of citizens is ahead of all other interests and I think this is a good example so that perhaps in future we should, in synergy with everyone, make a good and quality law that will protect our citizens. And to you, do you colleagues, that we have achieved the protection of the EU that we belong to in the security of citizens and do you think there is anything else that could be done to make our citizens truly safe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45678	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45679	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Did we achieve security when it comes to people, lives and property, certainly those of the law, the law needs to be especially on the subject of today's final law on the protection of monetary institutions, always needs to be better and here, and today's proposal certainly improves it, precisely for the protection of people and the very monetary institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45680	The following is the replica of the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45681	Dear MPs, I'm actually going to take the opportunity to ask the secretary a question since I'm late for the presentation of the gentleman who's actually president of the board. It is actually about institutions that have paid turnover in their work, e.g. It's about the press kiosks and the little post office. We are all aware that they are actually carrying out the same traffic as they are doing, or the work being done at the offices of the FINA, when we look at what all the FINA needs to satisfy all to satisfy the law, these are really big investments and there is an automatic transaction in this FINA more expensive. My question is, first of all, do you think that these press kiosks and small post offices are safe on the one hand and on the other hand, given that payment transactions are being made, would it be okay to at least draw close to security measures, those measures that are prescribed for FINA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45682	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45683	Well, I certainly believe that it will be prescribed and that in this final law are prescribed precisely in view of the modern protection of ATMs, the effective reduced risks and the physical attacks and the endangerment of the inhabitants themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45684	The following is the replica of the respected representative of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45685	Dear MPs, as you come from the ruling majority and on the trail of what I was talking about, I carefully examined the government's official instructions on the use of ATMs that concern our citizens most. I appeal to you to intervene in a way that makes these instructions more clear on the one hand, on the other hand, all the difficulties that go on the burden of our citizens, such as that they themselves must protect themselves when using ATMs, transfer them to competent institutions, so that these measures are no longer necessary and other measures to protect our citizens' financial security and also their proactiveness in terms of not walking away if someone is suspicious of you but do something to make sure that such a person is checked, I appeal to you to do something that you really do step up and in this practical application of ATMs that would certainly benefit our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45686	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45687	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic. I fully agree with you, and I believe that will be the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45688	Thank you. We also have one final, which is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45689	I find this topic extremely important and I regret that some of these topics are not bigger and wider because they are topics that concern our citizens and these are topics that are really useful to our citizens, these are the things that we all face in everyday life, unfortunately the subject as such is not recognised in the Assembly, but since I see many more questions here, I would like to ask some of them in this final presentation. Finally, I can commend the positive practice that, unfortunately perhaps because of the subject that did not raise such an interest we did have an adequate response from the ruling so that the proposal for an opposition to the deadline was accepted. This should also be used in other laws that are also recognised in the media as politically interesting. Another thing that was not to be considered since we were all exposed to health risks during this crisis is the way the ATM is used, or the appropriate hygiene protection of the ATMs, so no one has talked about any uniform measures that banks or instructions that the HZJZ should give to regularly disinfect the ATMs and keep clean, which is certainly a question regarding the protection of the health and safety of our citizens, especially in the time of this crisis, and otherwise because it is a place that is very transportable and that is used by different individuals. So in order for our health to be protected, we need to know how to maintain ATMs properly. On the one hand, it is hygiene or ATM disinfection, and on the other hand there is a major issue of ATM cleanliness. What we're not talking about today is that people are still very dependent on something that might not even exist, which is the paper extract of an ATM that will tell you the situation in your account. This is the same state in your account you can see by clicking on the ATM correctly. However, people like to list paper, so they like the material nature of the paper where they would see the state in their account. What happens after that, and as far as environmental protection is concerned, that paper gets wrinkled and thrown past the ATM. So ATMs are often sad and big junkyards. In this sense, apart from the need to place the trash next to each ATM, we should also work on the development of the consciousness and culture of our citizens so that ATMs on the one hand are not used to extracts that are unnecessary and can be seen, so that paper is not printed unless it is needed, and on the other hand, that ATMs are not thrown around as well as banks should be warned that more often, several times a day, they keep that space clean and properly. Finally, I will return to what is becoming more and more about our citizens, especially the proactive citizens who are participating in the technological achievements of our time, and these are some new forms of payment, digital currencies that are increasingly occupying the public's attention and whose regulation will also become a question of the future. I therefore believe that HS should also open new topics, know what is happening in society, warn about some things of Croatian citizens in order to justify their role not only as a legislative body but also as an institution in the country. The first thing I want to say about bitcoin is often, as their comparative advantage, their anonymity. All the transactions ever recorded on the blockage, I took bitcoin not as the only krypto currency but as the most famous one that I do not further explain so that citizens can understand this problem, all the transactions that have ever been recorded on so-called. The blockers don't delete, they just supplement. However, senders and recipients are not identified by names but by their cryptographic identities, etc. addresses that are nothing but their public keys, while being kept in handcuffs. So the bitcoin transactions aren't anonymous, you know exactly who's to whom and what you sent, you just don't know who's behind the address or the public key. So anonymity is possible, but requires caution and cannot hide transactions but only their destinations. What's the most common advantage of bitcoin, and as such, it stands out that there is no central control. But there's always the possibility that some government can take control of the bitcoin and that kind of currency because they can ban government transactions, stock exchanges, and so on, which can affect bitcoin acceptance. Therefore, there is no state control in them and can be paid directly among the parties and the banks and card homes as intermediaries which make them attractive, but their use should be further considered and notified to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45690	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take a break for a 15-minute window, and then we'll see each other again at 11 and 50. It's 11:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] No, we haven't even started yet, so we can start by doing business, and then we can do this. Here it is, we are running out of time so we will continue to work and go to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture based on Article 159. Rules of Procedure and Article 11. Law on scientific activity and higher education. We have a request for a break, honourable representative Marin Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45693	Thank you, Your Honor. I am looking for a break on behalf of the IDS Club to further consult on this topic, and to warn members and members, colleagues and colleagues in the assembly. Namely, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development in the previous meeting came past its legal obligations and powers and have denied the prior approval of the Agency for Science and Higher Education for the start of a medical study in Pula. Namely, the Agency for Science and Higher Education has given its agreement and a positive assessment of the launch of the same, however, even though additional conditions have been met where an agreement on cooperation with KBC Rijeka and Zagreb and the Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka and Split has been concluded and we hope that in the next meeting of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development will take place within the framework of its powers and will decide and assess whether a study of medicine in Pula should be conducted as an integrated study of 6 + 0, and we also hope that it will take care of the polititric development of educational and scientific institutions in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45694	Thank you very much, of course I approve of the break. In accordance with Article 239b. We will continue to work, so I would like to ask the honourable representative Vesna Bedekovic, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45695	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues before us here is the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to the Croatian Assembly as a parent working body as a proposing and on the basis of Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in conjunction with the provision of Articles 11 and 2. Law on scientific activity and higher education and decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and on the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the composition of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is prescribed in such a way that the National Council has a president and 16 members of which 4 scientific advisors are employed in the permanent calling of scientific institutes, 7 regular professors in permanent calling, 2 high school professors and 2 persons in the field of economy and 2 persons in the field of entrepreneurship. The work of the National Council is also attended by a representative of representative trade unions in science and higher education, of course without the right to decide, as prescribed. In the light of the provision of Articles 11 and 2. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education of Presidents and Members of the National Council appoints the Croatian Assembly on a proposal from the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, in a way that each 2 years appoints 8 members of the National Council and the President every 4 years. The candidates for members of the National Council shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of proposals submitted by the scientific institutes, the Rector's Chamber, the University Senates, the Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the HGK, employers' associations, trade unions in science and scientists and members of the academic community, on the basis of a publicly published call for candidates. Since the term of office of 8 members of the National Council, one of which was a scientific advisor in permanent calling employed at the Institute of Science, 3 regular teachers in permanent calling, 2 high school professors, one person in the field of economy and one person in the entrepreneurship, the Government of the Republic of Croatia held a meeting on 11 February this year, on the basis of the procedure carried out, published in a public invitation, set out a list of candidates for members of the National Council. In the process of selecting candidates for members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, 12 candidates from the ranks of scientific advisors in permanent calling took part, 21 candidates from the order of regular teachers in permanent calling, 7 candidates from the classes of high school professors, 2 candidates from the ranks of persons from the economy and 3 candidates from the ranks of persons in the field of entrepreneurship. The Board of Education, Science and Culture of HS has conducted the selection of candidates for presidents and members of the National Council in accordance with Article. 260 of the Rules of Procedure of the HS by a secret vote and in accordance with the above, the Committee shall, at its 12th session held on 19 March of this year, in accordance with the Article. 11 The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education established a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, which it submitted to HS together with its explanation. The proposal for this Decision, for a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, from the ranks of scientific advisors in permanent calling, proposes Dr. sc. Zdenko Franić, for members of the National Council from the ranks of regular professors in permanent calling, is proposed by Prof. Dr. Tomislav Dobranić, Prof. Dr. Milan Orsanić and Prof. Dr. Alan Stojanović. For members of the National Council of Higher School Professors, Dr. sc. Sanja Gonget and Dr. Sc. Djuro Njavro, both in the teaching call of a high school teacher. Furthermore, for a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, from the ranks of persons from the economy, Mr Mladen Pejkovic is proposed, while for a member of the National Council from the ranks of persons from entrepreneurship, Mr. Roberto Kutic. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture has therefore identified the proposal for appointing members of the National Council as I have now cited and, following this, I call on you, dear colleagues and colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45696	Thank you very much. Stay here for a moment because we have more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45697	Dear fellow Bedekovic, you have already been in art. 9th century 1 some and innovations that take place in accordance with the appointment, however, which could be implemented here in other laws, when we talk about 2014 where this is where the National Council received greater powers and the administrative part was reduced, so please refer to this particular segment, the administrative section where such needs are reduced, perhaps often and unnecessary paperwork, and enables the work of the profession in the part where they are in, when we talk about this segment most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45698	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45699	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I thank you for this question. Yeah, like you said yourself, if you look at the article. 6 The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education will then truly agree together with the fact that the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is the highest expert body concerned with the development and quality of overall scientific activities and systems of science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, and as such, it is indeed a priority to discuss the various issues which are of key importance for scientific activity and certainly proposes and encourages the adoption of different measures for its improvement and precisely from this formulation that the National Council should be relieved, as they themselves have said, of that administrative part, and leave more space for quality discussions, but also the same. proposals for quality measures in this area. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45700	The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45701	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleagues, we are a small country, and surely we have to invest in knowledge, we have no natural wealth, but we have smart people, and so it's very important that we invest in science. The recovery and resilience plan will give us some money to help us create material and technical conditions, and now we should continue to invest in people. I think that the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development needs to be strengthened even more, there really needs to be a choice of exceptional and quality people who should be able to be a self-port in the further development of the system of education because we know that whoever has knowledge, has power, then can succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45702	The Honorable Chairman of the Bedekovic Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45703	Thank you very much, dear colleague. In fact, your replica was more of a finding than a question, which I'll agree with anyway. We discussed yesterday and there is still a fresh debate on the draft of the NPO and here, we know that it is precisely in the field of science and higher education as one of those 6 priorities, or as one of the subpriorities, so the projected investment of substantial funds is precisely from the part relating to the withdrawal of funds from the EU, and that will certainly be one strong incentive for strengthening, therefore human potentials and of course the fact that of the total projected resources, which are projected somewhere more than 15% for this area, it is certainly a very good starting position and for withdrawing funds. And empowering people. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45704	Replica also has a respected representative, Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45705	Thank you, Chairman. So, Croatian society is stagnating and backward in all segments, so I will dare say that our academic community is not sufficiently involved in shaping our present and future, it is not critical enough, it is not progressive enough. I dare say it's politically similar and I think it's a problem of this and of any similar appointment. Many people in the higher education system have been compromised by their contribution and their work in the academic community, there seems to be no institution that responds to it. I give you the question, given that you have made a particular selection of candidates, obviously by the ruling majority, what do you expect from the newly elected National Council's calling, specifically what do you expect from the people you propose to choose in this conference?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45706	The Honorable Chairman of the Bedekovic Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45707	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very I would not agree with you that the area of science, in particular the field of science, research and scientific research activities should be linked to any political resemblance or in a situation where members of the National Council are elected as the highest expert body because we can talk about the fact that when elected by the ruling party in the Assembly, then it is politicised, and it all comes down to political similarity, and when some of the people propose respected fellow MPs from the opposition, that then it is about the profession. So it's a pull of the thesis that you're trying to underline all the time. As far as what I expect [[Thank you very much.]] This is respect for art. Six. ... [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45708	The next replica is a respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45709	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd like you to answer two questions if you can. The first question is what criteria did you follow when selecting members of the National Council? And the second question is, do you perhaps have information on what was the explanation of the previous National Council's call, why is it not allowed to open the Faculty of Medicine in Pula? [[/Intruder Bedekovic: I didn't understand. I understood the first part of the question, the second part I didn't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45710	The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45711	So I've got half a minute to do it again. [[Intruder Bedeković: The first part of the question I understood, the second part of you I did not.]] [[I'll allow it because I didn't understand either, part two.]] Okay. The second question is, do you have any idea about the work of the National Council in the last meeting? Did they give you information on the reasons why the Faculty of Medicine could not be opened in Pula?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45713	The Honorable Chairman of the Bedekovic Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45714	It's a little short for me to answer. As for the first part of your question, which we managed when we analyzed all the applications for a public call, of course we led the résumés of all the candidates who appeared and based on their knowledge, competences and professional careers, decided for individual members, as I told you, by a secret vote as they do. The second part of the issue relating to the Faculty of Medicine in Pula, therefore, the situation and the problem is very complex, so when you start a higher education institution and especially the Faculty of Medicine, you have to meet a series of conditions which are therefore laid down in the positive regulations and of course I asked the National Council for information on what is going on, I got the information and there is absolutely no way in the moves of the National Council to be able to think about anyone, anything at all or anything prohibiting or disabling a problem of the Medical Faculty; and [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Hospital in Rijeka and Pula [[Thank you very much.]] as a teaching base hospital, that's what we can... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, thank you, thank you, please.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45715	The board president, please, let's stick to the time. Thank you very much and thank you to the board president. Now we're going to the debate, I'm opening a debate, and the first one on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club is going to speak to the respected representative Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. According to Art. Six. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, is the highest expert body to care for the development and quality of overall scientific activities from the system of science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia. The National Council shall have 21 important tasks in its jurisdiction. Like that. it agrees with the conditions of the rectory choir and the councils of the university and high schools for the acquisition of scientific, teaching and teaching professions. The General Act lays down the conditions for obtaining scientific titles. It suggests declaring scientific centres of excellence and giving opinions on the establishment of scientific and technological parks. It further proposes criteria and relations for the allocation of budgets for scientific activity and higher education for technological development. It also proposes members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, etc. etc. The importance of this body in the system of science and higher education is clear from this. How are members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development selected? The Croatian Parliament is now electing eight members with a four-year term on the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, taking care of regional and regional representation. As the Committee proposes, and how it has proposed these 8 members to the Assembly on a public call from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose candidates, authorised applicants have sent their proposals. 45 proposals arrived at the address of the board. Of those 45 candidates, the board was supposed to choose 8 and recommend them to the Parliament. And the board chose how he needed it. Three from the ranks of university professors in permanent calling, one from the ranks of scientific advisors in permanent calling, two high school teachers, one from the economy and one from entrepreneurship. About how the board chose exactly that's what I want to tell you more about. The law states that members of the National Council are called scientific advisors in the permanent calling that come from institutes and those in calling regular teachers in the permanent calling that come from universities the law states that they are selected from the ranks of top scientists with world-renowned scientific works. Did the Committee consider and withdraw the scientific contribution of the candidates reported? It's not. Did the Committee take care of regional representation in its selection? It's not. Did the Committee bear in mind the even representation of scientific and artistic areas in the National Science Council? It's not. Could the board have taken care of gender equality? It's not that either. Has the board considered anything? It's not. Did the board even discuss it? Of course not. And that's exactly what I want to talk to you about. I want you colleagues and colleagues as well as the whole, so all of you representatives of the Croatian Parliament as well as the general public and especially the academic public to know and know how this proposal was drawn up at the beginning of the session and this thematic session whose only item of the agenda was the selection of candidates or members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. At the beginning of the session, co-chairwoman Bedekovic asked the secretary to share ballots with the board members, and urged members to vote. I asked if there'd be an argument. I've been told he won't, because it's not the usual. I asked again, I suggested since it was a custom, not a business provision to open the debate anyway, and I asked for a word. President Bedekovic told me well if I insist that I get the word after the vote is over. And indeed after two, three minutes of distressing silence, after all the board members had put their ballots in the ballot box, I got the word, so I said what I was going to say about both science and the moment and the candidacys and the importance of the body that these members are making and which I would give the candidates an advantage and why. I said that as long as my colleagues, especially my HDZ colleagues, looked at me in wonder, because the vote was already over, votes were about to be counted and the situation was truly humiliating. But I said it from a higher principle. Now you have a context, now you know the circumstances, now you know how this proposal happened. It was not a question of the opposition's will or position, it was not a question of parliamentary majority or parliamentary minority. That was Parliament's negation. That's unimaginable, or at least I thought it was unimaginable, because that's who we are. It is that we committee, committee for nothing more than education, science and culture, which is why we think that this committee and President Bedekovic in particular is Parliament, that you can get the word when the vote is over. 45 candidates have put their knowledge and expertise and careers and willingness to work in the National Council on the disposition by showing their willingness to take up national, scientific, research and university policies. This willingness and this knowledge and these careers we all unpacked it back and circled 8 names according to the direction from the paper from our pants and jackets, the paper that was our voting compass. That's why I'm not going to talk about the candidates, or the ones the board suggested, or the ones that the board didn't propose. I have no doubt that the parliamentary majority of this proposal will confirm the uniform on Friday when it is said innocently to have conditions for shutting down. However, I would just like to ask you colleagues and colleagues and you who have now applied for the infringements of the Rules of Procedure and for this debate and for the word on other discussions, if you intend to say something, especially with pride on our scientific takeoff, on our orientation and on science and research on digital transition and green transformation and on technological tomorrow, on the international affirmation of our universities, I would suggest that you leave that part out of your exhibitions and instead consider what message we, the Assembly and the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, what message we have sent to this and we send to the scientific community and academic public. And in addition to the final question, how do we do in two years? win, when we re-elected eight members of this council, how are we going to get into this same body to run for anyone? Who doesn't? [[Intruder: Thank you]] HDZ's invitation. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45717	Thank you very much. We have several violations of the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45718	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think he's a broken ankle. 238. The Rules of Procedure, given that my colleague demeans and insults me as president of this committee. In fact, in the selection of members and the proposal, I have only followed the practice of the current presidents of this committee and the practice of the election back several years. As far as the debate is concerned, it's not true that his colleague couldn't discuss it, she gave him a chance, his colleague argued. and, of course, the members of the committee were elected or proposed [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] not in a way that has been proposed and elected by the HDZ, but by all members of the board and by a secret vote. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45719	Thank you very much, thank you very much. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken, you may have felt hit and offended, but this one, I don't think, has crossed that line that's common. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was also reported by the respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45720	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly has been injured. 238, my colleague insulted the board president. Once again, by the same procedure was chosen as before, the debate was opened, it was agreed to discuss next time there might be a promotion. If I remember a few names he mentioned and supported in the debate Mr. Bakic, the board accepted and chose. So for qualifications like this, it's non-democratic, I really don't see the space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45721	Thank you very much. Uh, actually the same as my colleague Bedekovic, I'm sorry if she felt hurt, uh, but I don't think that the line of discussion that wouldn't have been acceptable and that he wasn't injured by the Rules of Procedure. I would suggest that we don't go any further, I think I made my point clearly in these two cases, he'll still be like that. He'd suggest we stay out of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Simičević, do you insist?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45722	Thank you, Vice President HS. He's been injured. In 238, respecting the respected Mr. Bakic and his scientific authority, I think it is not correct to say that we voted on a particular jokebachter or that the proposed people who responded to the contest did not deserve to be in this competition and simply injured their colleagues, and which is not good at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45723	Thank you very much, this one is the same as in the previous two cases. I therefore hold that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Comrade Glavasevic, come on, I've been praying to my colleague, Ackhar, please, let's not. I made my point clearly. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45724	And the injury is the Rules of Procedure, Art. 237, Mr. Vice President. Usually, it's a practice when one and the same breach of the Rules of Procedure are repeated, which is what our president does regularly, so at least the other person says it's time for a warning. My colleague Pavić, for example, said the same thing as my colleague Bedekovic, but you did not give him a warning, that's all. This one, and you decide whether the Rules of Procedure is hurt or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45725	Comrade Glavasevic, don't teach me how to run a session. When you become vice president of HS and sit here, then you'll be able to run the sessions. For the time being, I'm running it, and I'm assessing whether a injured Rules of Procedure or not, whether or not I'm gonna give someone a warning, whether or not he's crossed the line where I have to give him a warning or not, but I'm just going to say he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure, right? Let me make that assessment. Uh, now we're going to move on to club representatives, so the first one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Kresimir Ackar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45726	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the distinguished and respected fellow MPs. The National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development is the most expert body which is concerned with the development and quality of the entire scientific activities and systems of science and high education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia. The National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development was established on the basis of amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education of 2014 in such a way as to assume the obligations of the current National Council for Science, the National Council for Higher Education, the National Innovation System Council and the Technological Council. These amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education of 2014 gave the National Council greater responsibility for directing and monitoring higher education, scientific activities and innovation systems in the Republic of Croatia, reducing its scope of the tasks of administrative nature, while at the same time increasing its role in the adoption and direction of public policies in higher education, in science and technology, and in this sense the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, in line with the law, is in fact the most professional body concerned with the development and quality of overall scientific activities from the science and high education and technological development systems in the Republic. And its work and some basic tasks are primarily to discuss issues of importance for scientific activity and to propose and encourage the adoption of measures to improve it. It then proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve higher education, gives consent to the conditions of the rectorial assembly, the council of universities and higher schools, to acquire scientific teaching, artistic teaching and teaching. It is also followed by development and determined by scientific and artistic fields and fields. Its name is the regional scientific and artistic councils, parent committees for individual fields, and then lays down the conditions for acquiring scientific titles, lays down the minimum conditions for working obligations for scientific and artistic and scientific artistic teaching in which the report is submitted in accordance with the law. It then lays down, among other things, the conditions to be met by scientific organisations and higher universities in the field of art in order to obtain the authority to conduct the selection process in scientific titles or artistic component of artistic teaching in accordance with the Law on Science and Higher Education. The system of the National Council shall be prescribed by provision 9, provision of Article 9(1). The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education under which the National Council has presidents and 16 members, of which 4 scientific advisors are employed in permanent call at scientific institutes, 7 regular teachers in permanent calling, 2 high school professors and 2 persons in the field of economy and 2 persons in entrepreneurship. The work of the National Council shall also be attended by a representative of representative trade unions in science and higher education, of course and of course without the right to decide. Since the term of office of 8 members of the National Council of which one was a scientific advisor in permanent calling employed at the Scientific Institute, 3 regular professors in permanent calling, 2 high school professors, one person in the economy and one person in the entrepreneurship area, the Government of the Republic of Croatia held a meeting on 11 February 2021 on the basis of the public call procedure, established a list of candidates for members of the National Council. In the election process for members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, 12 candidates from the ranks of scientific advisors participated in the permanent calling, 21 candidates from the order of regular teachers in permanent calling, 7 candidates from the ranks of high schools professors, 2 candidates from the ranks of persons in the economy and 3 candidates from the ranks of persons in entrepreneurship. Since all 8 candidates of these proposed candidates possess both professional and scientific and academic qualities necessary for the performance of all tasks from the work of the National Council of Representatives of the HDZ will support the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45727	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45728	So today Mr. Damir Bakic gave a historic speech in the Croatian Parliament perhaps the best speech I could hear in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. And it wasn't just a speech that was an earthquake testimony about how we got to the selection of the proposed candidates today. It is not just that during the selection we did not take care of all those criteria that the law prescribes from world-renowned works, from regional representation, from gender equality, the main problem is that about candidates, in fact, the parent board, the parent board of the Croatian Parliament, did not even discuss the arrival of the candidacy because it is not the custom. And it is not a custom that we have established now that is not any newspaper that happened in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, so it works since HDZ puts the wrong feet on the wrong foundations of the state, destroys it, destroys it from mandate to mandate and calls it into motion, and even when they are in opposition. I like it when we talk about the truth, and the truth is that there's been a denial of parliament, there's been a denial of everything HS should serve, and the way we've chosen candidates the ruling majority will vote on, we've sent a message that this country is denying science. There's been a science negation. What we should actually do, we should film Damir Bakić's speech, rephrase on all social networks, on all channels, we know that Croatian public service will not transfer everything that needs to be transmitted from that speech, we should send this process to all scientific and educational institutions in the Republic of Croatia without discussion, without the possibility of being able to share papers as a jokebachter for whom to vote. Mr. Damir Bakic won't do it because he's a gentleman. But someone else who can afford to be a little unconventional. You should call on all those who are educated in Croatia today to rebel and rebel because why their knowledge, what qualifications, what do you invest in, when no potential can achieve here? Croatia, not Croatia's HDZ government, has driven all our successful scientists away because they could not get the recognition they deserve here. Here are some other mediocritys that you will push into the front lines, because they are obedient. When I asked the Committee presidents what it expected from the newly elected candidates, I expected them to say at the very least that they were asking them to detect the main problems and solve these problems. Mr. Bakic was talking about the 21 important function or authority this Council has. Well, one of them is the working conditions and the results of the Rector's Assembly, so one of them is the distribution of budgets, so one of them is ethics in science and higher education, and I wonder, whatever we have to discuss in a country where we have a rector, character and deeds like Mr. Boras. When I prepared this debate, I read a little bit about the affairs available to every average reader of some of our portals, now that I'm not advertising them, it would turn out incorrect. And when I listed and listed these affairs, when I listed the contents of what Mr. Boras was doing in his term,...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45729	Dear Representatives Oreshković, here is the subject of no rector of any university but the appointment of members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, as far as I know, no rector has been proposed or voted on, and all, please, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45730	Dear Mr. Reiner, I'm going to give you and the other presidents each and every one of them a little block and a little pen that you'll be able to print those cartoons on every time you interrupt me like this behind a pay phone. I don't know if you're doing it in that amount to other agents. We're talking about higher education and science today We are talking about the members of the Council and their powers [[Intruder: We are not talking about rectors and I warn you. 232. yes...]] We are talking about what is expected of newly elected candidates, the story is that their task is to solve problems in the system of science. [[Option:... stick to the topic.]] There is talk of their powers, one of them concerns budget spending and the conditions of the rector's work, and if we are unable to tell this speaker that one of Mr. Boras's biggest problems and his affairs, starting with an attempt to honor the late Milan Bandic's doctorate, from the construction of the summer house, from pressing charges against my own students and not to list any further. Too bad there are no regulations of the Rules of Procedure that might say that you are the one who violates the Rules of Procedure because I'm sticking to the subject right now. [[/Intruder: I have you in accordance with Article. 232. For the second time, I warn, and take away the word, for you are speaking out of subject.]] The question has been what we expect from the newly elected members of the Council, if [[I'm asking you to stop talking.]] When we discuss their candidacy and their appointment, we cannot say that as representatives who have been given the term of office here [[/Intruder: I am the foundation of you. The 241st century 1 gives me a measure of distance from the session.]] What duration? [[/Intruder: In accordance with Article. 241 century 3 gives you a distance from the double-term session.]] Okay. [[Intruder: Double duration.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45731	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I hope you'll allow me to begin my debate with a little depression that is still relevant to the subject, and besides, this speech won't be long, so I have to get to the point quickly anyway. Uh, can I start with the dyspression? So I wouldn't be away from the session, that's exactly why I'm asking. I don't know what the criteria are. There's arbitration, there's arbitration, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, but let's get started. [[/Intruder: Read them in your Rules of Procedure. It would be good for everyone to read the final Rules of Procedure.]] When I was significantly younger than I was today, somewhere at the end of high school, one summer I challenged myself to translate Greek into myself for the soul of John’s Revelation. I liked that text very much, among other things, because when you read it sociologically, it contains one, one often neglected political dimension today. In preparation for this debate, I thought of a part, and I'll explain why. This is one part of chapter 3, in which, for those who have not read, John is on Patmos, his angel dictates a letter to his pen for seven churches in Asia Minor, in which he refers to their circumstances and circumstances. That's what the church in Laodice says; I know your deeds, you're neither cold nor hot. Oh, you're cold or you're hot, but you're soft, you're not hot or cold, I'm gonna throw you out of my mouth. If I had a little more time for this debate and perhaps the second vice president of the Parliament behind me, I would allow myself a peaceful classical conscience if I first read this piece of text to you in Greek, but the Tempus fugit. Today we are discussing the appointment of one of the most important bodies for the development and quality of all scientific activities from the science system in Croatia, the bodies that should therefore play a prominent and well-known role in our society. If anyone remembers any significant debate of their importance for science in the general public, I mean, not from us interested or some of the measures they have proposed to improve higher education as they were set up under the conditions set by the Rector's Assembly for the acquisition of the title. At least that's been a lot of talk lately. Honestly speaking their work was not in the spirit of my dypression nor hot nor cold but soft. They are not the only culprits, of course, but the burden of responsibility is also theirs for the chaos at the University of Zagreb and for the fact that our universities are incompetent and for everything that is not right in science in Croatia. The future members can therefore only be told not to be soft, to accept the responsibility they asked for to be entrusted with this Parliament and even a warm recommendation, perhaps we should listen to what counterpart Bakic said and what counterpart Oreskovic was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45733	We have one replica of the respected representative Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45734	Your Honor, you were also a representative in the previous assembly in this House, and you also decided on the composition of the National Council since it is elected every two years in the Assembly. Please inform if you know what the criteria were then on the one hand, whether it was discussed, which conclusions were made. And secondly, have you ever discussed the decisions of the National Council that were not in line with the views of some of our MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45735	The response of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45736	Thank you very much. In the previous assembly of the Parliament at the time of the election, I was no longer a member of the Committee on Science, so I had no opportunity to participate in a discussion on the working body. However, as much memory serves me, we have the opportunity to see today everything that did not work out. I don't remember ever having a plenary session to discuss the work of the National Council, except in the reports. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45737	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go. Just please before you start speaking I would like to ask the honourable representative Oreskovic to leave the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45738	Excuse me with what explanation? You took away my word for double duration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45739	No, I told you a distance from the double-term session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45740	Distances from the session?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45741	Yeah, listen to what I'm saying. Don't just be in your movie. Listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45742	It's hard to listen to you because you get absolutely every time I say it. Whether I leave the assembly or not, everything I said today will remain in double duration recorded in the consciousness of our citizens and residents than anything you said during your entire political mandate and career.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45743	Great! Now please leave the hall. Dear Representative Bedekovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45744	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here are just a few short sentences as long as it allows me about the National Council in general as we have already spoken there have been words and that the National Council as the most expert body providing for the development and quality of overall scientific activities and systems of high education and technological development has important tasks. The law numbered 21. I'm not going to repeat them again. We can all look at article 6. The law and we'll see what important tasks these are. The same law also provides for the composition, but also for the selection of members of the National Council, in particular Article 11. The law where the fact is and it is true that members of the National Council are elected by the Committee and should certainly be taken into account that the law regulates them to be chosen by the Committee, proposes that, respectively, taking into account the representation of representatives in the field of science and art, and the region and equally on the representation of scientists from the economy. And now the fact is, if we analyze the proposed members, 8 members of the National Council are the fact that it can be noticed that the missing members from the technical area, or from the artistic area. It is equally noticeable that the sub-represented members of the university are from the institute outside Zagreb. Namely, all three regular teachers are from the University of Zagreb, and one is from the Institute of Medical Research. We can note that one is a representative of the University and higher schools in Vukovar and that one is a representative of the Croatian Association of Employers from Istria. The rest are all from Zagreb. And when it comes to unbalanced distribution, that's how I say discipline when it comes to members of the National Council, the fact is that out of all 18 members of the National Council, so even those old ones who have not had their mandate and new even four economists. And here, indeed, with due respect for this discipline and with the fact that among the appointed ones there are very prominent economists, with high qualifications and equally with international experience, there is a lack of scientific fields as well as in the field of art, while on the other side the area of social science is over-represented, so predominantly and I believe that the Committee would, in the next election, certainly need to take care of, therefore, Article. 11th, i.e. on representation of representatives from different areas but also on regional representation. What I would like to really point out once again and underline that the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is being represented by parliamentary representatives from both the position and the opposition and that HDZ neither proposes nor chooses itself. And when I hear some colleagues or colleagues talking about the earthquake testimony that was happening on this committee, I don't know if I would laugh or cry, so this committee has been working for a long time, and I've been his member and president for some time now, and I've been following only the practice from the previous ones, and I'm going to say, I'm still going to check it out, but I mean the previous ones, I don't know 10 years where, in a similar way or in the same way, he's made a choice of members. In the end, an earthquake testimony from an esteemed colleague about the fact that he could not or should not have discussed it, an earthquake testimony about the fact that the committee had not considered it, analysed the candidates, not true, the materials were sent a week earlier, available to everyone, so ultimately, there is also the fact that two candidates chose the committee by a secret vote of the same fellow concerned and proposed themselves. So there's no No words about non-inclusion and... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45745	Thank you very much. We have more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45746	Dear MPs, I would only ask you to stop there if you were standing before I asked you that question about the Faculty of Pula, it is that we have now heard from a colleague who is coming from Istria, about the problems about this approval to open up the college and we have heard several times the presentations by our colleague Sanja Radolovic who said that in fact the university has met all the conditions and that it can be opened, however open.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45747	I'm sorry, I have to warn you both. It's not a topic of discussion right now. We, we can open that topic under some other circumstances and it's an important topic, I agree, but now we're talking about appointing members of the National Council, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45748	If you'll excuse me, I can answer briefly, so kindly please, although it is not a subject, I am obliged by my colleagues to answer. So the issue of starting the Faculty of Medicine in Pula is a question that has been going on for some time and the fact is that this institution initially had a problem with providing a teaching base. We all know that the General Hospital in Pula is in the category of general hospitals, in order to be a teaching base, there should be a clinical hospital and that is what the National Council has indicated. It pointed out, among other things, the problem of the staff and if someone cannot agree whether the hospital, the KB in Rijeka will become a teaching base of this university or not, it is neither a job nor a committee nor a national council. The National Council only pointed to some facts that needed to be corrected And as far as I know, they've been repaired in the meantime. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45749	Thank you very much. Please, let's stick to the subject The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic. [[Intruder Bedekovic: Thank you for letting me answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45750	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Members, it is really not clear to me what ease the people who have responded to the competition and we who are here in the Croatian Parliament have not come by decree, we have been chosen, also these people who appear in the competition, they will be chosen as well, and now whether the board has made a material mistake and has chosen or proposed someone who does not have a qualification for it, it is really not clear to me. And I'm surprised with what ease the people in this assembly are belittled by other people. All men are worthy of admiration, all men worthy of our respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45751	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45752	My colleague, I think this is not just about the ease of demeaning this committee and members of the board and the demeaning of candidates who are all in turn, and we have seen from the analysis as I have told their résumés, candidates worthy of being members of the National Council. This is about ease in my court, destruction, destruction at all that is proposed. I reiterate, these candidates were neither elected nor proposed by the HDZ, proposed by all the board members, the committee consisted of parliamentary representatives of the position and the opposition and by a secret vote, without any influence on anyone. And the way it's been done for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45753	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45754	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The esteemed chairman of the board, so I really don't know where the drama is, is that we just respected the procedure of the previous who were on the Committee on Science, there was a secret vote as you said, so the secret vote was also an open debate, part of the candidates got more votes than there are, so they got support and positions and oppositions, if I follow well, 2 or 3 candidates who propose in the debate name and last name Mr. Bakic were chosen by a secret vote and a future debate was agreed, so this is not the only one, there will be another choice for the next 8 so that we can discuss the new practice of selecting members of the National Council, so I really don't see where the panic is. The secret vote, part of it got votes of position and opposition and a new procedure that we can establish.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45755	Thank you very much. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45756	Thank you very much. My colleague, if you have listened to me then you have seen that I have said myself that some things need to be approached differently that when we analyze to see that we really have a sub-representation or pre-represented individual scientific areas, and we certainly need to work on it. No one said it wouldn't work and no one said that we couldn't improve the way we work when it comes to selecting members of the National Council. I will repeat myself, to me as board presidents and as former board member in the former term, so it's strange and unusual and I don't know what to say, another word to choose to describe the surprise, the surprise of the finding that committee sessions are an earthquake witness. That, after all, I say again, we'll choose a new convocation, a new invitation from the candidate, and then we'll [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45757	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45758	Dear colleagues, Bedekovic, since I myself participated as a member of the committee in the debates that concerned the very subjects of this session, I must simply mention for the sake of the public and for the truth that I do not fully understand where my colleagues from the opposition have found a way to criticise democratisation, to criticise something that has been carried out according to everything that has been prescribed by law. You yourself were mentioned to believe that back in the 10 years that you hadn't checked, it was a practice like this. I have personally checked, but what I must also tell you is that even after a secret vote, therefore by the democratic process of elected people, you are on the committee itself and have given your colleagues the right to manifest themselves and to say their opinions, and we simply are not perfectly in the head of any such statement after the democratic process that something was not in accordance with the law, regulations or with everything that should be... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45759	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45760	Thank you very much, dear colleague, and not only do I thank you for bringing out the clean work now, here is the general public information that is now watching and listening to us. So, I will just point out, I really need to underline that it is not true that not all the candidates that have been considered and analysed, the materials for the board's session, and this is a bunch of material, every board member was sent a week earlier just so that we would all have time to analyze each of our résumés, analyze the knowledge, competence and professional work of each of the proposed candidates and his contribution to areas in which they are engaged and after that, so decide and take some of our views and our position and vote in secret on our conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45761	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45762	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is the highest expert body to care for the development and quality of scientific activities. From the résumés we have we can see that all candidates have professional academic and scientific qualities. Since some members have expired, of course they should have chosen new ones. It certainly wasn't easy for the best to choose the best ones, but voting is, of course, a democratic process and then it continues to work. And what I'm interested in is how much can the Committee on Education and the National Council do with their joint work, dialogue, proposals and constructive discussions improve our higher education?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45763	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45764	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, this is an important question and thank you for asking it. Here we talked about how important the role of the National Council is, but also the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as a home working body. The Committee shall, among other things, monitor policies both in the field of science and higher education. Among other things, it is therefore considering reports on the work of all institutions in this area and on the work of the National Council for Science and Higher Education, and the Committee was held at its 5th session on 15 December 2020. We were just discussing a report by the National Council on Work between July 2019 and July 2020, where we were indeed discussing activities to the full and, of course, contributing through various constructive proposals and enlightening this issue. And that's one of the other tasks of this committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45765	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic, earlier in this debate, taught me that I should not lecture him on how to run the session, and after I called on the principle of practice in sharing remarks. You have actually similarly called for the practice of holding a session so far. I mean, why can't you look up to a fellow Reiner, a vice president who actually gives you the legitimacy that if you consider as president of HS's working body it might be good to discuss it because this is at the end and the place where it's being discussed, the argument "is always done" doesn't actually hold water. I really don't believe that, that the debate, even if the practice so far was somewhat different that it could have hurt anyone and I think that actually right now because this debate didn't happen, maybe we have a bigger problem than we would have if it had happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45767	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45768	My colleague, you were a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and can therefore confirm, testify to the way the Committee works and how different things are discussed on the Committee. And be kind enough to think about and remember how many discussions there are on our committee and when you were a member you were really democratic, how much they were really allowed to each member of the Committee, how much we respected each other. And I've always stressed and always emphasized an argumentable, constructive debate always, because we're all primarily academic educated citizens and if we can't communicate academically, then we're not worthy of the position we have. And in that light, and I am alone in my individual debate, and you have chosen with me previous members of the National Council by a secret vote without debate, remember that. And in my debate, I said okay, okay, it's no problem changing practice. We'll change practice, but in a cultural and collegiate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45769	Thank you very much. Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45770	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's only one thing I'd like to say. There's no need to repeat anything. You've alluded to Bedekovic, you've implicated me in my presentation that we haven't had a chance to get acquainted with the applications or the résumés of the candidates. But I didn't say it like I didn't say it in one word, and I don't think it's a bad thing about elected candidates. However, in my presentation, I commended the generally, in general, on all the candidates received. So I just want to deny what's been implicated here. What I said, however, and in doing so, I am left with colleagues who are here very well aware. I begged for the word. I didn't get the word. I only got the word after the vote was over and that's just what I insisted on. So the word after the vote is over is that it is in accordance with the best democratic and parliamentary procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45771	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45772	My colleague Bakiæ, you know that I have great respect and respect for you first and foremost as a university professor, and then as a colleague and always with pleasure and interest I listen to your debates. But I can't help but think that your discussions on our committee are increasingly turning into earthquake testimonies, and they're increasingly turning into illusions that you're not given enough space on the Committee, that you're not given a word on the Committee, that you're being caught up on the Committee, that you're being stopped, that you're not being commented, and I'm just repeating and stressing that I always appreciate the reasoned debate and that after that debate in a way that relationships are collegiate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45773	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavic. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. Here may be just because of colleagues and colleagues who have come forward to deliver their views, if you agree to finish this point, Col. Pavić has his final performance. So, if you're okay with us not insisting on 13 exactly hours?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45774	Here, I won't be long. I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues of the Committee President, I think that so far we have communicated correctly to each other without any figurines in our pockets, respecting each other and respecting each other in all the discussions we have had both in the assembly and on the committees on which we are members together. But I hope it stays that way. But I need to ask you something. If we look at the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education Article 11 states: “Members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development and their Presidents are appointed by the Croatian Assembly on the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture of the Croatian Assembly, taking care of representatives from the field of science and art and the region and on the representation of scientists from the economy.” Now, earlier in your debate, you said that it was not really such representation, that they were not represented in the regions, that they were not represented as having no representation from culture if I am not mistaken. That actually means that the Committee on Education is breaking the law in the election. Here, it says here that you didn't take care of everything in the law. Now, the next question I want to ask is if this vote breaks this law, will the Croatian Parliament? For the following article or Article of the same article states: “The Croatian Assembly shall appoint 8 members of the National Council every two years in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, and the President of that body shall appoint every four years.” So it means, in relation to paragraph 1 of this same article, where it says that we must take account of the representation of representatives from the field of science and art and of the region and of the representation of scientists from the economy. Here, that's what's bothering me, and I'd be sorry if something happened and if we had any problems later, don't let God make any remarks that we have to vote again or any new decisions to make. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45775	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45776	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Prime Minister Pavic, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague Pavić... Member of the Committee. [[You don't understand.]] As the first echelon was not sent to the Open SDP yesterday, I can't see Mrs. Vosovac, I don't see that Mrs. Radolovic. I don't see anyone who's a member of the Committee on behalf of the SDP who's been to the debate, at the vote. So you don't know what was going on on the board, you weren't there. You're also misreading the law. I believe you and your colleague, Bedekovic, will see to it that you have to take care of it. And just to encourage that practice because the current practice was being implemented we opened up and we were and we spoke to the gentleman... and everyone that we're ready to see if we need a new practice. [[You don't understand.]] But you weren't on the board, I'm sorry you didn't send someone on behalf of the SDP who was on the board when we discussed it there. You weren't there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45777	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45778	Dear colleague Marko Pavić, have you heard a single word I've said about the debate on your committee about voting on that committee that I've criticised, that I've mentioned anything? I just read the law, and I asked Mrs. Vesna's colleague to explain to me whether the law was broken or not. If you heard something that I was saying about working on the board, please tell me what I said and I'll bow deep. If you don't, then say hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45779	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45780	Thank you very much. My colleague wouldn't answer the line, but since you're very wise, I have to admit, I'm going to ask you a question through your debate. Therefore, there is no violation of the law because the law contains a formulation, taking into account representation, etc., etc. So, the law doesn't say anything about what, what, so from what scientific area we choose. So the law wasn't broken. What I said in my debate, and I'm glad that you've figured it out and said it yourself, we'll think about it during the next pick, so we'll come up with a plan. Here you need to create a way of choice in order to define the way of choice in order to have representatives of different scientific areas, regional representation etc. with a note. The Committee can't influence who's going to make this call to the public. In practice, it can simply happen that I don't know myself from the field of art or technical or I don't know any candidates. Then what do we do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45781	Thank you very much. It's a nice hall. [[Attack Bedeković: That's why the law contains only the formulation of keeping accounts.]] Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45782	Thank you for your response. My next question would be if you hadn't explained it to me, what happens if there isn't this representation by the members who responded to the competition, given that if they're not there, we can't name them? Is the competition repeating or remaining old members or is something else going on? And I agree, and I think it would be a good idea to change the practice of discussing these people on the Committee. It's a minimum of correctness without there being any thought in without...... [[Attack Bedeković:... not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45783	Comrade Bedekovic, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45784	No matter what, there's no reason to set something up, if there was something going on under the table, but it would be... And explain to Mr. Pavic that I didn't say anything about it. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-15-0.u45785	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. As I was announced, even on two occasions, we will now move to the presentation of the position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives, and will first speak on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
