ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u42778	Your Honor. We have local elections that are of paramount importance for our citizens, for our local residents. Since Croatia, which is more than 80% of its territory, is actually a rural country, today I would like to take advantage of my presentation to all candidates, especially those who will run in rural units of local and regional self-government, have suggested several measures that can help the survival of that space. Many measures could be initiated and implemented by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, but they unfortunately turned to large systems by completely ignoring the problems of family economies. I therefore hope that one of the colleagues of the future mayors, mayors or mayors will still listen to the problems of the OPG and, with its support, strengthen those who deserve it the most. There are countries that hold their peasants as a drop of water on their palms and take care of them, which is a clear example of Austria and we should not be too smart but we should literally copy their good examples of practice. I will list the 10 measures that need to be taken to improve agricultural production, and they are all closely related to... supply chains, a green agenda and a reduction in the impact of climate change. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We primarily need improvements in infrastructure, so road, road connections, mobile networks, water lines and sewers, and arrangements of unclassified roads where I primarily think of Polish roads without which no quality agriculture has been developed. It should then be possible to sell products directly on domestic law. It is necessary to create a system of traceability and to simplify the procedure of domestic sales, to introduce, for example, "Open Door Days" and to free local tax pay producers in those days. Then, it is necessary to insist on a joint request to the ministry to allow public procurement towards kindergartens, schools, hospitals, military facilities, to purchase agricultural products directly from producers from their territory and without public procurement procedures. I'll take just one example that's quite absurd, and that's to say, milk from Slavonia is going to pasteurization in Zagreb, so it goes back. Then, within this measure, it should be possible to cook a certain amount of milk to institutions and restaurants for their own needs. The next measure would be to help farmers connect with customers, such as encouraging customers from Dalmatia and from the Adriatic to buy products from the OPGs from Slavonia through for example subsidising payments of mileage, as our units of local self-government and regional self-government can. Then start buying cattle through auction halls and associations. At present, manufacturers cannot affect the price but are determined by customers. I am obliged to mention here a common practice of non-payment of cattle delivered where our cattlemen remain completely unprotected and powerless. Then investment in cloning facilities in the county area, thus expanding existing capacities and obtaining mobile slaughterhouses. In Croatia today we have about a million sheep and goats, and only 45,000 are slaughtered in slaughterhouses, everything else is illegal. Then strategically turn to those OPGs from their fields and provide them with conditions for development. They will create new jobs on their own and start developing local environments. Then provide special aid to milk producers as purchasers give up buying if the quantities produced are reduced. Then build processing facilities because very little where we have an individual mini-milkmaker, and their advantage is very important. Then work on joining farmers and opening agricultural incubators with areas for processing, sorting, packaging and the like, invest in the finalisation of products. And inescapable, and necessarily strengthening the leader of access and the work of LAGs that respect the approach "from botto top". I remind you that, together with open approach, care and support, we can very much influence the future and survival of our agriculture in rural space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43058	The next club of representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Sacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43059	Croatian public. I have a need to address today with our opinion on a rough manipulation that we want and is already being made public about the initiative of Ognjen Kraus, Milorad Pupovac, Pusic and other people in the Croatian famous public who are trying to deceive the Croatian public, Croatian people and give us a partial solution to our historical problems, the problems in which we have been meeting as citizens of the Republic for years and have given their proposal to ban, as they have stated, the use of Ustasha, fascist, Chetish and other symbols of totalitarianism in the Republic and that it is actually sanctioned as a criminal offence, even citing special sanctions in our Penal Law. We Croatian sovereigns remained appalled by such strong manipulation because in this initiative, it left out for no reason, without any historical need, however, contrary to many resolutions, the EU parliament, the EU Council, completely abandons the condemnation of criminal totalitarian regimes, communist regimes, communist, Yugoslav and Croatian totalitarian regimes, which had already been condemned by this honorable Dom, HS in 2006 by the Parliament's declaration of condemnation of the crimes of the Yugoslav and Croatian totalitarian communist regime. This was publicly demonstrated by the EU back in '96. Mr. Also, by Resolution 1481 of 2006 on the need for international condemnation of totalitarian communist regimes, the EU has condemned, the Council of the EU condemned all these atrocities, the crimes committed in these regimes throughout history. But for Fireen Kraus, for Milorad Pupovec, it's not enough. In fact, they limit their level of criticism and condemnation only by ideological opposites, and ignore the EU Council, the European Parliament, 2019, adopted an important resolution on the need for a European memory where all crimes, all regimes, Nazi, fascist and communist are equally condemned. Now they want to frame us, in fact, our people in Croatia, abolize all crimes, more than 500 thousand Croatian citizens after II. svt. The war was killed on various crossroads, just from the Yugoslav and communist totalitarian systems. They want to abolize these crimes, leave their symbols, the five-point star despite the clear condemnations of the civilized world, the Croatian public. We have lived 30 years in Croatian freedom, and today we have clear, you see, even bold initiatives, to highlight ideological enemies as criminals, which the EU condemns, but its own from which they originate, ideologically, er, miles and their own heritage were political, ideological, any other, they want to protect and thus actually bring about the very troops of our glorious and honorable Homeland Defense War, in order to ban our unit of HOS their greeting "For Home Ready". We Croatian sovereigns oppose this, and we will strongly point to manipulation and abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43060	Thank you. Thank you very much. Someone has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of the Tales.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43061	Here's what I think is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, I think one incorrect way was to talk about one of our colleagues who wasn't in the Parliament, so maybe he couldn't even defend himself. I just wanted to be able to relate that fascism in all its forms, including Ustivity, Chetism, Nazism, is the worst evil in human history because it was going to be annihilation of groups of people. Whether all people from Germany, Croatia or any nationality are extinct, and many religions and ideologies are They committed crimes, but they weren't. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] criminal in the beginning. [[Intruder: That this...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43062	it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because you know very well that in free speech people often say things that I personally disagree with, but it is freedom of speech and parliamentaryism towards it, regardless of whether we agree or disagree, especially in this segment, in free speech everyone can really say their views, and it is up to us to agree or disagree with them, is it? Therefore, the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and that would have ended the work for today. We will see each other again on Wednesday, April 21st at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dental Medicine, second reading. I wish you a pleasant weekend. Session interrupted at 12.10 hours. The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43135	Dear colleagues and colleagues. There aren't many of us, but I hope you'll listen to me. I would just continue the debate and the tone in which we have talked so far and in fact the subject is the spending of money from the state budget and what is happening now soon in the next five years when 6.3 billion euros will come to Croatia, on the one hand grants and on the other hand about 3.6 million euros of loans that we can take to complete all the projects we want to complete. Given that we have heard problems in public procurement today, we have not even mentioned everything, it would invite the Prime Minister and the Government to take as soon as possible steps and actions to change the procedure in public procurement, to introduce additional controls, to introduce additional inspections, to minimise as much manipulation and malfeasance as possible in public procurement. We have a lot of objections, one part of what we saw today, one part of which we tried to communicate with the president of the commission, she accepted it, and I think we'll talk about it further, but for that we also need cooperation with the prime minister, we need cooperation with the government, we need cooperation with ministers who are actually responsible for the implementation of certain public procurement procedures. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that we have some serious problems in a part of the procurement that doesn't go through the public procurement system. We have seen this even now that some data has been published in the media, when the data has been published that in the Ministry of Health is a system which is actually a ridiculous paid 4.5 million kuna. I already said in my debate, believe me it is a system that is demanding less than the demanding laboratory exercises at the second year of computerization on the FER, on TVZ or on the Faculty of Information at..., not to mention the technological solution on technology used, it is actually technology used without the problems of primary school students. So the cost of none, the system is charged about 50 times what it's worth. And what's the worst thing about that system is that there were mistakes made and big mistakes that would have caused the students to fail in their labs to fail the exam. And to the gentleman who did it, the company that did it was without a problem paid 4.5 million kuna. Let's imagine how much time it takes to make 4.5 million kunas, not talking about how much time it takes to save 4.5 million kunas because he had the cost of a maximum of 20, 30, 50,000 kuna, maybe 100, and 4 million and 400 could have put aside. It's beautiful. It's great. But it can't go on like that anymore. If we're going to have such price differences in public procurement for the work we're going to do as part of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, what are we going to do? Nothing. What's the effect? None. Who are we gonna catch up to? No one. We need to spend 12% of GDP on an annual basis in five years, it's big money, it needs a lot of projects, but it needs to be taken care of how that money is going to be spent. So I call on the prime minister, I call on the government, gentlemen, let us sit down, let us discuss, let us bring new regulation, to make further controls, to spend this money transparently and honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43227	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which they will speak the respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43228	... Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Today I will talk about the EUROSTAT Report but first allow me a few introductory sentences. The Croatian industry has a long tradition and is the cornerstone of the Croatian economy. The main features of the Croatian industry are the stable quality and reliability of products in line with EU standards. Under the influence of domestic and foreign demand, industrial production recorded positive growth rates. A positive swing began in 2015 after 6 years of recession was stopped in 2020. In 2020, she left many negative memories. She left the Croatian economy in the biggest crisis in 25 years but not only Croatian but worldly. I am going back to the EUROSTAT report. Croatia among EU countries with the largest growth in industrial production, according to the EUROSTAT report Wednesday. In February with Hungary and Ireland, Croatia was in the EU's largest-growing group of countries, while at EU and Euro-area levels production was reduced. In the EU, seasonally adjusted industrial production fell by 0.9% in February compared to the previous months, when EUROSTAT grew by 0.8%, according to data. in the euro area, production decreased 1% in February compared to January when it also increased by 0.8% according to EUROSTAT data. The strongest in both areas fell by 1.9% in February and the production of permanent consumer goods decreased by 1% in the EU and by 1.1% in the Euro zone. The use zone of the common European currency has seen a significant decline in energy production by 1.2%. The production of non-permanent consumer goods has almost stagnated compared to January in the EU as well as in the Euro zone. Among the EU member states whose EUROSTAT data has been available, production in France dropped by 4.8% in February at monthly level. Following Malta and Greece with a production drop of 3.8% and 2.5% respectively. Croatia was singled out among EU countries with the largest growth in industrial production in February compared to the previous month by 3.4% according to seasonal data. In January, production increased by 1.5%. The largest growth in production was recorded by Hungary and Ireland by 4.8% and 4.2% respectively. At the annual level, industrial production in the EU fell 1.1% in February according to adjusted data. It increased by 0.4% in January, which is, of course, re-shown by EUROSTAT data. In the Euro zone production dropped by 1.6% in February,... 0.1% fall in the previous month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The highest annual level in the EU and in the Euro zone decreased the production of non-permanent consumer goods by 3.8 and 4.3% respectively. Following the decline in production of capital goods by 2.4% in the EU and 2.2 in the Euro zone. The EU's highest annual production of permanent consumer goods increased by 2.4% in February, which in the Euro zone was the only bright spot with a growth rate of 0.7%. At an annual level among EU countries whose data EUROSTAT has been available, the largest decline in production in February marked Malta by almost 11%. The following is Estonia and France with a decrease in production of 8.9% and 6.4% respectively. In Croatia, industrial production increased 5% in February compared to the same month last year after a 1.8% increase in January. Ireland again recorded the largest increase in production by as much as 41.4%, followed by Lithuania with 9.7% and Finland with 5.6%. Of course, this information for Croatia is cheerful, but we are aware that it is far from that growth before the covid crisis, but certainly a stream of hope and optimism, aware that the dynamics of recovery of production will naturally dictate the epidemiological image, but great expectations are also in the means, but also in the reforms that we expect from the National Recovery Plan. Of course, we all expect further good results from industrial production together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43329	The next Club of Representatives will be the MOST on behalf of whom the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u43330	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to talk about a little bit of news that might go past and undetected in view of all the problems that we are witnessing in this crisis, but which I think we should pay special attention to because something tells us about the moral sunflower that threatens us and always threatens us at the time of every crisis. What's this about? You could see one news that says and announces that Denmark, which has decided not to vaccinate its citizens of AstraZeneca, will donate the same vaccine to poor countries. This was announced by the head of the World Health Organization, without even blinking his eye, and I suppose we should have interpreted it as a demonstration of the incredible goodness of rich countries towards poor countries. What's this about? Ladies and gentlemen, if justice were to be a first-rate diplomatic scandal and an indicator of Denmark's moral sunflower, and in fact, the EU, which allows or does not comment on such a potential behaviour by its member states. And in that sense, I believe that Croatia should react. Who has the mechanisms to check how high the individual vaccine is? The EU has them, so our European Medicines Agency has them. Who doesn't have those mechanisms? These mechanisms don't have poor countries. And what is the message of this kind of action then that what is not good enough for European citizens, which is potentially risky for their health, will be given to poor countries, therefore not to people, can be experimented with. It will be a demonstration of our well-being, and rather it should be interpreted as a statement of resolution of potentially accumulated medical waste. It is not good enough for the citizens of Europe, it is dangerous for them, but it will be good enough for some poor citizens of other countries. Such a practice in the Union which calls itself a Union which calls for the rule of law and when it decides on its economic resources must not be tolerated. And Croatia is not only a blind follower of trends, but it needs to be clearly opposed to such practice, and it needs to be reacted on time so that two things do not happen by chance. First, that we decide to do similarly with our medical equipment or in this case with vaccines if we don't use them in time because we can't use them in time because of their medical question and secondly, because tomorrow we can happen and we're in a serious problem with wholesale drugs, we're in a serious problem and what Minister Maric finally dared to say when he thought the cameras weren't listening to him, the fact that the prices of drugs are growing in times of crisis and they're not falling because it's also about profits so that tomorrow we won't have to rely on something that's potentially medically questionable and what will come to us as some kind of donation. It's a time of crisis and a time of responsibility, a time of crisis is not a time for us to close our eyes on the moral sun. Something is medically correct or not, something is good enough for all the citizens of the world or not, there are no citizens over whom to perform a "medical experiment" if it is not good enough for these richer countries. In this sense, Croatia needs to take a clear view. Thomas... Yale University warns that 2 billion people in the world cannot access drugs, the number of boredom has increased greatly due to this crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this raises the question, Can we even do what we want with the vaccines and with any medicines? What about the contracts? What about the manufacturer's responsibility if something isn't good enough? Is there even when we talk about vaccines good and bad product of the standard category? After all, is there any level of responsibility in this crisis? We should demand this responsibility and must not allow immoral charity within the framework of the EU that we belong to ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45787	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 7th session agenda with 5 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. There were no rules of procedure of written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 7th session. And we move to the first point, which is: - Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2019. The applicant shall be the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures under Article. 18. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. The government has delivered its opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Your Honors Minister, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45788	... President HS, honourable MPs and representatives of HS. [[Last-on speaker]] The State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is the state authority responsible for resolving complaints concerning public procurement procedures, concession procedures and procedures for selecting a private partner in public private partnership projects. The State Commission submits an HS report once a year on its work. Therefore, before you there is a report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2019. The component of the report is the data and analyses relating to the appeal cases, as well as the different data on decisions taken by the State Commission in appeal proceedings. In addition, the mandatory part of the State Commission's report is, in accordance with the law and the assessment of the state-of-the-art situation in public procurement, generally and the assessment of the state-of-the-art situation in legal protection where the State Commission has the opportunity to take advantage of its rich experience through the implementation of appeal procedures to point out the real effects that are in practice given to certain legal solutions. As regards the very statistical indicators on the work of the State Commission, it should be noted that during 2019. continued the continued increase in the number of complaints made, and thus during 2019. The State Commission decided on 1209 appeal cases, which represents a slight increase compared to the previous 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The state commission controlled almost 7% of the total number of public procurement procedures published in the electronic public procurement advert. The largest number of complaints received continues to refer to the selection decision phase, with a number of 66% of the total complaints made at that stage. However, a number of complaints about the procurement documentation continued. When we talk about the number of complaints about the procurement documents, it is important to note that what the state commission very often points out is that the control of public procurement procedures at this earlier stage, when the procurement documentation has just been published, has a significant impact on the quality of the public procurement procedures themselves, and on the indirect and avoidance of certain irregularities that may result in financial corrections in procedures financed from EU funds. When we talk about the structure of decisions in appeal cases in 2019. It should be noted that it is during 2019. The state commission adopted an appeal in 47% of appeal proceedings, which represents a slight decline compared to 2018. when that number was about 52%. The state commission rejected the appeal in 25% of the proceedings, while the appeal was rejected in 22% of the cases received before the state commission. So there was a continuation of the high trend of the complaints adopted, so we have a slight decline compared to the previous year, but it is still a high trend of the complaints adopted with the fact that a rather increased number of rejected complaints, which is further analysed and argued in the report. As regards the length of the appeal procedure, and that is what actually is most important to the participants of the procurement procedures and what is most discussed between them. It should be noted that the State Commission is required to make a decision in accordance with the law within 30 days of the receipt of an orderly appeal. During 2019. Despite the continued increase in the number of appeal cases, and the continued increase in the complexity of these same appeals cases, the State Commission managed to maintain the average time limit for resolving the cases under the law, while what is also needed to be highlighted, in the procedures financed from European funds, and were considered particularly urgent, the State Commission was able to further shorten the average time limit for resolution compared to 2018. That's right during 2019. the average time of settlement of the appeal cases, which shall be taken into account from the order of the appeal until the decision has been taken for 27 days, and in cases financed by European funds, that deadline is further reduced to 25 days from the receipt of the orderly appeal. In this way, it also affects the additional reduction of time needed to negotiate projects financed from European funds, which we consider extremely important in the Commission. During 2019. The average time limit of resolution for requests for provisional measures and requests for continuation of the procedure has also been reduced. What is further highlighted in the 2019 report, and is also highlighted in the 2018 report. Starting on 1 January 2018 By way of derogation from the Regulation on electronic appeal, economic operators shall be able to make complaints through interrelated information systems of the State Commission and the electronic public procurement advertiser, means to make an appeal in the form of an electronic complaint. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Almost 47% of complaints were made as an electronic complaint, which represents a significant increase compared to the same number 2018. What is extremely important in these proceedings is that in these cases and further communication between the parties takes place by electronic means of communication, which significantly speeds up the appeal procedure, so the average time limit in these cases is further reduced to 25 days, on average, since the submission of the orderly appeal. The decisions of the State Commission may be challenged before the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia during 2019 against 10% of the decisions of the State Commission, of which the Court of Justice confirmed the decisions of the State Commission in 83% of cases, in a number of cases, the cases were dismissed, in a number of cases the disputes were suspended, resulting in the fact that of all decisions taken by the State Commission during 2019, less than 3% of decisions were annulled by the High Administrative Court, leading to a high level of legal certainty and legal certainty in public procurement procedures. As I have pointed out, the component of the report is in line with the law and the assessment of the situation in legal protection and the assessment of the state of supply in general. In this section concerning the public procurement assessment, the State Commission stressed in its report the need for further development of the public procurement system in two directions. In the direction of strengthening the phase of preparation and planning of public procurement procedures, as well as strengthening public procurement policy administrations, now the Department of Trade and Public Procurement at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, in particular in two aspects of their competence towards the implementation of administrative supervision and public procurement education systems. In our opinion, it is precisely the further systematic and quality-designed education of all stakeholders of the system, as well as the strengthening of control over the conduct of those proceedings in which no appeal has been made, that may act in a stimulating manner to reduce corruption risks and to introduce controls in those proceedings which are not covered by the jurisdiction or the conduct of the State Commission. As for the assessment of the situation in legal protection, the State Commission has pointed to several elements, as I have already mentioned. It is therefore proposed to consider, in order to further speed up the process and additional savings, the possibility of making an appeal in the procurement procedures by electronic means as an obligation rather than as an option for the complainants. Also during 2019, there was an increase in the number of procurement complaints made immediately before the opening of bids, with certain indicators detailed in the report indicating the possibility that certain economic operators would already be able to use the instrument of legal protection to achieve some other objectives in relation to the procurement process in a certain number of cases. As regards the financial indicators of the State Commission, they are detailed in the report, what needs to be pointed out is the circumstance that in 2019, with the basis of the compensation for the initiation of the appeal procedure in the state budget, more than €17 million was paid, representing an increase of 15%, almost 15% compared to the same data in 2018, but it should also be noted that this amount was paid to the state budget from the basis of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure is almost €7 million greater than the funds planned for the work of the State Commission for the same year. Although the most powerful anti-corruption impact of the work of the State Commission is just public publication of the decisions of the State Commission in full, during 2019, the State Commission continued its work on further engagement in this area through participation in the Action Plan for 2019 and 2020 with the Anti-corruption Strategy and continued cooperation and communication with competent authorities in order to detect criminal offences in the area of public procurement. During 2019, the State Commission continued its work to strengthen cooperation with comparative bodies in other Member States, which contributed significantly to the participation of the expert group in the network of public procurement audit bodies at EU level. The State Commission, as a member of that network, has been very active in its work since its draft, and the results of the State Commission have been highly ranked in relation to other Member States, in particular due to the circumstances of high labour transparency, the number of appeals pending before it as well as the final and average period of settlement of cases that are among the shortest in the EU. With regard to the State Commission itself, it should be pointed out that the basis for the effectiveness of work is, among other things, the continuity of human resources in high complexity professional affairs, which enables the development of expertise and knowledge, which further leads to the reduction of decision-making deadlines for greater efficiency and quality of decisions in the final. The State Commission, as a quasi judicial authority and public procurement authority, is the creator of legal practice and has a significant impact on the implementation of procurement procedures, not only directly by making decisions but also indirectly in such a way that its decisions constitute a source of knowledge on the conduct of public procurement procedures to which all participants are relying. The register of appeal cases of the decision of the State Commission and the conclusions of the session on legal considerations shall be made public in real time on the pages of the State Commission, leading to predictability of legal protection and greater availability of the work of the institutions. All of these actually contributes to legal certainty, transparency in public procurement procedures and the development and improvement of the entire public procurement system. In that sense, in the wake of all this, I urge you to support the State Commission's work report for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45789	Thank you very much. I must apologize first to the respected lady. Maji Kuhar, I misread her, she is the President of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures And I ask that he remain here because almost everyone present has reported for the discussion, i.e. for the replicas, so the first one will speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please. [[Intruder Chef: Apology accepted.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45790	Good afternoon, thank you for your report. The report is quite detailed, and it also points to some trends and what our citizens would be most interested in, which subjects are seriously wrong, that is, how much did they pay for that pension because it's about state bodies and that it comes from the pockets of our citizens? I'll be very specific. So, we see that pioneers are in the process of public procurement, which is the most wrong of expected HEP, and then the City of Zagreb. Do you know whether or not you can next time in the report if you do not have the information on how many amounts of public procurement were involved and how much they ended up since these complaints had to be paid to the complainants for errors in the procurement process. I believe these are data that would be very interesting to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45791	The President-in-Office of the State Commission's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45792	Thank you very much for asking. So what I would definitely point out is the component of the report is the data on, so about those contracting entities that have somehow the largest number of complaints. The report also contains the information prescribed by law. There's a lot of things that are, that appear to be interesting when you analyze these data and when we start doing a report, it might have 1,000 pages if we wanted to cover everything that's so interesting. You can ask for that information at any time, and we'll ask the Ministry for it and we can deliver that information. What I would like to take into account in that table you have probably seen in the report is analysed and the data are analysed on the number of complaints made and ultimately on the results of this appeal procedure. What should also be kept in mind is the number of procedures that otherwise publish those bodies. So both HEP and the City of Zagreb and these great orderlies have large number of procedures they publish means daily. Just to take that also into account, that's something that's important because statistics can be tricky in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45793	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Spijic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45794	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Chef, I'm curious if you've exercised public procurement control when it comes to digitization in HZZ regarding this latest competition?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45795	The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45796	Yeah, it's really hard for me to think this way, so that's a terrible amount of procedure. So in 2019, the relationship, in 2019, was solved 1209 cases, it's very difficult for me to remember what procedure you're thinking about and what it's about. Our site is very well made and can be searched absolutely for any complaint that has been made. You can go to our site, I would do it now if I were behind the computer so I would check you out this information, you can go to our site to look, search by order, by complainers, by case of purchase, and you can see the information about whether the complaint has been made, and finally if the case is decided, you can see the decision in full. So at this point, I can't give you that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45797	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45798	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Presidents in your presentation, you said, mentioned among other things, the items relating to the control of the EU-funded procurement process. They are of great importance to us. We know that now of the EUR 10.7 billion that we have at our disposal is currently agreed on over 12 billion, do you have any recommendations, a request to this very high home that the law and in which part should be amended in order to make as few errors as possible on such cases, so that you can solve such items as quickly as possible and so that you can withdraw as much funds as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45799	The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45800	Thank you very much for asking. This is one complex question and it is not, it would not be the key to the amendment of the law, the key to our solution would be in systematic education and systematic approach to the education of human beings who carry out the procurement processes themselves. All of you who are involved in some way and in the implementation of these procedures financed from funds know very well who are generally users of these funds. Most of it is small municipalities and cities that, along with all the jobs that are very difficult to carry out quality and good, carry out procurement procedures without any mistakes that will certainly not lead to any financial corrections. It would be very difficult for me to say that we can change something in the regulations so that we can influence it. So systematic, systematic education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45801	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45802	Dear President, I see that you have come with your associates to enjoy the positive reviews you will receive for your 2019 report, and I am pleased to say this in advance before their presentations. What I'd like to ask you, given that I've already spoken to the board before when we talked about the State Public Procurement Commission, when we talked about legal changes that we should change something in the Public Procurement Act. In particular, I have particularly apostropheed this section regarding the preparation of the documentation. That's what you mentioned earlier, and we can see that's what your report says. Please, your position, your thinking, could we settle this in a way that we have another service in the state commission that would be involved in the work of control and documentation, given that you have 30 and some employees, and you have 48 people who are actually on the list so that they can be employed, could we then and there do one service that Would you control it instead of starting a new service? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45803	The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45804	Thank you, Your Honor, I've come to understand what the idea is. We also talked to the board about it at the end of the line. In my opinion, I'm not sure it's the right thing to do within the state commission. So I'm not sure whether this would be in line with a directive on legal protection that speaks of an independent independent body, independent of the contracting authority that decides on the legality of a procedure. So the question is, would that then be, that would be control over ourselves, that's something that's really questionable, but that's what I leave to the ministry that's competent to actually decide about the system and the whole, whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45805	The Republic has a respected representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45806	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The President-in-Office of the State Commission will agree that we have a comprehensive but very transparent report on all legal and European principles. In addition to this report, the overall section of action, i.e. the decisions of the State Commission, is also on your website, which certainly contributes to transparency and educational action for all interested parties. What is very important is to emphasise here and to commend that such an approach contributes to significant financial savings in the work of the State Commission, especially when it is borne in mind that several parties participate in a particular procedure where a decision is to be delivered on equal terms. And it's certainly here to praise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45807	The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45808	Thank you very much. I have nothing else to say, what is actually much more important to us, in terms of public announcement decisions is the fact that in this way you cannot avoid any procedural abuses such as avoiding delivery and so on. and we would be pleased to link it to what I said earlier, to introduce an obligation to make an electronic complaint so that all other communication other than that delivery of the State Commission's decision would ultimately be carried out by electronic means, which I think would further shorten, here, the resolution in these appeal cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45809	Dear representative Boric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45810	Dear President, do you have any information or information on the number of public procurements in which there was only one bidder? You were talking about corruption risks, colleague Selak Rasdić talked about it, and we know from one survey that the city of Zagreb is because only one bidder has lost 2 billion kuna. So the question is whether and how can we get the data, we know that the State Commission, of course, only in appeal procedures, those who have complained, but if you have one bidder, then there is no complainant. What can be improved about the competition itself? Do you have any information about these over 11 grand, as far as it was, so it could also be done electronically so that citizens can know how many there were only one, where there was only one offer in public procurement because it was the greatest corruption risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45811	The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45812	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Boric. Yes, we unfortunately don't have this data, from what we do, in the part that we control. So, the electronic public procurement advertiser is a transparent tool and in it is the answer to these questions and can be given, can be found, with that requires a lot of, a lot of work and reviewing a lot, a lot, a lot of documents. So here's the part, so we don't have that data. So the statistical reports that the Ministry of Economy publishes, I'm allowing that they may contain that information, at this point, I'm not sure, I wouldn't want to tell you something that isn't true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45813	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45814	Respect. So I'm interested in EU funds. So public procurement irregularities. In particular, we have this line called Long Village-Krysevci, worth 1.3 billion, I think that's the problem with selecting performers, and there's a court decision waiting, and eventually the entire funding could fall at the expense of the state budget. And also, do you know anything about irregularities related to Dubrovnik Airport regarding public procurement procedures? So there are adjustments, I think about 100 million kunas, I don't know if there were any problems with public procurement?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45815	The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45816	Here, thank you for asking. As I have said to an esteemed representative before, it is very difficult for me to talk this way about specific items, especially those which seem to me to be slightly older items since 2019. So what's the fact about Dubrovnik Airport, if you mentioned that some financial corrections have been established, that's something that we don't get any specific information after that, means at the moment when the appeal procedure is over, we don't participate in that part anymore, so I'm having a hard time commenting now whether this was the case or not meant the appeal procedure with us. I guess that's why you're telling me because you know that, at this point, it's hard for me to say something in my head about a specific object. The same situation is with this other subject, it seems to me that it's even a slightly older subject, so if you want, you can address us with some specific questions about what we have information about, but this way is very difficult to tell you something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45817	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to ask if I'd like to take your word for it. No, so I'm opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45818	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable presidents with associates, state secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This Annual report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures for 2019 will support the HDZ Club. In the opening statement, we have already heard a lot about financial indicators, the number of complaints made, the statistics, and in that part I would not repeat the data, but would refer to one significant fact, which is the creation of legal practice in this area. Namely, the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure through the regular conduct of its business by making decisions in appeal procedures and by fully publishing on its website creating legal practice. In the public procurement system and its decisions, they constitute a source of knowledge in the conduct of the process on which the contracting authorities are also relying, as well as the tenderers, in all future public procurement procedures in which they participate. We have just heard that some colleagues have asked about specific items, indeed on the pages can be entered into any subject, see the decision and sure that any orders from the bidder or the client can have insight into how the State Commission has done so and for what reason it has solved it. Although today we are discussing the 2019 Report, I am particularly pleased with the reason for the increase in EU-funded projects, that the State Commission is extremely quick and quality in such cases and that we have a shorter time-limit for resolving them. In fact, we know that out of the 10.7 billion euros available, we already have over 12 billion and these are extremely significant funds. With Croatia's entry into the EU, the funds have increased. Of course, we lacked knowledge and experience, and all these items have very extensive documentation, they're bound by deadlines and what's worse, there's a possibility that because of some lack, or deficiency in the process, we should either return funds or at least pay for the penalty. In fact, it is often ignored when it comes to the work of the State Commission, its role in projects financed by EU funds. By handling complaints in such projects, the State Commission corrects the errors of the contracting authorities and the observed irregularities and thus prevents the possibility of giving so-called. financial corrections, i.e. faults in the implementation of procurement projects financed from eu funds. In this way, additional extremely high costs are prevented for the budgets of clients of financial corrections that can sometimes reach up to 100% of the project value. It is also extremely important to note in the State Commission's report and further shortening the average time of the settlement of items relating to funding from eu funds. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. By shortening the resolution deadline in these cases, it contributes to a total reduction in the duration of the procurement procedure, thereby contributing to the increased use of funds from eu funds in which the settlement within a certain timeframe is actually a prerequisite for the withdrawal of funds. In order to prevent financial corrections, it is necessary to add to the education of all bodies, we have heard this from the presentation of the President, for all those participating in the withdrawal of funds, in order not to negatively affect budgetary resources even errors in the implementation of the procurement process. It is also interesting that it is in 2019. The State Commission has decided on 1209 complaints that only 6.59% of the total number of public procurement procedures published in the e-procurement notice should be considered in this respect, so that we should consider, in this context, the need to strengthen the capacity of the authorities responsible for monitoring these procurement procedures in which complaints have not been made, through administrative supervision of the application of the law. We have just heard from some colleagues that they are precisely calling certain institutions that they have had the largest number of complaints, but if we look at how much this is compared to the total purchase that a certain institution has, surely that one small municipality that may have had about a dozen purchases in the course of the year then there are also two, three purchases that have to come to control, at the State Commission to control the procurement process much compared to one HEP or City of Zagreb. I don't justify them, but I noticed that number too, so then I went a little bit more into getting these institutions. It is also interesting to note that only one complaint of 1209 declared during 2019. the following points are inserted after point (a) of the first subparagraph of point (b) of the first subparagraph of point (b) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013: It would be interesting to hear entrepreneurs of potential bidders on what are the real reasons that so few complaints refer to the circumstances relating to illegal changes to the public procurement contract at the stage of its execution and see what we can all do together to ensure that the supervision of this process is strengthened in the future in order to ensure the control of legality in this part as well. I suppose that both contracting authorities and tenderers with the contract will sooner address the court and initiate some court proceedings than they may address the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure, although the case will be incomparably resolved, so here may be an appeal from this pay phone that in such problems can also be addressed to the State Commission for the control of the procurement procedure. And here I would like to point out once again that the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedure is an independent, independent body responsible for resolving complaints about procedures and public procurement, but also for giving concessions and procedures for selecting a private partner in public-private partnership projects. These procedures and concessions of the private partnership are less and less talked about and there are fewer such procedures, but here is the task for all of us that this State Commission based on the European concept as quasi, the judicial state body gives them the support to be even stronger. All praises for their work, and here is the desire for these European projects to be tackled in particular and for this deadline to be as short as possible, and of course for the work to be done as high-quality as possible. The HDZ Club will support this annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45819	The next club of representatives will be the Mosta in the name of the respected representative Marija Selak Raspoudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45820	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs. The report is well written and I think it's rare in HS that we have a chance to follow up on such reports. What I want to praise in this report is that it fulfils its function. So the basic function of the report is that we get recommendations that based on the situation we can do if we need to change the legislative framework. The reports are not there to just find out what's going on on the ground, but to see shortcomings in public procurement in this case, so that we can adapt the legislative framework to the needs of the state commission. In this regard, at the end of this report, we can find concrete recommendations that are partly related to the work of the Parliament, so I believe that the report has been made in quality. However, of course that there are possible and certain improvements in the report that would contribute to the atmosphere of transparency in the control of the procurement process and in this respect have been of great benefit to our citizens. On that trail of improvement can be found precisely in this statistic that can certainly be extensive. However, given all public procurement procedures conducted in Croatia, it can also be more precise. So, I will now try to offer a partial interpretation of this statistics which we have obtained on the basis of recommendations of what we can more clearly determine in order to see what is really happening with Croatia in public procurement procedures. Introductoryly, it is also necessary to note that the public procurement process in Croatia has improved, i.e. that it has gained green status, which means that there are some improvements to what is really being obtained in Croatia. But he is also, despite this improvement right now, in greater danger than ever. Why? Because what is found not only in Croatia but also at EU level is the biggest corruption in public procurement procedures, which is exactly the area of health, we skipped public procurement. Namely, the government's decision was suspended in March last year due to allegations of security interests by the Republic of Croatia. We tried to amend that decision, or we asked that it be revised or at least partially modified for certain public procurement in those stages of things that are not currently questionable or that there is enough on the market, given that this crisis is already taking place and that they can be obtained through public procurement, but the hearing from the ruling was not. So, as for public procurement and the statistics available here, on what I said, we need to point out that when we talk about those bodies that have more than 5 complainants that almost a quarter of them are in the field of health care, so a large number of our hospitals are under quotes champions of non-transparent and failed public procurement procedures. In that sense, of particular importance... just getting medical equipment that's in progress today and her transparency. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, we don't know what's going on with the supply of medical equipment, but we do know that even when she was going through a public procurement procedure that our healthcare facilities are one of the most invaluable public procurement procedures. Another problem that I find important is the fact that the Central State Public Procurement Office, so one state body whose basic function is precisely public procurement is one of those who also falls on a public procurement test. They have 30% of the procedures under the control of the state commission due to the number of complaints, which is a very large number and 30% of complaints adopted, which is also a large number. Yes, the figures are and are not relative. These figures in the way I interpret them here are not relative. On the one hand we spoke, I mentioned Happy City of Zagreb here as those with the highest number of complaints. Yeah, they have a lot of procedures. But if we are talking about the largest number of complaints adopted, then we should know that in view of the large number of procedures and the large number of complaints adopted, we again have the largest number of funds that must have been paid to those complainants. In this sense, the fundamental improvement that this document could bring in terms of what is important for Croatian citizens and HS is to see how many authorities of the state administration and which, therefore, one blacklist had to pay the complainants the most for a non-quality public procurement procedure, whether the biggest problem, the selection of the wrong bidder, was non-transparent documentation. So we need that blacklist. The money paid to the mourners went straight out of our pocket, the mistakes cost, the mistakes in public procurement cost money. These aren't some mistakes that will only lead you to repeat the procedure, but you'll pay for the penalty. Another problem, so we want a blacklist, not to be searched, but it would be useful if the commission could offer us a blacklist of those who have sucked the most money out of the state budget to cover their mistakes. Then on that basis, we can ask the government to see what sanctions were imposed on officials who did not know how to make quality public procurement procedures. Secondly, when we talk about funds withdrawn from the EU funds, it says here that it is 11% of the procedures that have been controlled there and in that sense it is not a large number. However, if we have in mind that we are now going to attract huge or we should, the huge funds from the EU precisely because of this recovery and recovery mechanism, then that number in particular is much higher than they seem here when we talk about 11%. That is why it should also be transparently visible that the government authorities are most wrong at taking funds from the EU or non-transparent public procurement, because it costs us even more than it costs us to make mistakes in our public procurement system if we do not carry out the procedure as it belongs. Therefore, the EU has prescribed extremely strict sanctions for all those who will at least make mistakes in public procurement regarding the funds to be withdrawn from the EU. So we'll pay more than twice as much if we don't make a good public procurement. So we should know right now who's not doing his job right. So on the one hand, public procurement and the coronary crisis. What's going on with the medical equipment? A quarter of those who have more than 5 complainants are just connected to the medical system. Secondly, the EU, which is the most wrong in public procurement, with regard to EU funds. Third, professional mourners, who are these professional mourners? Only 13.9% of those who appear 4 days before and less to warn about the lack of public procurement procedures, their complaints are accepted in relation to almost 50% of those who do so on time, so someone is destroying the proceedings, should know who. And that would be useful in the report, not to search. I will now conclude with one concrete example which is the problem of public procurement in Croatia. In 2018 a project was signed for further optimisation and decentralisation of units of local and regional self-government through support for functional merger. So it was one prerequisite that we could even talk about reforming local and regional self-government. All this was to be completed by the end of 2020, nothing was done. The first and basic project to create a central analytical base, for optimising local and regional self-government, was carried out by a public procurement process and the procedure was brought down and the country was to pay the complainant 45 000 kuna. Do you know which one is the epilogue? The epilogue is that no one is sanctioned and I will remind them that the growth and wages during the implementation of the EU project can grow up to 30%. Someone didn't even know how to make the first public procurement procedure the way we should have paid 45 000 kuna out of our pocket. What's the epilogue? The epilogue is that this genius project has ended as one of our feathers in this recovery and resilience mechanism that we are re-applying to the EU. It's an epilogue. So those who have not been able to do their job as they belong will continue to receive a higher salary for the re-unworking of the job as it belongs. That's why we need a blacklist of those who don't conduct public procurement procedures as we should.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45821	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Daniel Spajic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45822	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Today we have a report on the work of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, a country that shares 63rd place with Belarus and Cuba in the corruption perception index. However, when a person begins to read the document, it feels as if he is reading a report from Denmark or Finland, for example. in this document, you will find incredible statements that this body is independent and independent, established in accordance with the principles of protection of competition and effective spending of public funds. like a non-salt joke sounds like a promotional word as to how the fundamental goal of this body is to ensure, watch this, transparency, efficiency, independence. In its own words, this institution has a high reputation in the Croatian general and professional public as well as in the European Commission's institutions and, above all, in terms of efficiency and legal consistency and without any arguments, there are claims that the European Commission highly ranks the effects of the legal protection of the public procurement process in the Republic of Croatia. The report is signed by the President of the Commission, May Chef, the person who made the trade in Milanovic's government, as a counselor if I'm not mistaken, Mrs. Milanke Opačić. Which has been a token for years and supported the government in the past term by Mr. Plenkovic. And he's always surprised by the connection between all these people who, as leeches, suck up our public funds that fill taxpayers. The key problem of this commission is that in its name it is misrepresented, it does not deal with the control of public procurement procedures but is a body that only solves complaints in public procurement procedures. Many public procurement procedures that are clearly corrupt, such as a set of public procurement procedures for the digitisation of health and which no one has complained about, have not come to the radar of this commission so that billions of public money has leaked through procedures that no one has complained about. In the vast majority of cases, public procurement providers with actors make a gentleman's agreement, so that a compromise solution is found, "I to you here, you to me there", "wolve sieve, sheep in number", so that no one complains about the great majority of the proceedings. The report shows that only 1094 of 13 190 proceedings were initiated in only 6.6% of cases. Given the fact that the share of public procurement in the last 3 years has jumped from 13% of GDP to 16% of GDP and due to the decline of GDP, the public sector's impact on that part has increased, the share will continue to grow. The Republic of Croatia is one of the most corrupt countries not only in the EU, but worldwide. It wouldn't be possible if we had arranged public procurement processes. Tens of billions of kuna spent from the EU are around 15 billion kunas distributed annually to boost the economy, have not stimulated the development of the economy and address structural problems. The domestic movement is a position that instead of the bodies that are passively handling complaints about public procurement procedures, Croatia needs an independent and independent professional body that will act proactively. To begin with, this body must make a detailed and impartial analysis of the current problems in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act and take concrete measures to really combat corruption and maximise the impact of public procurement on overall economic development. In the latest strategic documents, the government has set itself the goal of completing the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy by 2030, so another 9 years is necessary to address the key cause of most of our society's problems. If such a deadline is really allowed to the government, it is clear that these 24 billion euros from the EU funds will end for the next seven years. The country movement will not support this report because this was made a mess and public procurement in Croatia is a cancer of the early Croatian society. All money in Croatia is stolen through public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45823	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45824	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the State Commission with my associates, I've already found that you've come here with a number of associates actually enjoying positive grades, and now we've heard little and different grades, but there's good reason for that. I am pleased to conclude that the report on the work of the State Commission for 2019 related to the members of the State Commission in the sense that they have the status of state officials only in terms of the rules governing the prevention of conflicts of interest but not according to the list which regulates the obligations and rights of state officials will no longer be seen in your reports or reports of your body thanks to changes and additions to the law on the state commission that we recently adopted and I think it will help you greatly in your work at the end and in the part we discussed, in the part of preventing corruption. The data referred to in the report on the financial operations of the State Commission indicate that less funds were allocated to the work of the State Commission in 2019 than was planned in the budget. It is also evident that the Commission has made more revenue for its work in the budget than it has spent on its work, and it has been revenueing more than planned revenue, which on the one hand is good because more resources have entered the state budget, and on the other hand it has pointed to the fact that in 2019 more public procurement procedures have been implemented in a way that is not in line with the positive legal rules and that there have been more complaints than expected and planned. If we ask ourselves whether this increase is alarming compared to the number of procedures carried out, when compared to previous periods, we can say with satisfaction that this is not so and that, in fact, compared to the number of public procurement procedures published in 2019, there were 13,190 for public procurement and 338 for concessions of the percentage of public procurement procedures and concessions to which complaints were made less than in the previous year and that it was actually a reduction of 1,83% compared to the number of procedures published. If we look at separate procurement and concessions, then we see that the percentage of complaints made compared to the previous period fell by 0.49% for public procurement and that by 1.38% it fell for concessions. This is part of the encouraging data, since it can nevertheless be read that public procurement participants also see minor irregularities in the public procurement system compared to the previous period. However, given the increased number of public procurement procedures compared to the previous period, this reduction in the percentages of complaints made on public procurement procedures did not also result in a reduction in the number of proceedings compared to the number of proceedings in the previous period indicating that the Commission had to resolve a number of cases compared to the number of cases which were resolved in the previous years. The increase in the absolute number of complaints made in public procurement proceedings since 2017, when they were 945 in 2018, has been evident. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1.209. We can also conclude that the trend of the decline of complaints made on public procurement procedures that was present from 2014 to 2017 has been interrupted. I don't have any information or information about what happened, I tried to find out if there were any legal changes to any additions that could affect it, I didn't, I didn't find it, I didn't find it, I don't know what the reasons for increasing the complaints made on the procurement procedures. If there have been any changes to the regulation, I would ask you afterwards, perhaps in the final word, to tell us if there were any changes in 2017 that resulted in an increased number of complaints actually taking place on the documents submitted for public procurement. I think it would be appropriate to make an analysis and react in a direction that will result in a reduction of the complaints made to public procurement procedures, I mean a reduction in absolute amounts and a continuation of the trend in percentages compared to the number of public procurement procedures published. Since in the discussions we had at this high school when we discussed amendments and amendments to the law on the state commission, I warned of possible failures in the procedures for preparing competitions and tender documentation, and finally I asked the question, I will also refer to the fact that the number of complaints made to the procurement procedure is also related to the tender documentation although we have already discussed it remains quite large. However, since I have to point out, even though this has nothing to do with the State Commission at the moment, we believe that in public procurement procedures, additional control procedures should be carried out, in particular during the stage of the preparation of the tendering, the control of the tendering documentation and the control of the need to obtain certain items of procurement. And now we're witnessing a questionnaire above the head of the finance minister who asked himself how it's possible that debts to wholesales have increased, and at the same time we've had Covid a year and reduced number of hospital procedures, a reduced number of patients in hospitals, and the purchase of drugs has continued to grow and the costs have even come to about 10 billion kuna, which is actually our alarming state. We believe that after so many years as public procurement is present in our country, we should also start to take care of activities within public procurement that have not been controlled by authorised bodies so far because we believe that the effects of public procurement would be increased and the costs related to the purchase of goods and services through public procurement would be reduced. The burden of the state commission and their members must not be ignored, in particular, taking into account that cases which have been taken into account are resolved within the legal time limits, which is particularly important for the contracting authorities. I think it says in there that no object has been exceeded that 30-day deadline in your report. The need to control procedures not only for public procurement but for the procurement of goods and services by legal persons, public procurement obligations generally indicate data on purchases recently published in public newspapers. In fact, we heard that the information system on the portal vaccines is health.hr paid 4 and a half million kunas, our kunas that we singled out through pay, pay, VAT, through parafiscal charges and donations that have been imposed on us. If we had the right supply controls, we could no longer have a software solution that, by complexity, is something simpler than the lab exercises of students of the 2nd year of computerism on FER or TVZ or IT students at FOI, and technology at the level used by high school students, we follow 50 times more expensive than necessary, so I ask the prime minister how can such an embarrassment and shameful acquisition be made by the center... services and the Central Office for the Development of Digital Society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, the President of the Commission, as far as the SDP Club is concerned, for your work and for your 2019 report, a clean five, and for the Prime Minister, the Government and all irresponsible officials who are untransparently spending the money of this troubled people's messages, gentlemen, sit down, one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45825	The next club of MPs will be the green-left bloc, and time will be shared by the respected representative Glavasevic and respected representative Boris. First of all, the respected representative Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45826	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the State Public Procurement Commission report that I have ahead of me is a technical report that predominates data on the work of the State Commission, but not on the effects. The least information we have received is in Chapter 1.4 which speaks about the anti-corruption action of the State Commission. I don't have any conclusions, described activities, the effects of anti-corruption action or recommendations. In that section of the report is the following. The State Commission is an active participant in the development of the Corruption Prevention Strategy and is the holder of activities in the 2019 and 2020 Action Plan with the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period 2015-2020, which includes the detection of corruption risks. That's the end of the quote. However, the report itself does not further state what activities the Commission has taken to detect corruption risks and what their findings are. According to us, one of the tasks of this body should be constant monitoring of key corrupt risks through a large given analysis. The detection and analysis of those purchases in which we have one or a small number of bidders, the monitoring of the price declines in public procurement compared to the number of bidders, since, for example, more bidders usually lead to higher price declines, analysis and reporting of learned columns, agreements by companies to represent false competition in the competition and distribution of prey, under quotes, later through longer-term contracts. We also don't have any data on the concentration of certain transactions with one supplier. It would be interesting to see which companies received the largest number of jobs in a particular type of procurement and whether it also maintains a real market situation, i.e. whether there are really no other bidders and etc. or it's a potential corrupt risk. Here's a few examples. In 2016, in cooperation with the Budapest Anti-Corruption Institute, the Centre for Peace Studies conducted an analysis of corrupt risks in the public procurement of the city of Zagreb, using the EU Commission methodology that showed that 25% of all purchases were actually non-competitive, i.e. those with only one bidder. In particular, it was visible in the acquisition of IT equipment and software, where one company, I think we all know that within one year we received 12 out of 16 competitions and all 12 were the only bidders. Of course, the drop in price compared to the estimated value of the purchase was no or negligible. The estimated loss for the public budget in the 5 years analysed public procurement of the city of Zagreb, due only to lack of competence, was at 2 billion and 300 million kuna levels. Just imagine how many amounts can only be handled at national level. We are interested in the amount of money at national level that is contracted without competition, i.e. with only one bidder. We are also interested in what types of work, or service, is particularly common. We are also interested in which companies are the ones most often awarded in such competitions. In fact, we have not learned from this report what legislative changes we need to make and to reduce these corrupt risks. We are also interested in why, if there is already a public supply base, there is no software solution that follows and in real time publishes data on the number of offers and price drops, i.e. fall prices due to competition. According to some data from the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, labour and services prices have increased to 6 times, instead of being reduced, and we must then ask ourselves whether such a legislative framework is really something that contributes to the efficiency of public spending. In the section dealing with recommendations to improve the legislative framework, the State Commission points out the need for legal amendments to allow contracting authorities not to stop the procurement process, i.e. not to delay the public opening of tenders, in the event that the complaint has been made, it is obviously unfair. This would prevent part of the abuse of the right to appeal. That is one concrete recommendation to us legislators, which I think we should certainly respect. Now I'm going to leave my word to my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45827	Here's the esteemed representative, Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45828	Mr. Chairman, one more time, ma'am. Presidents with associates and associates. So here's why I asked in the opening, you heard from my colleague Tomasevic, if we know the number of bidders, so where is one bidder in the tenders, and of course, then there's no appeal procedure and then we don't know which are the corrupt risks, and yet, we know, I'll just add the data, so if a civilian association together with an outside independent body has been able to go through, review 5,922 contracts of the city of Zagreb, from 4,483 public procurements from the City of Zagreb and Holding, and see, therefore, that big date analysis or a big date, and see what the loss for the City of Zagreb for the built city of Zagreb is, then the question is what is being syntically done between the body because when it comes to the state commission, only the complainants come to the state commission, and then there are the complainants who are still making it difficult. What we see every day and examples we can give you as many as you want, what happens in the previous part. Where's the synergy, where's the kind of reform? We know that the Central Public Procurement Office has a role here and that should be its role, so here we often complain that we are not constructive, so here's a constructive proposal. Why are standard prices not published for certain types of goods, services and works in order to make the estimated purchases and costs more realistic and less bloated, and that would also benefit the state commission itself because it would look at whether something was based on something previously done as a condition? Our question is, when it's really about reforms, and look at what we're doing in the Parliament, we're talking about the '19 report, it's half of '20, we're talking about after, and that's not the first time after we've done one piece to secure a better position for people in the state commission. So we haven't even been able to talk about each other in one day and see why their position is the way it is and why it should be promoted, and it's not the first time. We've already chosen the attorney general here, and the reports haven't come. This is Parliament's responsibility, so how synergy we don't do things then let's not be surprised that in the system we're only talking about appeal procedures now. Here's an example of a few days ago, so from a few days ago, we were talking about this here's what it looks like. What the City of Zagreb is doing about getting a car and so make the tender then cancel the competition, then report again to the same competition, and then adjust exactly to be to the scale of the vehicle. Sometimes it seems that the competition only lacks the color of the eyes, for example. have those who conduct some shops. How are we gonna stop that? What corrupt risks do post-festum tell me when appeal procedures occur? What can we do to improve that question? So in the tenders, in the tender documentation, how do you plan to protect the competition if we only have one bidder? People give up the competition because they know that in public procurement, that's who gets the public procurement of IT technology or who gets the purchase in the city of the vehicle and the daily rental. We need to stop this if we really don't want to be on the most corrupt list again. And the state commission certainly has a function here, but unfortunately it has a very late function.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45829	Thank you. Before we move on to individual debates, I would just like to draw everyone's attention that, according to the usual practice after the end of this point, we will move on to a statement by clubs and independent representatives, so here I'm just drawing attention to you that if someone has to in that free speech so-called. Something to think about or tell your colleagues who aren't here, and unfortunately most of them aren't here, so I needed to remind you of that. Here we will now go to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Raspoudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45830	I will continue here where my colleague, Boric, has stopped because the issue of public procurement is very complex, and it cannot be understood only that our problem is one bidder. That's one of our problems. But what happens often isn't, say, the ideal situation that we have in mind, which is that we have better conditions, to wait for a large number of economic operators who would like to apply to this same competition. So, I'm afraid that, in this sense, the problem has happened much earlier, that at the level of cartel bargaining, especially among those large entities that can meet the conditions prescribed by the competition, determines who is competing, and then in direct agreement with the state. It is not to believe that there is not enough number of people to apply and that they are only missing more specific or less specific to be precise, the conditions of the competition. The other problem that is happening is also the fact that not everyone is able to meet at all the conditions that are being placed in competitions because we do not have a sufficiently developed structure of companies. This is what I'm saying at the level of major procurement, where it's about serious money and those purchases that actually cost us the most. As far as smaller purchases are concerned, there is indeed a problem with such specific competitions that no one can satisfy them. Let's just say when we talk about major acquisitions, I'll be very specific about the "Gooda Gate" affair, the answer to the ruling structure in this affair was that there was no talk of anything more problematic because they were getting tickets that really cost, the Gouda 80 kunas per kilogram, because there was more important for us to get a much more expensive, three times more expensive ballots than it would be a kilo of regular cheese. All right, we can accept that kind of need. However, it was also pointed out that the same bidder was chosen while the procedure went through public procurement before this crisis. That was right. But there was only one bidder. So, we had this question of one, and nobody else did, as it is possible, really have a large number of cheeses in Croatia and those dealing with, at least a few, at a higher level of milk processing and dairy production, and that nobody was interested in getting such a job from the state. Therefore, what is stated in this document as an argument that the appeal procedure shows that the contracting authorities have not carried out quality market research, leading to the lack of technical specifications, conditions for the execution of the contract and a unclear definition of the procurement documents. I don't know, it seems like a certain euphemism. I doubt that someone has done market research or that they do not know what needs to be obtained and what is the best price or the best quality offer on the market. Rather, it will be used as a euphemism to ignore what the market is telling us in favour of adapting tenders to specific bidders with whom some incorrect agreement or unfair agreement has been previously concluded. So, when I said we needed a blacklist, I could only say something based on this data that should be processed differently in a way that we could see how much it would cost us, or how badly it would be implemented, so we pay out of the state budget because of mistakes that shouldn't have happened and why no one was retired, there's still something to be said. Those most controlled in the process were the Central State Public Procurement Office, Osijek-Baranja County, Međimurje Voda, the Water Supply of Zagreb County and the Municipality of Podbablje, so they passed the highest percentage of control compared to the number of complaints. Above 70% of the complaints adopted are KBC Rijeka, HEP-Operator of the Distribution System, Osijek-Baranja County, Split City, Istrian Homes, KB Dubrava, General Hospital Zadar, Ministry of Administration, General Hospital Sisak, KBC Osijek, etc. This is the problem I pointed out, the problem of corruption in the acquisition of medical equipment that has been completely silenced in the Croatian public space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45831	We have two replicas, the first respected representative, Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45832	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you spoke of problems with complaints in health care institutions, and indeed, when you look at them, there are a series of KBCs, KBs, health homes. Fortunately in the total number of public procurement procedures is not a high percentage of those to whom the complaint has been translated, but when you look at these complaints, then it is quite a high percentage of those complaints that have been adopted. How do you think you can actually solve this problem? The fact is that public procurement staff should really be well educated, professional, with related certificates, with adequate knowledge, so that education should really be encouraged by healthcare institutions. I think maybe some kind of solution would be to encourage complaints about the procurement documentation, so that it can be corrected before the procurement process itself. And in the end, do you think maybe you should work on random control of public procurement procedures, even where a complaint is not made exactly with those who have a large number of complaints?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45833	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45834	We were able to go in the direction of what we did with the Competition Protection Agency to allow greater powers to the Commission not only to act on the complainant but also to intervene in some way, based on some indications, only then it should again be careful not to be malfeasance, pee on the system to see what was going on. As for what to improve, here's this example that I cited for optimizing the system that never happened, and there were errors. First, we need to identify those who are wrong because it is costing us, and the biggest problem in health care is also very expensive and public procurement, meaning identifying those who are wrong, and then seeing if it is his responsibility in terms of meeting such a type of failure or responsibility of the system in terms of insufficient education because it is not known to prepare the proper basic documentation and then it can only be handled and punished by an officer or make better education and punish management.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45835	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45836	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, in your presentation you spoke more about problems generally of public procurement procedures such as. that public competitions occur large ones who actually swallow small ones who have no conditions. So, I don't think that's the Commission's problem, it controls whether the public procurement procedures apply the law in the way that the whole procedure should be conducted and whether there's been a breach of the law. The law lays down conditions which are the reason for the complaint and at which stage of the procedure and only that can be controlled by the Commission. We need to determine that in fact the commission has done its job well or not, which is evident from the report that the percentage of complaints is smaller, means that people are more educated in public procurement procedures. And as for the markets that appear or do not appear in public procurement procedures as a contracting authority, therefore there are market rules and legality that we cannot influence through the procedure ourselves. As far as the client is concerned, they also have very educated people who participate in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45837	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45838	My colleague Jelkovac, I don't know if you've been listening to my presentation on behalf of the club. I have initially just praised the above-mentioned report because, in addition to these indicators, it has been given concrete recommendations, including at the level of the documentation needed, for example, evidence of citizenship making it difficult for public procurement procedures, which should then be amended in the Public Procurement Act. So I have not slowed the quality of the report, but I have also made concrete offers to improve that same report. Let's just say these numerical indicators that we have here aren't enough for us to fully understand what's missing from the public procurement process. What Croatian citizens are certainly most interested in is these concrete indicators of how much the authorities have paid, I have set an example here, 45 000 kn for this public budget optimization project because of their own mistakes, and then we see what the epilogue was like for these officials and how much further work should be done on education or some legal changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45839	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by respected representative Danica Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45840	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the appreciation of the president from the members of the State Commission, the Honorable Secretary of State, I welcome you all together. Here, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is a body, a state body performing a quasi-judgmental function, also deciding on public procurement procedures, concessions, public-private partnerships. By establishing the State Commission in 2003, the Republic of Croatia decided to model the administrative body as one of the two models of the audit body established by the Legal Protection Directive. This has indeed proved to be a good decision, which is evident from the work itself and the results of the State Commission, almost 18 years and the European Commission’s own evaluation, whose evaluation has shown that systems in which first-degree legal protection in public procurement procedures provide legal protection authorities instead of regular courts are mostly more effective with regard to the duration of the procedures and standards of decision-making. The State Commission is one of the smaller state authorities and currently only numbers 33 employees, which is extremely commendable is the continuity of staff staff, which means the accumulation of knowledge and high level of expertise in the field of its competence. The State Commission, despite the fact that not all jobs have been filled, the report shows that only 33 out of 48 places have been filled, indeed achieves excellent results in its work, which can be read from the very report that has been praised here. In the light of the importance of internal structure and human potential, the State Commission has established a professional service to monitor practices and conduct in judicial proceedings as a self-control mechanism or to coordinate its own practice. It is important to take into account the fact that the State Commission mainly decides on 3 different councils and uniform legal practice is an important element for public procurement participants and thus guarantees legal certainty and predictability of legal protection in public procurement. In addition to its basic function, the anti-corruption action of the State Commission, which is primarily carried out through the hasty and effective conduct of operations within the competence of this State Authority, is also observed. In particular, the control of public procurement procedures with the consequence of the annulment of those found to be contrary to the law prevents the conclusion of harmful public procurement contracts and, among other things, prevents the realization of potential corruptive behaviour while also accomplishing a preventive function that prevents illegal actions and damages. It is important to note that, in addition to this State Commission, it is taking steps to digitise public procurement in the EU, thus introducing an e-appeal in 2018, it has become one of the first audit bodies to which an e-appeal can be made. The introduction of an e-appeal is due to a significant reduction in the time-limits for the resolution of the appeal, so it is clear that the appeal procedures in which the e-appeal was made were significantly shorter. The State Commission's haste is also visible in its decision on complaints in public procurement procedures financed from EU funds. It is a reduction of a few days which may not seem much to be the first but should be taken into account how the State Commission on average makes a decision within 15 days of the date on which the complaint file is completed or contains all the necessary documentation for making its own decision, as well as for other characteristics and according to this State Commission is at the very top of the EU. So the State Commission to conclude, from year to year, in its reports informs representatives of the Croatian Parliament, informs us here today of the observed trends both positive and negative trends in the public procurement system, giving its proposals to improve the system, which is indeed an additional contribution to improving the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45841	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is that respected representative of Okrosha, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45842	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, the public of the work of the State Commission, transparency and public activity, except as provided by the legal provision by which decisions are made public, has been published on the website of the State Commission and thus ensures maximum transparency of the work of the State Commission. What I'm interested in is, do you know and have any information about how much it required was the right to access information?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45843	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45844	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for asking. Therefore, these networks have reduced the need for access to information and the report shows that only 12 requests for access to information have been received by the State Commission in 2019, a significant reduction compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45845	The next is the replica of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45846	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, here is a very good reading of all the data from the report and it is very clear that the report shows how the commission works transparently. However, I would also say that all of this contributes to the transparency of public contracting authorities that must be achieved in the procedures prescribed by the law itself, which is that these small procurement procedures must also bring about plans of public procurement procedures that must be made transparently available on the websites of public contracting authorities and therefore everything is available and subject to control. There's a revision that controls all these procedures every year. I wonder if you also think that the implementation of public procurement in electronic form has contributed to this transparency since we now know that a large part of the public procurement is now being carried out in an electronic way, which means that the arrival of offers in electronic form, but also the opening of public procurement process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45847	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45848	Here I thank the distinguished MPs, certainly and just before I said that the transparency of the work and the public of the work of the state commission itself is visible precisely from a small number of requests and access to information, and certainly that the publicly available site has strengthened both there and transparency. Everything is available on the web pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45849	The next replica of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45850	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Baricevic and you, like all of us, have been mostly talking about the core task of the state commission that decides in the appeal proceedings. However, for all of us who are very important in the withdrawal of European funds, it is very important to us what practice is in other Member States, so it should be said that there is a state commission and other activities relating to cooperation with other comparative bodies in the Member States, and exactly such cooperation, different meetings, the forums have resulted in a way that we have in some way a uniform solution to different problems and procedures and a call for as few such cases to be found in judicial proceedings, and that as much as possible on the state commission that solves this far faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45851	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45852	Just now, thanks to the well-respected MPs, you have just pointed out something that has not been said today, and the reports also show that this co-operation and networking of the state commission also encourages and improves the level of information and best practices related to certain aspects of action and network meetings held twice a year by the highest representatives of the audit bodies of the Member States and the EU and the discussions related to the application of the Directive and is trying to find the best solutions for issues and education. So it's very important to cooperate and networking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45853	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45854	Dear MPs, except that the report is good in this part that informed us about the work of the State Commission in 2019-that year on the results of the work and on the speed of the process resolution, it's good that we've actually received some suggestive information that I've talked about on our committees, if you remember, I hope you haven't been rolling your eyes like some, I hope you haven't, since I've always been boring because I've been repeating the same things that we should change something in the public procurement process because we have big problems here in fact. That's not the problem with this commission, but it's our problem because when I worked in one institution, we actually found that with better public procurement we can save up to 25% of our funds, 40 billion kuna in public procurement 25% that's big money. I would ask you for the information that your club's position on amending those laws is because we would suggest amendments but if you won't vote for it, these changes will not be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45855	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45856	Thank you very much for the question, dear colleague Željko Pavić, I did not roll my eyes because I never roll my eyes on, on the Committee on Economy, no matter what side suggestions come from, etc., above all out of courtesy and respect you as a fellow member of Parliament. From the report, as I said in the conclusion everything that is positive, we have pointed out, and also the state commission all it sees is negative here and here and in the debate and in the public procurement system, giving its proposals to improve and improve the contribution to the promotion of the public procurement system in the Republic of Croatia. And as for that other question on behalf of the consulting club, it's still going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45857	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45858	The Honorable Chairman, dear guests, colleagues and colleagues, to see how many of us there are, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, I think this, regardless of how few we have to have constructive discussions and that the debate goes in the right direction and what's most important water goes on my mill so that I'm satisfied. I wanted to draw your attention to a few things. Mrs. Rasdic has already said that large money is being paid to go out of our penalty pocket or for fees paid for poorly filled or bad documentation. Lucky for me, Mrs. Rasdic, that money goes into the budget doesn't go into private pockets, so that's a big plus, that's one good thing. We've made this document control clear. In fact, I asked the President of the Commission, which is actually a fine answer, that there is no point in having a body that controls procurement documents in the bodies that are being called for to be an integral part of the commission because then the Commission would control itself, so it is a good indicator that... we are not even thinking anymore than we are going towards amending the law to set up another body to control that documentation when calling public tenders. The fact is that we have at the end of all these procedures, at the end of the year or at the end of some period come to institutions, public companies audits that control public procurement, but we also know there are some possible warnings, but there are no major penalties there and there are no after these audits. Some data can be seen on the web portal of electronic public procurement, but these data that exist are not available in tabular form, are not systematised, so it is difficult to process them in some way. I suggested here, and now I would suggest it to the members of the commission that they propose somewhere on some bodies, that, among other things, they be monitored and public procurement carried out. In public procurement procedures, we often have so - called competitions. ... items, meaning items that are placed inside which a person of confidence knows that they will not deliver anything, and those items actually serve to reduce the total price of the offer and afterwards that legal person gets a job. This item is never delivered and business is actually done for those items that have a price that is not real and that is much more than that which should be. And here I made one proposal, namely, I suggested that since all legal entities operating with state-owned companies, owned by local self-government, must actually issue eCurrent accounts. If we create the right encryption system and if we implement this system in the case of procurement documents, we can easily remove the possibility of any competition setting from those eCommands that will arrive at the client afterwards. It's very simple. Electronic traces exist, everything is digitized and the purchase is digitized and the execution digitized, we just need to connect it and we'll get the exact data. If we need to sit down and we can elaborate it, we can even go into a little bit of a process of that idea. As far as punishing a person, I would if it were possible for you to suggest that responsible persons be punished. When they give out of their pocket their money and big money, not money from the budget of local self-government or some institution, then a little different will take care of public procurement and there will be different public procurement procedures and there will be different documentation. Likewise, if this is in any way possible, it is possible to provide for the punishment of those professional complainants who are actually making it difficult to make public procurement more difficult and prevent this public procurement from being carried out in the way it should and in the time at which it should be carried out. In addition, we need to prepare ourselves for this next period, and we have a time to get 6.3 billion from eu funds plus 3.6 billion more from potential loans. We need to call the competitions. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45859	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45860	Here, maybe you can pick up where you left off, just a question of what to do with the eu funds? So here we are talking about some almost 12% of the procedures that are controlled, which concern EU funds and are said to be not a large number. However, we are now in a situation where we will try to attract huge funds from the EU. What do we do? I don't think 12% is small, and the question would be more if it could be self-initiatively controlled, what can we do? And what bothers me politically, have we ever seen an epilogue that you think, that someone paid for the mistake he made either out of ignorance, was on purpose, because here are the same two-thirds of the selection of the wrong bidder or the wrong choice of bidders, that there were sanctions for wrong or wrongly carrying out a job in the collection of funds or the procurement process?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45861	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45862	I have to agree with you completely I've already spoken here in the Parliament, I'm for all those who make mistakes in spending money from the budget, whether it's a local budget, whether it's a state budget, I would punish them as harshly as possible. If it were up to me, I would make a special court only for officials who would handle emergency procedures and then don't proceed for 10 years and not think about whether someone stole anything, whether it was Fimi Media or not, and it would have been settled in a month. Unfortunately, we've been waiting for these procedures to be solved for five, ten years, it's forgotten, it goes out of date and nothing happens in the end. And if we were to deal with it quickly, if they were to pay it out of their pocket, the responsible person in their pocket would be a different relationship to that public procurement and to that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45863	The next replica of the respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45864	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, what do you think of the idea of forcing the contracting authorities to regularly update their databases with those realized projects? Something you've touched on, would that be part of their extra pressure, would they accept it at all, and what other suggestions and ideas might you have that actually reduce this appeal that goes from the same order or to the same complainants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45865	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45866	Yeah, I mentioned it, I didn't get to elaborate it, and you're well... if I can explain it, actually it's because we have a public procurement that's being posted by electronic means, we have e-accounts that come from suppliers to suppliers, actually the client doesn't have to do anything just need to get this other e-account that's being sent to the client by the base where the public procurement is and that those items are paired up there and someone who's going to control it, if it's going to be some commission, some inspector, some inspectorate or part of the inspectorate, I don't know, those who are going to control it can do it in a simple way. If information support is made, they can get ilerts on a daily basis. Each time the database with some new delivery is updated, it will receive information that something sat down or did not sit down and at the end of the year make an additional analysis for what was not delivered or delivered too much of what was ordered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45867	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45868	Dear Chairman, our honored guests once again. So, I think we all agreed on what so the state commission offered us as a report for 2019. However, we also heard these different voices here, so the name is "State Commission for Public Procurement Control", and yet its role, this word "control" is limited to control only then, in cases of appeal proceedings. So here, both colleagues and colleagues spoke about the need to control the implementation of public procurement and the need to control competitions. So when, as I have already said in the previous speech, when the commission does indeed post-festum and what is most or what needs most of us is right from the very beginning, what the competitions look like, what the implementation looks like, this is all a bit too late after a crumb unless there is a better synergy of the work itself. We've heard here that the state commission itself has job openings and that it's done this in reduced human capacity. Could it be that there is still one part that would try to see how to do, and we talked about corrupt risks, make them as small as possible, and look at the contests. Here, I'm just going to give you an example that I didn't get in the last debate. So, a few days after the last session of the Zagreb City Assembly, before the local elections, offers were opened for the previously cancelled public tender for the rental of motor vehicles for the City of Zagreb. The competition is worth 4.5 million kuna and applies, it is already in itself questioned because it talks about the daily rental of a vehicle for the city administration and branches, and the holding branch, and we know that it is always the most expensive of the daily rentals, and of course it was once again selected in the competition of the company Vitor from Split. In more than 90% of cases this type of competition is the same company winning the competition, and that is exactly the "Viator" that has been in the last 4 years. Made 52 million and 447 thousand kuna with the city. According to our information, this initial tender, worth 4.5 million kuna, has been annulled by the city because the specifications state that vehicles should not be more than 7 months old. The "Viator" could not meet this condition in the tender, but whatever other bidders were, the tender was annulled because I quote "the lack in the documentation of the notified tenderers". In the re-competition, behold, miracles, after the disbanding of the assembly, the competition wins just “Viator”. Cars are purchased from lower class to Audi A4, Mercedes C class, BMW 3, with several only delivery vehicles and even 10 electric cars. In addition, the contract also allows for the procurement of any vehicle past the costs of up to the amount of as much as 9 hundred thousand kuna plus VAT, etc. 20 % of the total value of the contract, respectively. So other than the eclative example of bargaining here, it's also about irresponsible spending of public money. What's the commission got to do with that? He can't do anything. If the tender was cancelled, one bidder appeared again, and we all see what everyone is saying, we can see for a reason that it started from the guess, how it happened and the cancellation and we see how it got, what it got, and whether it was for the benefit of the City of Zagreb, at which point it happened, so before the election, when eventually we believe that someone else would come in power, so it happened again. And imagine, in the 4th year, so how is it possible that just one company once in Zagreb, another time it will be somewhere else, was the only one able to offer vehicles without asking of course, and the other question is why are those vehicles, who need vehicles, why there is no rolling stock that employees would use, why, for, does those more functions in the garage have to stand car all day, why is it a daily rental? What we can do not harm ourselves with our own budget and citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45869	We have two replicas of the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45870	My colleague, Boric, I agree that there is a problem with public procurement, there is always no matter how good public procurement is because those procedures that have not been well spent on us are very expensive. Do you think it should give greater authority to the state commission in the sense that it can carry out the tests on its own, rather than wait for someone's appeal? And what to do in this case with one bidder, should we publish a list of tenders above some value, perhaps narrow and direct the public's attention to those high amounts where there was only one bidder, what were they, and then perhaps some additional list where the procurement procedure was incorrectly carried out? So let's try to find some mechanism that will make this process more transparent and where this type of action will be discouraged and to report to see who this one is, and for all of us, an attempt to match through specific documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45871	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45872	So I think that here are two or at least three, sorry, at least two or three questions, you should see what really is in the authority of the State Commission, which should be changed in the descriptions of jobs or in the very content of the work that they are doing, but certainly there is, it is obvious that there is a gap between when I say it is the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement and public procurement is not only when it happens, therefore by the appeal procedure, if someone complains about how it was carried out. So, if we haven't been worried since the beginning, since the competitions look, but I'm not sure if that's coming into their jurisdiction, but I think what I've said before, our system as a whole if it's talking about reforms, then there should be some legal reform, and as I suggested, for example. which would make it easier for the Central State Public Procurement Office to come less into corrupt risks because you have problems here that no one has ever talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45873	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petyr. [[Intruder Boric: Pardon.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45874	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Boric, all agreed that the work done by the State Commission for Public Procurement is a good job, and that they have their hands full, says data that in 2019 they solved 1094 cases, 1089 already have in this year 300 cases, so I really don't see that too much space that they are still self-initiative about this kind of work, going into some investigations because we have 9 members of that commission. Data show that somewhere between 47% and 53% of complaints are adopted. What I'm interested in is that we know that we have constantly some relapsers, those who are persistently complaining because they can't go through the contest themselves, but they're obstructing the execution of the contest, what can be done in terms of how such obstructions could actually be cut in the root?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45875	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45876	Yes, here we talked about exactly that, a colleague suggested that maybe, self-initiatively, without someone else or in a way that would be able to find information with them, someone referred to some suspicious, say, public procurement, by the way, the complainant, that's something I can't really say that would be in the description. It would be good if there were someone else, if you didn't have to be here, as I said, that one NGO didn't have to find an external evaluator that would show that the city of Zagreb lost in 4 years. 2 billion and 300 million kn because it was an offerer. So you need to see some other mechanisms, it's certainly not on the commission that works in the capacity it has, i.e. in his description, as it is said, in the description of the work he does what he should do. What I mean is, what you've stated is how many cases have been solved and how they're handling it, that's the same question that we can improve, for example. We know that public procurement is being obtained and interrupted. So they break into six so they don't have to happen at all, and nobody's talking about it and we all know it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45877	Thank you very much. Thank you. Before we move to the final presentations, I would only remind once again that since there is no vote, at the end of this point we will go to the presentation on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives, so here, who else wants to apply or, colleagues, please inform if they have forgotten that practice, so that everyone comes to an expression of who wants to. And now, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, Mosta will finally speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45878	Thank you. I will summarise what we discussed and remind once again of the recommendations for perhaps a report that would show us even more clearly what the shortcomings in the public procurement process are, that we can also think about further steps as a legislative body, but also as the body we have, I want to warn the public about the intransparency of the procurement procedures. In this respect, as regards the recommendations, this numerical part that is being delivered to us in relation to public procurement would be useful in processing and concrete financial indicators, so to show how much and what authorities of the state administration have paid for their mistakes due to incorrectly implemented public procurement procedures. So let's see how much funding from the state budget went into the complainant's pockets because someone didn't do their job right. Also, we can recognize the relapsers, those who make mistakes over and over again and who don't know how to do a good public procurement procedure either to please someone, or because they're really not educated and then work harder on that segment, to make that work the way it belongs. The second thing I would like to warn you about is the EU and the control of the funds coming from the EU. Since, as the report itself says, the errors of the contracting authorities in such procedures result in significant financial corrections, thus multiplying the negative financial impact on the budgets and we will start at this stage to attract significant EU funds, I hope that in the next report of 2021, unfortunately we are just talking about 2019, meaning in the one behind this which is now to come, we will have a special chapter that will very closely analyse exactly the incorrect implementation of the EU procedures. So the grant alone will be 12% of our GDP. In this regard, I believe that this report, which will be our turn in 2 years, and hopefully sooner if we are to correct the practice in the Assembly, should have a special chapter that will be detailed, as detailed as possible, to analyse what is happening with the funds withdrawn from the EU. This certainly needs to be preceded, and we must now warn the correct education on the implementation of the public procurement procedure with regard to the funds that are coming to prevent the mistakes that we will unfortunately be discussing later on in this report. What we should also know is other than the ones that cost us the most and the list of those who are professional complainants. So we've seen here a list of those who have six complaints up, but we haven't been able to read from that list which are those that only appear a few days earlier, and whose complaints in the largest number have been rejected. These are alleged professional complainants, their complaints are accepted only in almost 14% which is a huge difference compared to almost 50% of complaints that are normally acceptable. And what I leave open as an open question, and we will try to get an answer from Mrs. Kuhar, is the first public procurement and medical equipment, does she think as an expert that we can at least have a partial public procurement procedure with regard to medical equipment because of the great corrupt risk I've shown here a quarter of those institutions that are having trouble implementing the public procurement process are just coming from the medical sector. Can we therefore work to restore at least part of this procurement in the context of public procurement at the time of this crisis and consider it necessary for this assembly to propose certain legislative changes to enable greater proactiveness, the self-initiative of the State Commission to control the public procurement process so that we do not have to wait for the mourners often and those professional complainants to warn of some problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45879	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and will finally speak to the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45880	Here I would just like to point out some of the things that we have offered to help, something we have, we have given some suggestions to the commission, and I would like to ask the President of the Commission, Maya Kuhar, to help us in the debate and in thinking whether we should come to you, whether you should invite us to some of the discussions to try these proposals that we have made, to try to work them out, or to go on our own initiative in developing some legal proposals and suggestions in changing and supplementing the law in order to change these procedures a little bit and to have additional control of the full procurement procedures. This part of you that you're doing I don't think there's any dilemma, that it's done well, we can see at the end and by the decisions of the courts that have decided your actions. I don't think there's any dilemma that jobs are done well. However, what we have all warned especially from the opposition that we have problems with public procurement and that we need these problems as soon as possible, especially now before we start getting these large amounts of money from the EU in a short time, given that here is what we have been told several times in a short time, so within 5 years we have 12% of the DBP in Croatia who will be able to spend on projects that will, of course, go through public procurement. And we believe that these public procurement procedures should save as much money as possible. In fact, let's not forget this money and it's just as cheap since the measures that have been taken by the commission and the money that we're getting are not actually recognised by many costs. Among other things, remember not to admit the cost of VAT, so we'll have 25% of the money actually less. Don't forget not to spend it, not to recognize the costs of people who will indirectly work on these projects, only those who work directly on projects. Therefore, money is not cheap, and if we save as much as possible, we will have better effects. We know where we stand and how we stand on a scale in the EU and if we manage to make some moves in public procurement and some savings, I think it will be very good for our country and for our citizens, of course, for ourselves. As for the information solutions that I have proposed we are also ready to cooperate, we have suggestions, we have suggestions as many of these exist in some of our public enterprises there are already ready solutions, elaborated solutions. I think that there were some pilots who were developed at the bar and who were working at the bar, so we can look at it to work, of course not within the state commission, but perhaps within the inspectorate or some other kind of control that would actually do these public procurement controls, but I think that these 13-14 thousand public procurement procedures can be controlled without any problem if we have good information support, and nowadays what we have in Croatia, given that we also have a center.../incomprehensible/... we also have a FINU, we also have centres in almost all ministries, I think we can well inform it and that we can almost get all the information we need in real time. It's just a matter of goodwill and whether we really want that money to be directed in the right direction, that that money is actually spent on what we need to spend it on, and that there are no more of those, let's say, corrupt actions that are present, we know they're present, we can't stop them because we can't just except that we can report the state of this to the DORH or to the BOOK, and I don't think that very few people are willing to deal with it that way. Here, I thank you in advance if you will be willing here we are at our disposal to take action together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45881	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, he will finally speak to the respected Maja Kuhar, president of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45882	And in the end I didn't say the SDP Club would support the report we got.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45883	Thank you very much. Here's the Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45884	I thank you all, first of all, for this very, very constructive debate which I must admit surprised me with the constructiveity. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, I would like to thank, above all, everyone who has been commended, but this time on behalf of the entire state commission on behalf of all members of the state commission and professional services who are working extremely hard in this really complex area. So here's thank you all anyway. I just wanted to take a quick look at it because you really had constructive and good proposals in this section for your individual debates and debates on behalf of clubs. I thank the distinguished representative Selak Rasdic for his really constructive proposals. What I wanted to mention further here, which is on the trail of what we were saying in the report where maybe we all forgot a little bit about the economy ministry's jurisdiction to conduct administrative surveillance. So in overseeing law enforcement, it's precisely in those parts where the state commission doesn't decide on its complaints, because it's a very small percentage of those cases in which we cover that legal control. We have also proposed in the report as we have proposed in earlier reports further strengthening their capacities so that they can cover some kind of control of these procedures that have not been declared to be appeal proceedings before our body. As for some other major errors and failures, possibly in the procurement procedures by the contracting authorities, I only ask once again to be really careful in that part when we tell people that they have caused something by their actions. I know that really perception is such that most of the mistakes that happen are intended, but what we see in the state commission and what we see through the appeal cases we really see is that people lack education in that part. So it wouldn't be a good idea if we took someone down and said someone deliberately caused some damage to the state budget. They're such serious accusations that we'd get away from in our reports, since we don't really know the state of things. But what might not be bad on the trail of what you mentioned, means that if the state commission were to publish our decisions entirely on its pages, which is a remarkable and anti-corruption effect and an exceptional effect on transparency. It might not be bad, we have on several occasions suggested that the decisions on financial corrections being made public as well, so they would also be the source of a level playing field and a source of knowledge and practice for those bodies operating in the system of European funds as our decisions are the source of practice here. So it might be some first step towards that identification where the most errors occur in which part of the funds are withdrawn from the funds and any financial corrections. I certainly wanted to answer the honourable representative Pavić, if I understood your questions correctly, the question was why in 2017, according to our assessment, there was an increase in the number of complaints made. So we're kind of guessing, that's what we're referring to in earlier reports that it happened because of the entry into force of a new law that's brought a lot of complex new institutes back then that should've kind of lived up to it, so we believe that in that part of the complaint that's been caused by it. You mentioned the average time limit, what I'd like to mention, it's not true that none of the items were solved beyond the deadline. So the average resolution deadline that we've put out for 27 days is exactly that average resolution deadline so you don't get me wrong. So what should be noted is that there are simpler objects, and there are really, really, really complex objects that ultimately result in 80-page solutions that should be written at some point, that should be decided and followed by such a solution, and that it later does not result in any consequences in terms of financial corrections or other consequences. I just wanted to say that I was extremely sorry that it seemed to me that I was dissatisfied with the part of the State Commission's report on the anti-corruption action of the state commission and the involvement of the state commission in action plans and anti-corruption strategies. We somehow did not feel that we should repeat the measures in which we participate, reports on the implementation of action plans are published and are available to all. However, what should be noted, the state commission has a strong and strongest anti-corruption effect right through the publication of its decisions. We are one of the very, very rare audit bodies in the EU which, in full, means that it publishes all its decisions on the website. So can there be a greater anti-corruption effect than that if you know that if you succeed, if you do something in your procedure that it will be very clearly published with all the names and last names and with everything we have determined and with everything that has happened, it will be clearly published on our page and will stand there for years. So I'm sorry that in this part maybe our anti-corruption activity isn't recognised enough. In that part of the anti-corruption impact of the State Commission on them, the Commissioner referred to them in a report on the work of the State Commission, which concerns, for example, a change in prices on the market, a question under negotiations at the stage of execution or similar. Which really doesn't belong to anything that we should control. We don't really have any jurisdiction, or any tools and powers in deciding and analysing corruption risks in that part. So here's what I just wanted to look at, and I thank you all once again on behalf of the entire state commission for these commendable comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45885	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45886	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Cook. We agree that good education is actually the best prevention to reduce the number of complaints or errors in public procurement procedures. However, even when you have well-educated and highly experienced public procurement specialists, they say that one of the problems is that, for example, they can't actually contact anyone for the opinions they commit. This means there is a public procurement policy administration at the Ministry of Economy and State Development, but they give their opinion, usually after 2 months and ultimately does not commit that opinion. It means how to help these public procurement specialists to have someone to rely on, I say, even if they're well educated. And I'm still curious, that those suggestions you're making, let's say they don't stop public procurement procedures if it's obvious that the complainants actually made an unfair complaint, do they even respect your proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45887	The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45888	I thank you for asking the honourable representative. Regarding these proposals that we have made, for possible corrections or some corrections in the laws, that is something that we have proposed to the Ministry, and there is some consensus on what and how it might be, so I believe there will be some positive shifts. As far as this question is concerned that someone who can be referred to as a non-binding opinion is concerned, that is exactly what I think may be a problem at this point, which means we can't tell someone in advance whether something is a good solution, a bad solution. On the one hand, it is not directed to speak to anyone without knowing, not to listen to the other side in the process and in the case. The subjects in front of the State Commission are contradictory, which means that one side says something, the other side must have the opportunity to express its vision of things. It's very difficult, so when only one side tells you something, say if someone's wrong or wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45889	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45890	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Ma'am. The cook, it is true that you said that indeed the State Commission has a strong anti-corruption influence and character and I think it is recognized and should not be doubted, in the end and last week we discussed amendments to the law concerning the status of filling legal gaps when it comes to the State Commission, but also, some measures in the Action Plan to combat corruption. Since about 43 billion kunas are annually public procurement jobs, and according to some data, about 50% of the complaints made are justified, there is certainly room for progress for further education, but also for perhaps a stronger adoption of your recommendations. Among one of the recommendations, you pointed out that the capacities of the Ministry of Economy need to be strengthened precisely in that segment when it comes to control public procurement procedures that are not in your jurisdiction, so as these recommendations are actually being applied. [[Intruder:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45891	Thank you. The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45892	Well, here's our recommendation, I hope it's going to be accepted, so that's a continuous question, so whether the capacities we have in the system are enough for everything that this system carries and that is developing over time. I hope that in that part of here, a little bit of this will work, and I believe that colleagues really need help, not by themselves, and that's why we're always saying that the number of appeal procedures in front of the State Commission is increasing. What has to be said is that in time, it increases accordingly and the number of published procedures in an electronic advert. So the number of complaints before the State Commission is not an absolute increase but is relative to the number of procedures published. So they also need an absolute subport in that part, their part of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45893	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45894	Dear President. I'd just like to draw your attention to the need to punish these people who are making trouble with the paperwork, whether it was by chance, out of ignorance, whether or not it was out of trouble. Because believe me, my wife isn't too excited when I pay a traffic ticket for a traffic violation, and every once in a while, because I'm being careless and a cop doesn't ask me if I saw a sign or didn't see a sign, but he's asking me if you have money to pay right now or if you're gonna pay it over a card in a few days. So these people get paid for their jobs, and they should be responsible for that job. That's one thing. Secondly, I'd like to remind you of the help I've offered with the information systems. I didn't offer it for nothing, but some of my debates here in the Parliament gave way to, say, last January, to rise... and that we have one system where 13 services are used, the most services in our, informative... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we can do a lot of things, have repairs, have bases, go into action.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45895	Thank you. The Honorable President of the State Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45896	I thank the esteemed representative Pavic. Here, I'd just look back at this part. I didn't think it meant you shouldn't take care of those who were careless. I didn't mean recklessly. I am also an account in supply and I am aware that sometimes, it is very difficult to interpret the regulation and these situations are really complicated that are happening in real procedures. And sometimes it's very difficult for you, so if you put all your knowledge on hold, sometimes it's very difficult for you to decide what you're going to do. It's not even a matter of recklessness, it's what people mentioned by a respected representative before you, people need help. So they're not careless. They don't know how to solve a problem because it's really complex and highly specialized areas where it's very hard to always be sure what's right, so in that sense I thought we'd just keep an eye on people who work hard and who don't always have the ability to talk to someone. Here, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-16-0.u45897	Thank you very much. That's how I'd like to conclude the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
