ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42842	Dear MPs, respected MPs, good morning, at the start of a new working week, first plenary, first session now on Wednesday, as always, we have three points today, and we will begin by taking a stand naturally. The first is the esteemed colleague Stipo Mlinarić, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42843	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Is there a collective Stockholm syndrome at work in Croatia, why do I ask that? Because you don't need to be a doctor to figure it out. To clarify the word syndrome means a set of symptoms that define someone's disease, and it's usually related to negative conditions. Also, for those who may not know Stockholm is the capital of Sweden, where in 1973, during the cry of the bank robbers held four employees captive for 6 days. The victims became emotionally attached to the robbers, defending them and refusing to testify against them after their departure. One of them even broke off her engagements and got engaged to one of the robbers and waited for him while he was in prison. That's where the Stockholm syndrome came in. And in a medical sense, it can be said that it is the emotional connection of the victim to a bully or torturer in situations where such a bully or torturer brings the victim's life and existence into danger. It is my opinion that this very diagnosis can be used when it comes to the state of that part of the voters who have been giving their vote for the past 20 years to HDZ and SDP. So once again today, I will remind the public of the crimes that the martyrs and the abusers have brought to the victim, and the Croatian people and all the citizens of Croatia are in a state of collective Stockholm syndrome, complete commitment to addiction and empathy to their bullies. Here is the order of proven war profit and crime in privatization of 90% of the companies should be sufficient to deserve the disappearance of the political scene in all the civilised countries of the parties. Not to mention unexplored oil smuggling and business with southern dinars, countless affairs, Remorker, ATM, Patria, trucks, and affairs in HAC, HZ, Croatian Privatisation Fund, Croatian Forests, HRT, HGK and not all. A number of apartments and land purchased from the state for small money and sold for 10 or even 100 times the amount. The tycoons who, with the blessing of the state, have ruined the Croatian economy, and are now laughing at us from other countries, so ministers and ministers, mayors and mayors who in the short term took care of themselves and generations and now have private businesses that funded money from European and Croatian funds. Let's not forget, we should mention Podravka in the Spice affair, Fimi Media, sales to INE Hungarian MOL, and the Planinska affair, sale of Pliva in Verona, sale of the rescheduled Croatian banks, pre-profit deals that destroyed small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, the Agrokor affair, the purchase of armored BMWs, and in the end I will only mention Hipyo, Medikol, Sunčani Hvar, Brodoplit, Stone Ingrad and gold-plated toilets across Zagreb and on the highway, windmills and JANAF. I left a meeting in Mountainside for last. How much money has been taken and damage to a victim named Croatia will never be found out. It is tens of billions of kunas that have disappeared like Mesic's Australian homeland defence Czechs. And victims still vote for those parties. Not only that, we now have a version in the form of civil society associations, which are mammals of the zeroth category, so only these gathered eye can pruning some 800 million kunas. These torturers and thugs were not enough to rob but were successfully evicted by some 400,000 people from Croatia and a few hundred thousand more from BiH and Vojvodina. Of course, the problem isn't the problem is like me pointing to such problems. The problem is the Homeland movement that occurred a year ago, no matter what it all indicates is the existence of the Croats. seriously threatened by the actions of the parties mentioned. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42870	Let's move on, colleague Jeckov, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42871	I thank the esteemed president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Lately, there have been statements from various quasi-reformists of education in the media area, but beware, not at all, but of the only minority, more specifically, one that takes place in the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter because that is, of course, the one that bothers reformers most, otherwise known as not to extend the rights of the Serb community to the Republic of Serbia in this century. I think it's necessary to break a few myths that are placed without legal or practical justification. Just so the public in Croatia doesn't go astray. Some of these myths are that Serbs in Croatia have separate schools. To learn from the textbooks from Serbia and to learn by so-called Serbian program. So let's move forward, there are definitely no separate schools in the Republic, there are no exclusively Serbian schools, let alone schools that are isolated from the state education system. It is true that students go to the same buildings, that children usually go on the same shifts, have shared university activities, the only difference is that members of the minority community listen to teaching in their native language, in this case Serbian, and that if parents decide freely. That's how it's been so far. But apparently local reformers want to take it away from them with their education reform. A myth about textbooks from the country of origin is even easier to break. Subject curricula, curricula and eventually, educational material, starting with textbooks as paradigms for the teaching process, are fully competent, imagine, the Ministry of Science and Education in the Republic of Croatia and the Education and Education Agency, again in the Republic of Croatia. The myth about the Serbian programme, as I said, of curricula, the curriculum and the programme were approved by the Ministry of Science and Education so, for example, the history textbook and the history textbook of some founders from Makarska, Krapina or Borov did not differ absolutely in anything, except that one is on the Latin, and the other is on Cyrillic. So model A is also used in Croatia by the Italian, Hungarian and Czech minorities and their minority rights when it comes to education in greater scale than Serbs because their schools, unlike Serbians, are registered as minority, bilingualism is visible at every step and through the higher education system of the Republic of Croatia can educate their staff who will later work in the course. That's very commendable. In our neighbouring countries, national minorities have a circular education system in their own language and a letter from kindergarten to university. It is not mentioned above that according to the Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Serbia, Croatian language classes have been performed since 2002 in 5 primary schools. The list "Croatian word" lists a number of positive examples and testimony about the overall continuation of students in Croatian from kindergarten to university, there is also a lecture on Croatian language at the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad, which is also very commendable. In this regard, I point out that the Serb community is not only looking for something on top of others but also not achieving the rank of rights that other minorities have, but here is an initiative that wants to limit them. I will say something that is not a myth, education in minority language and letter has no alternative because language and letter are the key components of every national identity and lack of education and ignorance of their own language and letter leads to assimilation which society called democratic should not allow itself. And in the end, unlike their peers, children in the model A easily master the Cyrillic and Latin, hear about Negos and Strossmayer, read Kiša and Krleža, recite Shantić and Ujevic, and instead of ennobled this wealth of diversity, it is sad to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42872	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, just a little fellow Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42873	Thank you very much. In 238, I have to react to Mrs. Jeck's exposure if she's not telling the truth. Schools are separate, children are separated from kindergarten groups and to secondary education, it is not good for the City of Vukovar, it is not good for the Serb community, it is not good for the Croatian people, it is not good for anyone. Why share children? And if you say so much that children are learning Croatian history, I would like the inspection and the Ministry of Education to see what children know about Croatian history and the Homeland War know about the Serbian programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42874	Thank you very much, fellow Mlinaric. My colleagues and colleagues, this is called free speech or giving a position and each of you can say what you think, without insulting others, and I ask you to be democratic and tolerant here. You've got all the support in HS, and that's why you're here, so please stick to the rules of the game that we prescribed in our Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you a warning. Let's move on, colleague Glavasevic, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42959	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I would like to read an open letter from the citizens' initiative "Petrinjska Spring" with which I held a second-in-command meeting last week, we called all colleagues and colleagues who were elected to the 6th constituency and unfortunately no one responded except me. The letter is sent to all of you in fact, and it is addressed to both members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. "Dearly, we address you with another open letter, 6 months after the devastating earthquake that struck the area of the town of Petrinja and Sisak-Moslavina County. We express concern and dissatisfaction with the circumstances in which the ruins are cleared, the removal of the effects of the earthquake, the normalisation of life and the restoration. We are concerned about the inaccessibility of information and inadequate transmission of the same and a series of activities that do not follow them, and we can bear the greatest witness as an initiative for citizens. In the circumstances immediately after the earthquake, we had an understanding of the necessary time during which the institutions of the city, county or state will be formed and organised to inform and assist citizens in reporting damage or restoration. We have also experienced the experience of a pre-election campaign that has been further shifted to the backdrop of citizens' life priorities. Today, 6 months later, we are still in the same position, there is a lack of emergency recovery measures on many buildings, and the buildings have been further injured. Space devastations and lack of parallel problem solving, e.g. Roads or agglomerations that would hold some of the infrastructure are increasingly evident and endanger the everyday lives of citizens. We will list several problems for which we are looking for information, answers, or emergency solutions. We highlight the problem of building the Zagreb-Sisak highway, the Lekenik-Sisak section with a fast access road to Petrinja whose construction is now entering the second decade. The problems of traffic and traffic decoupling experienced their culmination in the centre of the town of Petrinja, there are no adequate detours that would allow the transport of heavy cargo vehicles to further destroy the streets and roads and also the damaged infrastructure. We are interested in who restores the destroyed sacral objects and determines priorities and during what period of time? By removing the earthquake of destroyed buildings, the city has completely changed its visions, in many places there are gaps, and the largest one is in the square of Croatian defenders, the area of former Petrinjka is now owned by the Republic of Croatia, does the state plan and idea of what will happen to this vast empty space? When does it move to rebuild and build health facilities in the town of Petrinja? The Health House building on Gubce Street is unusable, we all hear stories about building a new one, but isn't that information that we should all know and why we should be involved in planning the same through public debates? Currently, all health services are provided at the House of Health on Lopasic Street which simply does not have the capacity. The parking space is filled with containers where the emergency rooms and parts of the medical family doctors are healthy, sick, old and young are all currently exposed to high temperatures, especially the critical days when people are being vaccinated, when all epidemiological measures are being questioned. In particular, the premises of the pulmology department and the protective buildings with mental damage in Petrinja, belonging to the General Hospital, are important. Ivo Pedicic. The building of pulmology is not protected and is exposed to atmospheres and additional decay. When the citizens of Petrinje will be publicly available and the results of the survey conducted in our city will be published, why is this hidden? Are there any dangers? How do priorities in the reconstruction be determined, how do priorities for removing threats to non-usable objects be set? Has anyone submitted an amendment to the Law on Reconstruction, in particular Article. 46.a. when citizens can expect that their right to property to be abolished by amending or supplementing the law?" These questions are still due to the time I won't be able to get there, so I'm just going to move on to the conclusion of this letter. "Our list of questions and concerns is quite significant, but it is only part of what our fellow citizens suggest daily and what they warn us about. The situations we highlight do not require significant financial resources and enormous efforts, but with resources, people, mechanisms, and in a better quality organization, something is done. Citizens are open to suggestions and have proved to be right about many things. Although we have lost much of our dignity, we ask you to respect it. For the sake of calming the situation, please respect our letter and consider the situation on the ground. We thank you in advance, the citizens' initiative in the petri dish area."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42960	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u42961	The violation of Rules of Procedure 238, so you mentioned a meeting in a assembly where only you and the Petrinjska Spring Association also called out the other MPs. We didn't get an official call anywhere, so you're nowhere on the e-mail. So you can't be organized So we didn't get the call, I'm protesting, and I'm not gonna let the other MPs be called in because it was something in your organization. [[I'm just asking you a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43043	We are now going to the last debate, colleague Dalia Oreskovic, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43044	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. I will draw your attention to the excellent article Jasmina Klaric published on the portal "Telegram" entitled "The detail that passes under the radar of citizens for 15 months does not know how the MPs vote, and the reason is incomprehensible". The subtitle reads "Croatia is the only country in the EU that for epidemiological reasons does not publish the results of the vote in the assembly". In this article, the journalist sets up a very benign thesis in which he says that democracy in Croatia is not only dying with intent, but with lethargy, with inaction, and I will add to that a little bit of my own poetic freedom and say that democracy is dying just by allowing things to flow as they flow as water carries them, perhaps because there are not enough narrators who will be ready if it is necessary and performance to indicate that things are really led to absurdity. Democracy dies, as well as the journalist is well aware of by a ruthless war to maintain the status quo in the Croatian judiciary, by taking away oxygen from an entire series of independent institutions, by keeping under the control of the vast majority of the media, and by resisting and minorising the entire opposition. It's all a highway to democracy, that's what the journalist says. He's wondering where's Mr. Transparency sitting on me right now right across the street? And it is said that 15 months after the outbreak of the pandemic, this fact in itself is a defeat of digitisation and transparency, which, in the author's opinion, does not have a deep and corrupt political motive. Now that's a thesis you wouldn't fully agree with. This fact that there is no impulse or minimum will to solve this problem, even with a trivial solution, as it would be by hand keeping statistics on the votes of MPs outside the assembly itself, will become increasingly expressed in the fall when we will gather again after the summer break in these benches. Because if there is any reason, even if lethargy has allowed this state so far, there will be absolutely no more justification in autumn, the more the epidemiological situation may impose and introduce any more restrictive measures that reach and for the issues which of the provisions of the constitution we will begin to apply, and if we are going to ask for a two-thirds majority of all MPs for some laws. It will certainly be important to know how each of us voted in those situations that can be marked as unknown territory, as an unmarked map and very, very turbulent waters that can endanger our fundamental human and civil rights. The lack of transparency and excess volunteerism in interpreting regulations can easily become the subject of serious premeditation and additional weight on fragile shoulders of ever weaker Croatian democracy. Without transparency, there is no responsibility for politicians, and without legal certainty there is no social and economic development, there is no democracy as we have known so far. I repeat, this is now and my warning is not just something that was available from the media, if we don't solve the voting problem of each of us MPs, I will personally consider it a purely intention in further destabilising the rule of law and introducing autocratic models from some former dark times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43107	Thank you very much. We are going to the second debate of a respected colleague, Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43108	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, some are silent, some are unclear, and I will be very clear here on my personal behalf and in front of my party Croatian sovereigns, we give full support to my colleague Nikola Grmoji. Full support without delay. We're giving him full support for the attack on his family's integrity because what's happening to his colleagues is outrageous. And personally, we have a situation when my family home in Sibenik has been attacked and I know how my colleague Grumoja feels. But from this place, I want to give him support, a little encouragement and say head up, justice is on our side, and we will win. On the other hand, I have to give him support on the subject he's up to date. So it's about so-called. LGBTIQ propaganda. And you are sides we Croatian sovereigns have always been clear and this time we will be clear. So, this covert or public propaganda of the LGBT community is inadmissible and you both sides and colleagues of Petrov and colleagues of Grmoja have full support from Croatian sovereigns, of course and from me personally. Some things are the easiest thing to do and not say them clearly, but I'm going to say them as usual this time the way I know it. There's some kind of behavior that we've all come from, we're the result of this natural behavior, of the relationship between our parents who've always been and will be men and women, men and women. And we have some behavior that is not and will never come from it, and that is the main information, the main fact that we and this pay phone, the media, the schools, have to serve children and everyone all the time. I have to stress another fact here so I don't get it wrong. Every man is equally valuable, every man, regardless of the color of his skin, to his creed, but every behavior is not equally valuable and that's what we have to do as politicians and as raisers, as parents and as a society, every behavior is not equally valuable. Today, in a liberal society, everyone can do whatever they want, but I will emphasize here what is very important, someone's freedom ends where the freedom of another individual begins. And let's ask ourselves what European society is going to look like in this way for what 10 years, what 100 years, will it even exist? Also from this place, in order not to be misunderstood, I must stress that we condemn any violence and shame to anyone who has ever raised a hand to anyone because someone is different and it is unacceptable. However, shame be upon all those who keep silent and do not want to tell the truth that all conduct is not equally valuable. We protect each individual, but let's stress this other fact. The European society is being broken, broken into a conservative part and a liberal part. The topics broken by society are the topic of life protection, which has been updated in the European Parliament, the topic of the law of the LGTB community, the topic of migration. Here I am looking forward to having us Croatian sovereigns the next 3rd year. in the European Parliament, there is a true Christian activist, Ladislav Ilicic, who will fight to promote these values, Christian values, conservative topics. It's a fight that will last, but all of us who are aware of what's good and we can't give up. From this and for the end of once again support never Grumoji in his bid to expose and prevent LGBT propaganda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43109	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43110	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. In 238, long ago there was no such attack on the LGBT community and such discriminatory speech. I have no doubt that this breach of the Rules of Procedure will not be respected, but I do need to not be silenced. So, what does it mean that all human beings are equal, but not everyone's behavior? Does this mean that only when you want to create life is involved in a certain kind of behavior?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43111	Thank you very much, dear colleague Glavasevic. You know you've replicated it yourself, and you're not looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Here you are, colleague Zekanovic, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43112	It is also an Article of the Treaty on the Dear colleague Glavasevic, I've made myself clear and here and now I'm going to be clear again. So every human being is equally valuable, but every behavior is not and you know it very well and all citizens in Croatia know it. So the integrity of every human being is invulnerable, but every behavior is not equal to the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43113	My colleague Zekanovic, and you get a warning because this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica. Thank you very much, I won't give my colleague a warning because I don't know what the fact is and what's true, it's possible for both of us, but I can't judge at this point. Let's move on, dear colleague Bauk on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43206	They must wake up in their Croatia and realize that they are in the minority and that we tolerate them, said one of our colleagues, otherwise from the parliamentary minority. Mr. President, you, as a representative, are most of us tolerating and I am in that sense immeasurably grateful. Also, Mr. Radin, who is a minority, is in the majority tolerated by Mr. Petrov, who is in the parliamentary minority, and Petrov, who is in the ethnic majority, tolerates Radin, who is in the national minority. Jandrokovic, president Jandrokovic, who is in the national majority and parliamentary majority, tolerates Mr Radin, who is in the ethnic minority, but does not tolerate him because he is in the parliamentary majority, and the parliamentary majority would be minorities if there were no minorities and those smaller than minorities. In an opposition that is not homogeneous, we have a left and right opposition. Those from the right opposition are in the minority relative to the left opposition and then Mr. Grbin tolerates Mr. Petrov because this minority is in most of the opposition. And in the end, when we look at it together, we don't even know who's tolerating who. And it all started right from who doesn't tolerate who but prefers when a colleague of Thunder puts LGBT propaganda and paedophiles in the same sentence. What's normal about it is we can ask ourselves. Who's most is also questionable. In 2020, a second round of parliamentary elections took place in which, the presidential elections won by a candidate whose slogan was normal. Everyone loves whom they love. So it would be a question of who the majority is, and who the minority is, and what the majority thinks, and what minority tolerates it. Well, then let's get this whole story back together. This started with orientation. Some don't reveal their orientation at all, some find it late, some public expressions and participate in the procession, either through the city, or in the public notebook, and sign that they're not focused on anyone at all, and that's the case of orientation we have. LGBT people aren't the patients of my colleague Grumoja we know that, and pedophiles are criminals, too, we know that. Homosexuals are not, however, criminals although they were under the SFRJ Penal Code until 1977, and in those 32 years 1500 homosexuals were sentenced under the SFRJ Penal Code so that the former president was not to be said to be Croat, but certainly not even these homosexuals were spared. Let's cut short, the homosexual who drives the plane is a pilot. A lesbian who gives birth to a child is his mother. The homosexual who steals is a thief. The lesbian who sings is a singer. These are our fellow citizens as valuable and equally equal as we are, and they're not asking us to tolerate them, they're asking us to respect them. People say being gay is a matter of sexual orientation, and being gay is a thing of character. That's why I first condemn my colleagues' threats to Grumoji on behalf of the SDP, solidarity with him, and anyone who touches the bush who touched each and every one of us. Second, respect homosexuals are our fellow citizens, and let's not be gay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43297	We will now move to the 8th debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Zdravka Busic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43298	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would look back at my disinformation last week, or rather say one performance of MP Mira Bulja at the Kamensko border crossing, which has indeed caused great unrest and great infidelity among the Croats in BiH, as well as among other citizens in that country. They spread through social networks of various, truly false, or better to tell notorious lies that really upset the public. My colleague Bulj claimed, or insulted, I would say and really call all sorts of names, was false about his fellow MPs. He asked the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Staff to abolish measures for Croatians who want to cross the Croatian border in BiH. In doing so, he said that Serbian citizens were free to enter Croatia, which is really not true. I'd like to say here, what I pointed out yesterday in my press conference when I did, because I really, really wanted to explain the truth. Indeed, there have been great untruths here because R. Serbia had arrived 4 days earlier on the EU list, and we know how it comes to this green, so-called. The green list of the EU is not defined at all by nationalities or nationalities, but by the territories, or by the countries in which the pandemic situation is in that situation in a particular country. But BiH also came to this green list, unfortunately only 4 days later and there was one publication, unfortunately in, on the website of the Embassy of Serbia in Croatia that citizens could enter as before the pandemic, which caused a great deal indeed, and an infidelity because I, simply, many others believed it, it is true. But, we must, be assured that no one has crossed the Croatian border from Serbia without having one of those three, or has had or had, or has, you can, yes, I, I will absolutely tell you, I see that this, no, this one, denies or wants to disprove me, but absolutely let's go, we're going by the facts. So the public was very upset that, not only that, but they were spreading such misinformation that I was begging you, fellow MPs, not to do so. Actually, we don't do things like that anymore that we misinformed people because it's just not true. We are doing everything to make it easier for Croatians and others, of course, to cross the Croatian border for BiH citizens, and to cross the Croatian border is worth absolutely the same measure as for all other citizens and people crossing the border. I can only get out of my own experience, I went to France, so I've been vaccinated, but I've had to test myself four times in five days because we simply live in a pandemic time and we live here, you see for ourselves what we've heard today, we've been listening to free positions about, about vaccination, about pandemics, so let's not be a little more tolerated or we don't have to be more tolerated, but we present facts and truths, and not this way to go and say that only Croats are discriminated against, so imagine that BiH Croats are discriminated against at the border crossing. It's simply not the gentlemen of the council, it's not true. I'd still have a lot to say on this subject, but here's no more time, but I wanted to explain this. I'm begging you, I'm really asking you don't spread the false and don't call names like this, I'd say call your fellow MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43299	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43300	Injury. 238. I find it very difficult to listen to such lies from MP Busic, so June 26th it was open to enter Serbia without any conditions, Mr. Bulj asked for this for BiH. You know what you did? You also suspended Serbia for pressure instead of opening up to Croats from BiH. You know what people call you there, Miss. A drill? The mummies, the three MPs you've been elected from BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43301	Thank you very much. You're getting a warning from your friend Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43302	And that's and it's sad that people call you there...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43303	A fellow Thunderbolt, please. Please sit down, you get a warning, this is no breach of the Rules of Procedure but a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43304	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43305	You're getting a second warning now. You get, you get a colleague of Grmoy's second warning because you said it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so please stick to the rules that exist in our Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, now it's my colleague Miletic's turn on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43405	Dear President HS Mr. Jandrokovic, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, colleagues, colleagues, Croatian peoples. I welcome the latest announcements of Germany's abolition of all measures. German key Minister Mas says if the vaccine is offered, there is no legal or political justification for any restrictions anymore. The Gezen of the National Association of Doctors of Germany says no later than September the vaccine will be offered to all who wish to be vaccinated, and almost all the coronary measures will be abolished by then. To date, 40% of all vaccinated citizens are in Germany. In Great Britain, which also announces a complete opening and life with the crown as with the flu, I quote, a total population of 50% was vaccinated. Their health minister, if I'm not mistaken yesterday, Javid says we can't live in a world where we're only thinking about covid, not other health and economic problems. Well, good morning to our command of double criteria and general execution. Ioannidis is a professor of medicine, epidemiology, population health at Stanford University, the third best university of the world, and Ioannidis is one of the world's top ten scientists, there are 6,000 quotes per month, more than I would say some of our scientists for life. On June 26th, he went public with the latest data, saying 10,000 times the risk of death is greater in people older than in children. It sets out examples, Austria, of the total death rate of 90% of deaths occurred among the older than 70, mortality below 50. The age is the smallest. The Netherlands, child mortality 0.37%. In Sweden and America, the figure is higher, but look, at a million children, 40 children die, a younger population from 15 to 30 years old. Switzerland is dying of covid for a million patients 3. Very important says Professor Ioannidis no one mentions smoking, 10 million deaths every year we have for smoking, 10 million people for smoking. The professor argues that if an active smoker dies from covid, it can't be said that he died now because he was caused by death by covid because his difficult condition was caused by long-term smoking. The person didn't die from Covid, but with Covid. Infection fatality rate, Covid's mortality, of all infected, what percentage will die? Global percent 0.15. 0.15. Europe and America, 0.3, Africa and Asia 0.05 to 0.01. Covid, his mortality, interpreted by Ioannidis, ranged from one fifth to ten times the strength of the flu. It explains, if the flu is an apple, then Covid's strength moves from one fifth of the apple for young and children, up to 10 apples not for all the older people, but only for those of our old people who are in nursing homes. In Spain, in the first wave of all Covid's deaths, 63% were in nursing homes, in Belgium 61%. Ioannidis argues, we must not organize any new lockdown, dragon measures do not achieve better results in reducing deaths than Covid. There's a space to move around, people hanging out in closed spaces. The health system is completely loaded. 305 million jobs are completely lost globally. 500 million people fell below poverty levels because of lockdown. The people who are suffering the state of hunger have risen from 135 million to 270 million. Guys, what's going on? Some process, what project, pauperisation or what? A huge number of mental illnesses, depression, anxiety, suicides, UNESCO says that 24 million students stopped studying during Covid, dropped out of the study. Vaccinated and overexperienced have the same efficacy, Ioannidis says. May 24th was published in The Natural Science Work, which claims that the sufferers have no more months of immunity than many years of immunity, can send all colleagues an email. So don't make us stupid. Whoever wants to be vaccinated should be vaccinated, that's legitimate. Let's get the citizens inoculated. Manufacturers claim that this makes them 100% safe from death and hospitalization. Also, nobody, even those citizens who don't want to be vaccinated, can hurt themselves, like, you're being vaccinated and no one can hurt you, right, no one endangers you. Why such coercion, the emotional blackmail of the ruling and the sharper toward unvaccinated citizens? Does Plenkovic have to pay someone's bills, pay some pens? Here, I'm just thinking out loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43406	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43407	Thank you, Mr. President. I would only like to correct my colleague Miletic because he said something that is quite unacceptable from my medical profession, it is nice that you downloaded certain works from the internet, but you said another remark that a colleague from Stanford has more quotes than all Croatian doctors combined, which is a very ugly comparison because in Croatia every year when a ranking list of the best scientists, several scientists and doctors from Croatia is made on those lists. And I think it was very unserious. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Vrkljan.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43408	You get a warning, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a replica, and please, now this is the third time we've done the same thing in the morning, so please don't do it. Comrade Miletić, thank you very much. We're going to the seventh exhibition, it's National Minority Representatives Club and counterpart Vladimir Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u43429	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, about a month ago, the last time since the association, the Croatian Association of Cystic fibrosis came and an open letter to some of our colleagues, according to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here I have personally tried and talked to the Prime Minister last week about something being done in the direction of solving this serious disease. Some of the colleagues also supported this initiative, and let me read this open letter one more time, given that yesterday there was a commission, and some other things are not finished. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia we address you in front of the Croatian Association of Cystic fibrosis with the appeal to personally engage and support our fight that the drugs for 150 of this deadly disease are finally placed on the list of HZZOs in our country. There have already been two meetings of the HZZO Committee on Medicinal Products without positive and concrete moves. Like I said yesterday was third. For 2 months, Kaftrio is trying to breathe life awareness of the importance of medicines, Kaftrio, Kalydeco and Orkambi for the sick, mostly children because adults are almost gone. The disease unfortunately kills them ruthlessly on that road and does not experience what is possible in the world today, which is living with this severe diagnosis. These medicines affect the cause of the disease, and the first of them, Orkambi has been in use for ten years in the world and in Europe. All three medicines have been in neighbouring Slovenia since last year. Kaftrio, Kalydeco and Orkambi. They are on the list, while our sufferers, unfortunately, can only look towards the border to raise awareness of impotence because with us, these drugs are not yet approved. It is about medicines whose results are unequivocally and transparently measurable in the documentation provided to HZZO. Lung transplant candidates after administration are removed from the list, those dependent on a bottle of oxygen no longer need it. The organs no longer fail because it affects the cause and corrects the error caused by the protein and becomes functional. The disease is now treated only symptomatically and shortens unfortunately, lifespan. The costs of transplants are extremely high, which are mainly carried out abroad. The cost of frequent hospitalisation of patients and the cost of medicinal products that only temporarily patch holes resulting from progression of the disease. Croatia is a country where it is nice to live. Unfortunately, when you don't have a child whose life depends on someone's decision whether money is worth spending or we have other priorities. Croatia is a country to fight for life because it does not mean that this system will recognize itself in these cases. It is about guaranteed human rights and children's rights because they have been affected by the masculine of children, whose rights are guaranteed by documents, both the UN and the EU and the highest legal acts of the Republic of Croatia. Here, and the Association, and I personally appeal to all relevant persons in the Republic of Croatia to ask HZZO to still put the medicines of the manufacturer Vertex Pharmaceuticals on the list of particularly expensive medicines and personally support and join the fight because every life saved is a decision that we can be proud of tomorrow. My colleagues and colleagues, we can take a deep breath. Let us approve this medicine, here and personally know several children who, unfortunately, suffer from this severe disease, I have joined the campaign from the beginning, as well as many others, as well as mountainous societies, associations, many politicians, many athletes, the team of the Republic of Croatia, on this side, please, approve this medicine, provide Tonki and Viti with another 150 patients with cystic fibrosis of life's breath. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55090	We have come to an end with the presentation of the position of club representatives and independent representatives and MPs, and we will now move on to the agenda as we have announced. First point: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 140. The Proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of the final bill, with us is the respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55091	Thank you. Honorable President, distinguished MPs and MPs. As you heard firstly before us, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act, something we had a few weeks ago in our first reading, is something that is related to last week's debates on the law on amendments and additions to the laws that were in the first reading regarding investment, on the same track with the same goal, with the same motivation regarding the EU itself. Of course, we here are absolutely transposing certain directives, five directives that relate to two regulations and above all to full compliance with the current acquis itself, European standards, with the objectives of liberalising the capital market and cross-border cooperation, and a high level of protection of investors and the cooperation of competent authorities. It is the denominator of all the amendments and additions that we have transposed, but not only that, we in every opportunity, or any of these amendments and additions, or the transposition of the regulation's implementation directives, have taken a step further, always recognising, listening only to the capital market in Croatia to this liberalisation, to some possibility of greater activity on the market itself, as well as here the case, of course in cooperation with the HANFA regulatory supervisory body, but also other stakeholders. So the same thing in these final additions we have proposed and we are proposing here now in the second reading of certain things that will just follow this Egypt, and Egypt is strengthening the possibility of financing primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurship or capital with protection and increasing the safety of investors and all the risks they bear. So, of course, we will all agree again, probably in the debate, that we and the rest of the EU and the world's capital market are not in line with the numbers and relationships themselves, and that we are in cascade, it's true for the reasons that we can discuss them now, but I think that more or less everyone is realistic and reasonable, so this market itself is very dynamic and is always subject to change, and that is why these changes are going towards perfection. We today and generally have a chance to jump on a train away before some were 50 years ago when they were in a situation like we are today as states and the very development of the capital market and it is our chance to take advantage of that. In particular, here they are taken over into the Croatian legal system of two acts, that is the Credit Supervision Directive of Investment Companies and the Regulation which is actually related to prudential requirements for investment companies. Therefore, it is one of the most important innovations related to the separation of the regulatory framework of credit institutions and investment companies. Since this is not currently recognised in the current legislation in... the fact that the different risks of the credit institutions themselves of investment companies were actually applied to by the same rules. It is therefore a new prudential framework, new advertising, investment companies that prescribe new reporting requirements, publishing, capital requirements, liquidity exposure and the very receipts of investment companies. In general, as far as our market is concerned, we are currently dealing with 26 consultants or investment activities and 6 investment companies themselves, just to put it in some context. When we look at their total assets, it was at the end of last year 67.5 million kuna, with a profit of 2.7, and when we look at credit institutions, first of all, it's 460 just over 462 billion kuna and a profit of 2.7. Of course, there are insurance companies that are almost 48 billion kuna assets, and we get slightly less than 700 million kunas, the licking of the company 20 billion, the profit of 210 etc., so it's obvious that so far we are always tied to these credit institutions and that this is the main source of the capital of our entrepreneurs and that's what the numbers themselves say, it's a kind of banking system. However, this and the numbers that we record today are also the latest developments in the stock market as regards the development of the capital market, and in April, when we had the issue of municipal bonds, and Erste bank also went to a new issue on borrowing or bonding on the external market this month or last month. So, a little bit of that market, so when we look at the raw data itself is growing, especially in shares where the traffic in June has increased by almost 29% compared to the month before. Let's say these ETFs we talked about last week as a type of UCITS fund grew 14% more than in May, and market capitalisation itself also increased by 14%. So, surely the indices, the indices are growing and we're going back to the one before the pandemic period, in June we reached these base points of over 2,000 base points as regards the very index of our stock market itself. The total turnover in the stock market in May was 224 million kuna and was exactly what I said 29.9% higher than the previous month. This market capitalisation is currently something reduced at the monthly level, but it is currently on the 262.5 billion kuna. What I also said is that the objective of these changes and additions at EU level is actually to ensure the same conditions as we discussed last week, the same rules of play for all control matters, as regards operating conditions, as regards cross-border transactions, so that it does not happen exactly in order to ensure that market services or the very flow of capital and the very values that are fairer, in a fair way. And yet all with the aim of providing enough capital to cover the risks of investment companies, so that security aspect. Thus, the new prudential framework primarily refers to specific prudential requirements for the initial capital of investment firms and is prescribed by these changes and additions to the single initial capital of investment companies, depending on the investment services and the activities that the company performs, in accordance with their size and complexity. So, is it just doing a service, is the depositary dependent on practically capital sources ranging from EUR 75,000 to EUR 750,000 with.../incomprehensible/... 150 just depends on these terms. What is further prescribed is that it is proposed to prescribe that our HANFA is therefore authorised as a supervisory authority to verify the compliance of the business of investment firms with the directive and the prudential supervision Regulation. It may also impose additional capital requirements on an investment firm in the event that the capital which it does not have does not cover all the risks to which the company is exposed. Therefore, there are also revised rules on the policy and practice of receiving and corporate governance standards that need to be harmonised with the risk profile of the investment company itself in order to prevent excessive risks from being taken over, of course, and to enable the orderly functioning of investment companies. I say again that security aspect of property protection because we here can all agree that it's too small, how people should get information of course, but one false investment can cause great losses and then they'll wonder who's guilty and why you're yelling that you should do it. So, always this risk is present and it must always be taken special care to that security aspect if we speak especially in the face of that financial crisis 10 years ago. Therefore, investment firms will establish appropriate measures for the variable and fixed part of the total income, taking into account their business activities and related risks, but will also allow them to be more flexible in relation to the payment or to be given variable benefits. However, the application of certain requirements in management systems and in reception policies and procedures is abolished by respecting the principle of proportionality. That goes into this part of the story about reducing administrative burdens. On the other hand, companies from third countries are again under stricter measures than granting approval to legally binding requirements in the area of priority and organisational rules and rules of business. It also conveys other provisions. Therefore, the exercise of supervision on a consolidated basis over a group of investment firms is arranged and the possibility of setting up colleges of supervisors is given, the regime of issuing and authorising supervision of data providers, licensing authorities and supervision of more significant service providers is arranged. It proposes.../incomprehensible/... these data providers themselves a lot of data and passes to the supervision of the European Securities and Market Capital Supervisors of the ESMA. This was similar by entering the euro area, so the growing banks are going under European supervision just to ensure uniform application, uniform game rules and uniform control. And these lower ones are still being controlled at national level and will continue to be licensed and supervised by our authorised body. So no one tells anyone there's no right to follow. The exemption from the application is arranged, it is interesting to note, these legal provisions to the provider of services of joint financing, etc. crowdfunding is therefore clearly prescribed that the provider of the joint, joint financing service is not subject to the requirements of the Capital Market Act. Otherwise, there is a regulation that has been passed I think in October of last year that comes into force since 7 November of this year, just the regulation on this Crowdfunding. The formal burdens are lifted, the achievement of a balance between the sufficient level of transparency towards the client of the highest standards of protection and acceptance of costs and the fulfilment of the requirements for the provision of investment services themselves is arranged. Also, what we mentioned among those things, what is new and what we are doing here is that there are also regulatory redundancies from the EU package are being transferred to the capital market segment, etc. Capital Markets Recovery Package which was published this year in February. So this will specifically mean introducing a new shorter prospectus, i.e. the EU's recovery prospectus, which will allow issuers to increase capital over the next year. Therefore, there will be changes in the minimum information requirements that the prospectus must have, therefore, as a single information document that must be provided by the issuer, which requires a lot of both time and effort and the costs themselves. Certainly, for some smaller, smaller operations on the financial market, it was known that the cost and time of issue, or the production of that prospectus, was much higher. It is a catalogue of information from financial, management and all others about a particular.../incomprehensible/... and what it does and all those financial shows that it is practically as one sort of.../incomprehensible/... is quite expensive and complex, and for some small amounts and small activities then it turns out that people give up practically because it is said to people more expensive pie than tepsia. Also, what is just an emphasis on the entire Capital Markets Recovery Package is with small and medium-sized enterprises their need for capital that is recognised. Otherwise, this form of disbursement certainly makes it easier for them to actually access the capital itself and provide an alternative approach. Of these other amendments, I would point out that these amendments and amendments and laws should contribute to the simplification of the business of investment firms, above all through the gradual abolition of communication methods in paper form, i.e. digitalisation or the introduction of electronic data delivery rules, then to the mitigation of requirements regarding the management of bond products, and to facilitating business with professional investors and qualified employers. It is also possible for investment companies to meet certain conditions and to pay together the research and enforcement services provided. Last week we talked about pre-maketing, here we have in order to protect the interests of investment service users that financial promotion of investment companies, so that's what's also important to popularisation on the other hand and to, to clearly establish the rules of the promotional activities themselves, and how to work that exactly in terms of investment in the financial instruments itself, that other than regulated entities, means that we think of an investment company or a tied representative, can also be performed by market intermediaries, and then, by expanding the activity of the market process, this proposal of the law is precisely regulated by which and what conditions they can perform these services of the same financial promotions which are recognised as the importance of the... , but again I say we had those examples of "grinvoshing" also in some amendments and additions to the law, so we need to know exactly what conditions something is promoting. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law also introduces certain changes relating to the regulated market or the market itself, in the correlation between the stock market and the HANFA as the competent authority, so far the prior notification procedure in relation to the market regulation services, or the stock market pricer, is now abolished and the obligation for HANFA to approve that price list or stock exchange must be granted prior approval and, above all, to verify that the fees for regulated market services are set out in a transparent and correct and non-discriminatory manner by leading, of course and reasonable commercial conditions. It is also proposed to introduce a mandatory issue of HANFA's approval for market status changes, to set up a branch outside the Republic of Croatia, to acquire shares that cross 25% of voting rights in another legal person, and also to protect small shareholders is further regulated by the process of withdrawing shares from the regulated market, we also had a similar, similar thing last week, which is the same only for open investment funds regarding the notifications and fees themselves. For the purposes of the administrative discharge already mentioned, the obligation of the issuer relating to the annual publication of the data on the acquisition and holding of its own shares shall be abolished. The undertaking in question was introduced by this law in 2018, but it was found that the provision did not provide sufficient transparency but... administrative burden, so she's now being deleted from the law by this proposal. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we said to listen and the constant supervisory body is in communication with the market's own stakeholders. Finally, he would just point out something that we also had in our first reading discussions about the amounts themselves related to the reporting of non-financial and other contracting parties in trading with OTC derivatives according to the HANFA or what would be in the translation... i.e. direct trading of securities past the stock market, so we are still standing there as was in the first reading, the same proposal remains, so that only that this reporting requirement to cover only more significant positions on those who have concluded more than 100 such transactions with them... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] and derivatives, i.e. their gross nominal amount exceeds 300 million kuna and this 50 million criterion, or which had open positions, so the total gross nominal amount of over billions has so far been 100 million kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sure it's something that's going to boost the market and I think about that, that I've seen data that OTC market traffic may have increased by 78.1%. The last time we had ratios with the billions themselves, so that was 208 million years ago as far as these entities were concerned, I think there were 8 entities left to trade in the securities of the ministry or the bonds issued by the Ministry of Finance that the recipients had, so there was some disproportionateness in relation to the Zagreb Stock Exchange 28 billion, 3 billion, when it got out of hand we actually see that this market is quite, quite weak, and there is certainly the possibility of encouraging and greater activity. And finally, what is administratively done is that further arrangements are being made for the completion of the surveillance procedure, so the HANFA will be followed up after the supervision has been carried out whether, when the conditions are met, it is necessary to make a declaration that these illegalities and possible irregularities have been previously identified by a solution and that the procedure has been terminated, so there is no limbo di you do not know where you are, so it must be solved exactly. Here, I think that, in general and ultimately, the most important parts are the ones you would sum up in terms of singleing out investment companies outside these terms of credit institutions and their prudential requirements. As far as capital itself is concerned, they remain more or less at the same level, so far being 6 million kuna, that is the EUR 750,000. I said we have 6 investment companies, 4 are categorized as d.d., 2 as d.o.o., they according to some classification, so they didn't have class 1 and 1a, 1b or 1 minus, but class 2 and 2 are class 3, so we're talking about sizes, I just think that 15 billion euro for class 1 is some threshold, so in class 2 as regards their size and that's one sure potential for further development of activity that... to the liberalisation that not only we recognise but the whole EU that directs the whole market will also contribute to an economic recovery that is indeed the goal and one of the indirect changes of course I will repeat the protection of investor safety. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55092	I'd like to thank the Secretary of State, so stay here because we have five replicas, and first of all, our dear colleague, Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55093	... Croatia bbb, with stable prospects and that the pressure on state finances caused by the pandemic should neutralise the recovery of a tourism-based economy and EU support. [[Last-on speaker]] Please, what are Croatia's prospects for improving the capital market rating?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55094	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55095	Thank you. First of all, surely to one conservative.../incomprehensible/... conservative, or smart consumption policy that this government continues and at this time of crisis, that we have got a good perspective amongst the 3 best in terms of growth itself that crosses 5% of next year's projections, so surely all transpositions of these regulations or the regulation directive will contribute to this development of the segment of the capital market which again, comes to the recovery of the economy itself because without the recovery of the economy that is not related to public consumption, we certainly cannot have the parallel growth that we want. Of course, surely encouraging news regarding the very date of entry into the Eurozone will bring us a potential better investment rating, and in the end only when borrowing what I can only briefly mention, the issue of new bonds, now several days ago the Ministry of Finance and the Republic of Croatia in Refinancing saved 135 million kuna just getting on the basis of this rating and better... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55096	Thank you. Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55097	Thank you, the well-respected president of HS, the esteemed state secretary, as we have heard, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market which regulates and aligns the Croatian capital market with the acquis of the EU and European standards. Among other things, the Final Proposal for a Law also lays down provisions on the protection of small shareholders, primarily related to the regulation of the process of withdrawing shares from the regulated market, the establishment of fair and correct compensation and the fair value of the shares, so I would ask you, if you can tell the public and the citizens, specifically about the protection of small shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55098	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55099	Here, thank you. You've detected this more or less well, there couldn't have been anything more to add. So we generally see that this way, as they can see from the side what the EU itself is, they are always being encouraged by the capital market, new sources of funding, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and in a way, and this is what some of these respected MPs and MPs will always be aware of, by activating the savings we have. So, the potential for small shareholders to be activated is recognised, in order to activate them, to increase the level of security to reduce that risk precisely through these open investment funds which are one of the least risky forms of investment, especially when specialised, if we are talking about these ETF funds, to invest in certain segments of the development of some industries is something that is certainly the model that the EU has recognised how to transfer some of that savings to the economy, which would then get more funding. So that's always something to do, and I agree, I think we all agree it's potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55100	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague, Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. First one recommendation, perhaps, together with the Agency, to analyse the effects of all these regulations because for the last 5, 6 years we have changed a lot of these directives, coordinated with the EU, it would be good to see how all of this has affected the Croatian capital market to get one quality analysis of feedback because we really support it here, but let's see how it has reacted to the capital market. And the second issue concerns, recently the Agency's director said that it is more traded in Croatia with crypts than with shares. We're talking about the capital market, 3 billion kunas of annual traffic, 4 billion kunas are traded in Croatia. A question for you, not for you, is it at EU level, at which speed is regulated for the trading of crypts? They've already outgrown this capital market that we're adopting here today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55102	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55103	Here's a thank you. Just as regards the analysis of the effects of the regulations, I think it is legally stated that it is the obligation to work on the law of amendments and the addition of the law, so we will have to do that, perhaps before some deadlines commit us, so as far as it's concerned, it was just the other day a conference related to this cryptoimovine, where it is in the first 5 months, I think 900 million kuna, meaning a total of 2 billion, so again, it's not as much as 3 at the level of the Zagreb Stock Exchange itself, but surely it's something that, in the first five months, it's been held that, or now recently since 11 June, it's the second conference, that's something that's still under the need of regulation, sure that the cryptostat can't still be considered money and there's no certain values, or fulfilled assumptions to be considered, but it's something that's certainly potential and how the market will react, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's a theme open to... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55104	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55105	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, with these amendments and the additions of the law, we actually see that the powers of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency have actually been given to the supervisory authority for and tools for the prudential supervision of investment companies, and with this in relation to the publication of prudential regulations and here, I think it should be noted, given that it is investment, that the initial capital of investment companies is increasing to some 750 thousand euros, and in this respect, what it means for shareholders and for all those who invest their money in such companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55106	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55107	Here's a thank you. So first, as far as capital requirements are concerned, they are more or less the same, now 750 thousand euros, so there is no increase there, however, yes, you have said well, that we separate investment firms from this portfolio of all rating institutions and conditions of their institutions, and so we prescribe a competent body that will just be able to monitor the compliance of business, but also that prudential supervision, whether the adequate coverage of their activity with capital in terms of risk and therefore HanFA will also get this proposal powers in fact that it can impose additional capital requirements because, of course, we all say that more should be invested, it should be more activated the capital market, but it should certainly be looked out for the risks that it carries with it, I mean, something that absolutely goes with each other. So we know that it's one of the more risky ways to invest than what we're used to, and that's why we need to keep that in mind, and that's why it's proposed that HANFA monitors it and monitors it further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55108	And the last replica of colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55109	Good afternoon. Continuing last week's debate, you're saying that now by increasing investor security, we're going to make more investment available, but here again, we'd be going over what's already been said, in which way we can rely on such optimism, since we don't have an analysis. If you say that this proposal has also been made according to some existing analyses of previous measures that have all been in order to increase investor safety, and yet we haven't had any positive trends, then we should get insight into these analyses that show that the current legal changes that are going towards investor security are going to change something. But as we know, and what we're always saying here means 11 billion kunas, despite all the wealth mechanisms on the banks, are increased, this wealth is not being invested. But in addition to these mechanisms, we have other mechanisms that I will talk about and in the debate, progressive taxation that the government is completely rejecting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55110	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55111	Here's a thank you. When we first speak in terms of these changes and additions, we are taking over the EU acquis that we have committed to the goals that I have already mentioned. As for some optimism, therefore, we can only read it according to graphs and these points, or the very percentages of trade changes that were uplifting. So, surely when you look at the Zagreb Stock Exchange itself and their graph of market capitalisation, it is seen to some extent that it is growing, only what we all want does not grow fast enough is such a trend that we will never arrive at all more or less growing, of course when we exclude this part of the crisis now. But what gives us optimism is that we're among those who are so small, it's our advantage in the absence that we're among the fastest to recover. So, we're almost after a year, after that big crisis that dropped 32, almost 30% now came to that before a crisis period already within a year, and that gives us some mild optimism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55112	Thank you. We've come to an end, so you can return to the place of honorary secretary of state. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most and the esteemed colleague of Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55113	Dear president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the screen. "The business of America is business" famous saying by 30th American President Calvin Coolidge, which was in January 1925. in one of his address to the press, he said that famous sentence that I repeat myself today in American and global business circles. And that sentence, or syntagma, is a postulate, that is, one of the foundations in which the American capitalist way of thinking works. What is the importance of the US capital market or the general American market for Croatian entrepreneurs? For the reason it is the world's largest consumer market, which is worth about 13 trillion US dollars. On the other hand, all business laws are tailored to business, and on the third hand, the United States has always been an ally and partner to Croatia since independence. There's another reason, and it's actually that success in the US demanding market for both goods and services and capital is actually a great reference for other markets in the world. And in this American market, some of our entrepreneurs, for example in the manufacture of high-end guns and rifles such as the Karlovac HS Product or on the other hand in the white robotics industry or providing software solutions in medical pharmaceutical, catering technology. As far as HS Produkt itself is concerned, it should be pointed out that the United States is the strongest military force still, that they are the most separate arms budgets, and on the other hand they buy guns from the Karlovic HS Produkt and, with the help of our partner Springfield Armary, distribute our guns to the US military, the US police and to the American FBY-U. HS Product is one of the four largest gun manufacturers in the demanding US market with one Glock, with SIG Sauer or let's say one Smith & Wesson. All those who remember the very beginnings of HS Produkt remember the time when some 20 years ago when wages were paid using the bonds that have already disappeared as financial instruments, and today here is HS Product in Karlovac, products for the most demanding markets in the world, which opened doors and other markets, particularly European. For the past 20 years, they've been operating at the highest tech level, and they've managed to produce a gun that has a radio ID chip that allows a gun as such to not be activated without the owner putting his hand on that gun. It is evident that the history of many economies, especially those in development, has been linked to the American market, as we have seen that the example of our HS Produkt or American Capitol, was visible to the example of Japan, Singapore, South Korea, one Ireland, Israel, and we see by new trends and that our Croatia is on this road and it is optimistic for the reason that, let's say one Equity Fund Oneness partner where our former tennis team Mario Ančić has recently invested $200 million dollars in hydrogen Infobip and on the other hand, we have therefore the capital of Koch Disruptive Technologies, an investment fund which through his other American companies and... So it invested in the Osijek Gideon Brothers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] "Insect only the best," so other than what HS Product shows, we also have one new start up, so Q Agency, which on such a demanding market, is now opening its offices in London and on the other hand in the US in Michigan. Q agency was profiled as a company because, for example, it provided services of financial technologies to one Swiss... it is a famous application that serves to pay in Switzerland and many states that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] as such, one of the five applications without which life in Switzerland is unimaginable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now he's asking himself a question, so here's what we're doing today, and we're discussing, so the inconceivability of life in Switzerland today, so it's connected to a single Croatian company that makes software solutions for that Swiss app. Furthermore, they built their reputation, therefore, the one “expect only the best and do the best, ” so they built everything under one roof of the service with the strategy. And they're their partners so IT... In which therefore all operational services are performed, from the experience of users themselves, user experience, further software development, testing, maintenance, and on the other hand, they have managed to develop new walks, so in terms of workshops and follow-up consultings, and therefore they are slowly conquering companies located on Forbes 500, one of the most important indicators of the success of companies in the US market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only that, but they have managed to profile themselves as a company offers certain solutions, so in medical technologies, where they have managed to develop such software, which, for example, captures and monitors knees and elbows, then the video is sent to an online platform that then orthopedics create a patient-adjusted therapy which then repairs the injuries itself and is already on the US market, so, but also in Europe, because the company leading from diagnostics to healing is known in just a few minutes. As for Gideon Brothers himself, the American analytical company IBA research has declared him one of the most successful producers of autonomous or independent robots that go by warehouses, so also self-porting goods and, on the other hand, the third most innovative company in the segment of the development of autonomous robots, their services are used by our companies such as Atlantic Trade, Orbico, Tokic, etc., and in Europe is known to this logistics centre of DB Schenker in Leipzig which uses and therefore services from Gideon Brothers himself. So what is the importance of the American market and American capital, that Gideon Brothers shows because we already said ourselves that money is capital, so the capitalization of over $30 million came from American companies and here's Gideon Brothers wins the American market. The start up companies so what we can conclude are, for example... Q agency, such as Infobip, such as Gideon Brothers and, say, HS Product, are definitely ambassadors of the 21st century. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so what was once Ivanisevic in the 1990s, Boban, Kostelici, today is a Kopić from Gideon, Filip Ljubic and Vanja Tolic from Q Agency, the Gutić brothers from Infobipa and, of course, our Mate Rimac from Romec Car who achieved a phenomenal result for their success in taking over Bugatti, so a company that has its own tradition for over 110 years. Dake, these are already names that fill financial and economic magazines around the world, so research portals and also on the list are the desires of the richest investment funds. So, on the other hand, in front of Croatia is the future of starting up the nation. It is a syntagma that was created in Israel itself, which as such placed itself in this cyber world, without being empty paroles that I now pronounce here in the Croatian Parliament, proves that our young students from MIOC won 4 medals at the International Informal Olympics organized in Singapore in June this year, the winner's wedding was crowned by Dorian Lendaj, Patrick Pavić, Vito Anić and Krešimir Nežman, and I see today how new Gideons, new Qagency, new Infobip and new Roman cars are founded. So we've seen how important it is that this connection between the American market, American capital, so education and so all that new generations are doing, and that's where we're very connected. But we're also connected to the first sentence I opened this exhibit with today. So, this is all I said, so the foundation is something that I can already say about Croatia if we continue like this, that business of Croatia – business or that business in the Republic will definitely be business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55114	We are now going to a second debate, SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55115	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. As with the first reading, the SDP club will support these changes and additions to the Capital Market Act which are actually a draft bill that is harmonised with the 5 directives and 2 regulations and when, in fact, in my replica is left with that question, when you look at how the US market is regulated and now some colleagues have been saying here and how regulated the European market is, see how much more and more detailed regulated the capital market than the US does, right? Much more are we already not aware of this for the past few years we have been constantly making some directives, constantly making regulations, these are profound changes that not only put more easily trading on the European capital market, which is certainly unique than setting up and protecting investment towards small investors to eat towards ordinary citizens and protecting their property, yes. And why is that important in this context? Today we find ourselves in a time that is difficult to explain that interest rates are zero, that citizens in Croatia have about 230 billion kuna savings and actually do not make any contribution to what they have been saving for years, to what they have managed to save as some value for years, as some kind of pension security for some kind of age etc. Is today such interest rates, zero. He can't know no one gets more than 1% interest rate in the bank so I don't know what time-limit. Inflation I said recently, is not some fear of inflation, but it just happens now that inflation in Croatia is 2% that the savings are committed is 1% and that already today this part of inflation is biting our savings to Croatian citizens. They're facts, aren't they? It's not much, it's not dramatic, it's nothing in that part of it, however, to change the structure, to change the structure of the economy, to change the structure of the capital market. That it just goes really fast next to us. And that's why he's here right now, which is why I've been asking her recently, recently there's been a debate on the cryptic market, or some digital market, and now all the companies have been listed before me are all the companies that, according to new digital technologies, are oriented. These are all new, new companies that are probably and participate in this market of crypts and digital, digital in some digital form of transactions and are so innovative that when actually the director of the agency said that in the first 5 months the exchange rate of crypts has honestly surprised me, I really thought that, yes, that it was still not so much in our market of crypts in Croatia, but the exchange rate in Croatia he even said by the end of this year 2.2 billion kuna. I remained in shock that at all in the Croatian market there is already so much trade in these exchanges of Croatian citizens' crypts, and that it would already exceed the capital market next year. So these shares that we're very strictly regulating here. Indeed, very strict, precise and according to investment societies and according to prudential requirements, and it is not easy for those who trade in the capital market today to meet all these European requirements because this is a very complex and difficult problem all to protect citizens. And that's why we said we support it. And they still have the capital market, as the proposer's representative said here, is making more contributions than savings. That's why I'm saying it. So there's already been talk here that the capital market I don't know has grown 14%, it's back, it's back some kind of trust, and the savings of Croatian citizens is actually at 0-1% on their contribution. So there will certainly be some and certainly there will be a movement of the savings of Croatian citizens with these money that they actually keep on current accounts, the giro accounts will certainly have that share of savings on the capital market, or on these investment funds, investment companies that, as we have heard here, still make a bigger contribution than those contributions to savings. But even greater offerings are, and that's what I'm actually asking the question, and it's not a question for you, but it's actually a question of Europe's market for crypts is developing so fast, it's developing so fast, it's investing so fast in new technologies, and here we've heard a lot of companies that have already gone far in their products, and we haven't even regulated it yet, we can't, we're always coughing up, and then we're asking the question and protection of these small investors who would probably want to invest in such companies as well as in such companies and in such forms of investment. However, I believe that within a few years, the European Commission will certainly come out, come out with this regulation towards the whole one market because it is now large, it is not a simple question, it is not simply understood by it not only for Bitcoin and other technology companies that we see and on the US stock exchanges are increasingly growing. All these technology companies are growing, they have so much growth that they are simply much more than economic real growth in the economy, and that's what always puts a warning. When a person grows so much faster than real goods production is growing, what is actually real produced or spent realistically in some economy there has certainly always shown us history should be cautious. And that is why it is good that Croatia is under the umbrella of European regulation, that we are under the umbrella of the EU and those of protection, this is only one part of that protection of small investors. Let us not forget those for the insurance of savings deposits where Croatia entered that umbrella of up to 100,000, up to EUR 100 thousand, which I believe is that when viewed at EU level, these are some of the benefits that may simply seem to us here today in a strict manner, quite regulated and that something is holding back, but I think that these are long-term benefits for the citizens when everyone is going well, but when God doesn't let something go a little bit bad we know that as a map tower we remember in 2008, how it all broke down, so how the citizens stayed in debt and about banks, according to funds, etc. And because of how much good times some regulation is being made that still controls this world's rapid growth, some new direction that actually goes to the economy, right? And because of that, as boring as it may seem to us today and possibly as self-regulatory, We think that although colleagues and not only at the Ministry of Finance, but also at the HANFA, and along with their colleagues at EU level, they are following all these trends, they know in fact, they have some experience, much better what happened to us in 2008 when in fact one of the biggest failures was from the 23rd and we see now and what a reaction to this Covid crisis was much more pro-mptative and because of this and such regulation will surely bring some benefit in the long term and therefore I have asked that some kind of analysis might be made of the effects of the regulations, not only as something that is mandatory to us but to understand the benefits of these directives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So once again, the SDP Club will support it, but it's certainly ahead of us to think that these big, big growth of these digital currencies, they're not like a regular means of payment, but when someone does it in RH 2.2 billion kuna exchanges, exchange rate, so surely someone has to ask that... We see that it's all this, there's some kind of, not just regulation, but that people understand what it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most people do not understand how it works at all and how it will apply to future business, and what is a fact, that it will certainly affect our lives in the coming periods, this area of digital and digital currencies. So the SDP Club, once again, will support these changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55116	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the national minority, and the respected representative Vladimir Bilek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55117	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here first, before I start the exposure I would really like to say that I fully agree with my colleague Lalovec because our lives in the coming years are going to determine certain business and trading precisely to digital currencies and digital, digital companies, it's going to be something else, something that maybe we can't even imagine at this point, as some new jobs, some new occupations that we may not even educate our children for at this point, but it's going to be what's going to be done not so far, we're assuming for seven, maybe up to 10 years that a lot of things are going to change there. However, when we talk about this Law, this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act, which, above all, brings further harmonisation of the Croatian Regulatory Framework for the Capital Market with the acquis of the EU, confirms our orientation or commitment to facilitate the work of investment companies by adopting these changes. In that context, I'd like to single out just some of the changes that bring us this, otherwise quite extensive law. First of all, this is the introduction of simplified requirements for investment firms and competent authorities to assess the appropriateness of arrangements and procedures in order to ensure the conduct of investment firms in accordance with IFD and FR provisions, namely, in the current legislation or legislative framework, it is not adequately recognised that the different risks of credit institutions and investment companies to which these same rules apply. It was also necessary to arrange what this amendment and supplement proposal brings, the area of development information and, above all, business secrets. Moreover, the safer business of investment firms will also contribute to changes that ensure the orderly functioning of investment companies and prevent their staff from taking excessive risks. The granting of new powers to HANFA in the conduct of prudential supervision of investment firms will allow the Agency to impose additional capital requirements on an investment firm in the event that the capital at its disposal does not cover all risks to which the investment firm is, above all, exposed. By respecting the principle of proportionality, the final draft law, as well as the IFD and IFR, also provides for the exclusion of the application of individual requirements on management systems and policies and procedures of reception to small and interconnected investment companies. The provisions governing the authorisation of third country companies, as well as provisions relating to the provision of services to the exclusive initiative of third country customers, are also transposed, which is particularly important in the context of the exit and the UK from the EU. We are witnessing on a daily basis an advocate for changes in business that brings us the development of information technology, whose application facilitates business. The final proposal of this Act brings a gradual abolition of communication methods in paper form, introducing essentially a rule of electronic data delivery, unless, for example, a small investor explicitly requires delivery in paper form. Furthermore, the mitigation of the requirements regarding the management of products for bonds with a recall clause... Facilitating business with professional investors and qualified employers with regard to the delivery of information on costs, fees and services provided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The final proposal of this Act protects the interests of investment service users by prescribing that financial promotion means promotional activities related to investment company services, investment company services offer, financial instruments and services provided by the investment firm, other than regulated entities, can only be provided by market intermediaries. The proposed amendments will equate the conditions of promotion in relation to investment in financial instruments for all directly communicating with potential investors, thus raising their level of protection. The complex functioning of the capital market where small shareholders do not always manage to protect them is, above all, further regulated the process of withdrawing shares from the regulated market. In accordance with the final draft of the law, the amount of fair compensation and elaborate in the assessment of the fair value of the share, audited by an independent auditor, the issuer must make available to all shareholders in full and publish it to the public at the latest 5 days before the date of maintenance of the main assembly in which it is decided to withdraw the shares of inclusion on the regulated market and, above all, the shareholders, particularly those small ones, could make an informed decision. The reduction of administrative burden on the issuers of shares will also contribute to the abolition of the issuer's obligations relating to the annual publication of data on the acquisition and holding of its own shares, as it has been shown in practice that no additional transparency is achieved. In this brief statement, I have referred only to some newspaper that adopts this bill that will facilitate the functioning of the capital market, which is in favour of supporting these offered solutions, and therefore, the National Minority Representatives Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55118	The next club of MPs will be that of HDZ, and a respected representative of Grozdana Peric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55119	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, Secretary of State with an associate. Here is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act in relation to the first reading of the law, and the procedure also discussed the opinion and proposals and the HUP. It is about amendments and additions to laws that primarily concern further harmonisation of the Croatian capital market regulatory framework with the EU acquis. and, as already noted here, it applies and transposes five EU directives and ensures the implementation of two regulations. Special emphasis should be placed on the transposition of the Directive on prudential supervision of investment companies, so.../The speaker speaks English./... and so on. ensuring assumptions for the implementation of the prudential requirements Regulation for investment firms. In fact, in the previous week, we have already discussed and witnessed amendments and additions to the Alternative Investment Funds Act, as well as open investment funds with a public offering, so this is part of the implementation of all these changes relating to these companies. In view of the fact that this new credit framework for investment firms is also a set of specific prudential requirements for the capital of these investment companies, this is what I said in the replica itself, so the power of the HANFA is that, with supervisory powers which it has so far both tools and powers for prudential supervision and prudential regulations. This is therefore a very complex law which, in cooperation with HANFA, is really important to regulate everything in detail and quality, given that this business includes very important institutions that manage large funds in this way. The single initial capital of investment companies is also prescribed, depending on the services and activities that these investment firms are carrying out, and so is the art. The 8th law, in relation to the previous regulation, is expressed in euro equivalents, so from 750,000 euros to different capital, depending on which businesses the investment company deals with, so from 75,000 euros, 150,000 euros to 750.00 euros. Coordination with the EU acquis is also carried out with the aim of removing formal burdens as well as achieving a balance between the sufficient level of transparency towards the client, i.e. the highest standards of protection and the eligible costs of meeting the requirements for investment service providers. One of the changes to what is happening is that the HANFA also introduces authorisation for the status changes of the stock exchange. Therefore, if a branch is established outside the Republic of Croatia and for the acquisition of shares exceeding 25% of voting rights in another legal person, the HANFA will determine and approve the market price list itself. It is important to note that it is also in relation to the article. 14. what investment firms need to do, so with regular ones, they are responsible for strategies and policies, as well as policies of investment companies for the area of risk. So, she's bound to form and monitor all the risks that happen, and so on. 16 regulates when an investment firm is obliged to set up a supervisory board referred to in Article 16. 26. Thus, when the total value of the balance sheet and off-balance sheet assets over a period of four years that directly precedes a given financial year are more than EUR 100 million in anti-cunic value, then it is necessary to set up an investment firm within the Supervisory Board a risk committee and a receiving committee. These are all additional regulations that have not been so far, but it is in fact a protection for both small shareholders and large ones and thus greater clarity and legal certainty have been achieved. Here is a former colleague, Bilek, mentioned just about all the predictions that the publisher makes when he decides to withdraw the shares to do, in which way the elaborate is done, or what is the value, the fair value of the stock and how it is regulated, or how the whole process takes place. There are a number of such interventions in the law, however, I say is exactly this as a complex and demanding law needed to improve regulation and in this way establish quality, quality fair and transparent relations in the business of the capital market. The HDZ Club will therefore support these amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55120	The next Club of Representatives will be the HSS and the Workers' Front, and will speak to the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55121	Good afternoon, everyone. So it's about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act, second reading. First, let me say if we're going to support that proposal, I don't know honestly. So I will personally demand that we be restrained, but I will also try to explain why I believe that the question is whether we will be for or against or refrained from being irrelevant, and not only because any, not only because of the relationship between ruling and opposition representatives, or whether we are ruling in relation to the opposition and what I talked about last week, is that the opposition sometimes accepts some of the proposals of the ruling majority, and that the ruling majority never accepts the proposals of the opposition, which I find extremely dangerous, but also because such legal proposals represent that classical dish, the mechanism of classical adaptation to European regulation will not have any significant effect on the social majority. And that's why I think it's necessary to send a message, so maybe be held back or against it because of that kind of relationship, not that there's something wrong with this law here. So Secretary of State Stjepan Curaj says this mechanism and this legislative proposal are going towards increasing investor safety. In order to confirm such a thing and to get to the point that it is true, we should first and foremost analyse previous legal proposals and mechanisms to see what the effects are and whether we can rely on this. So we also said that we all agree that too little is being invested, but what came to me in response, we can't take as a relevant answer that optimism means it can be based on some rise in trends that are positive for the secretary of state. So the fact is, and that's the information we can't ignore that we have a constant increase in wealth in banks, and not enough investment. And that's something that really no statistics would do us any good to see more accurate data can't ignore. So despite all the mechanisms, increasing the insurance of investors' exposure to these, means risk exposure, etc., we always have the same trend, and that's in the middle of the crown richness on banks increased by an additional 11 billion kuna. Of course, even in times of crisis investors will be increasingly conservative and will go to the accumulation of savings, not to the investment. According to the report also of the CNB that we received, rich in us and otherwise poor in investment more accumulate, so 1.7 of the richest people in Croatia hold more than 40% of the savings and 75 billion kuna in banks. We have 120 supermillion people who have net assets greater than 190 million kunas, including 11 who have net assets greater than 640 million kunas. In the Republic of Croatia, we have 150,000 people who have about a million kuna savings on the bank, and their savings are only increasing. Also when we say and when the secretary of state actually answers that we should assess our trends to the positive because we are faster out of the crisis. That's what I mean relatively and exactly, we've grown up but others have grown more. And we miss that comparative analysis. The ruling does not really lie, they do not lie entirely when they say they have managed to keep their jobs but it is not the same to keep employment in an economy that does not need significant restructuring as well as in fact what is happening in our country, which is to fossilise employment in a country that is crying for restructuring where we have an oscillated structure to bring, where large business entities are missing and it all comes down to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and service activities that do not have the power to produce significant additional value. And here I disagree with my opposition colleagues to invest in that segment of our economy significantly improves. The state of our economy means the fossilization here really means the consolidation of that skeletal structure and all the measures so in the coronary crisis, etc., they went in that direction. Also, when we talk about GDP growth before the crisis, it means 2.7%, the best thing we can do is that such data does not necessarily mean improving the social majority standards at all. So we need to take these things very carefully as relevant data. What would economic development mean? So first production insurance for needs and we'll see that it doesn't work very well with us. So already before the crisis has increased and imports of food products from Germany, Spain, Slovenia as well as medical and pharmaceutical products from Belgium and Germany, today this data is more dramatic and it is more clear to everyone that it is based on future planning, and this would be the development of its own food and pharmaceutical products production. So the first competition should be produced or achieved by investing in these segments and that legislative proposals should be relevant should actually refer to such problems. And secondly, it's a production that can provide high added value. We do not have such legal proposals here, we are still going towards the opposite of what is necessary, and this is internal devaluation, labour rights cuts, cancellations, labour price cuts that represent the only point of competitiveness on the world market, etc. Now, first of all, to support this legislative proposal, we need an analysis and the legislative proposal should be significantly different from all the legal proposals we get here. These legal proposals should have statistical data to be used to justify or criticise the ruling policy, should give some interpretation. If each time we have this improvement in investor security, ensuring that risks are neutralised, etc., and we have no effect, then we should see why, so before new proposals, we need interpretation. We also need a comparative analysis with other countries, so if we say that we have growth, then we need to see what growth is in other countries, we don't usually get it. As for other mechanisms other than these permanent regulations that we receive, which are only adapting with the EU, there are other financial mechanisms, some I will say something in an individual debate so that it does not use time on behalf of the club for this debate, and here I will only specify what the opposition in large numbers agrees, and these are mechanisms of progressive taxation why it would be a proposal that would really benefit us, and this will not be a proposal that will change something in the social life of the social majority because progressive taxation is one way of forcing the rich to invest, to invest in social development. So progressive taxation is really the best mechanism we don't have. We, for example, brought five of Maric's tax reforms, all of which go after the relief of the richest, so we had the biggest tax relief for those over 30,000 gross, 30,000 incomes while those who have very low salaries remained more or less on the same. So before the Coronation of the pandemic, 70% of the population should say the same thing, we practically had no chance of saving from their income from those households that at all have a deposit in half of less than 2,000 kuna, so we really have to address these problems that we have one third of people living on the edge of poverty, and on the other hand we have rich people who don't invest and how to change it. So a lot of people have really minimal resources, statistics show that 90% of the savings stakes in banks are up to 10,000 kuna, so that's the maximum that most can afford so that we can expect minimal roles here and here with all these legal proposals. I also think we need to address a fact that I don't know how it's possible that there are not many people in the House, which is that we are the second poorest country in the EU, that Croatia in 2020 dropped to 64% of the EU average GDP per capita, compared to 65% in 2019, and thus we have cemented the status of other poorest EU members in society with Greece right behind Bulgaria whose GDP has grown to 55% of GDP, so we are indeed lagging behind all indicators. So when we introduce these laws that we did and last week with investment funds, then we need to see how this reflects on that social majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55122	We are now moving to an individual debate, and will speak again now in an individual debate, the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55123	Well, here's what I'd like to do with what was really a proposal from the Workers' Front, so I'm using that time in an individual debate. If progressive taxation were something that many agree on, I think there is indeed one quite large consensus here, and even among the ruling ones on the proposal, so to say the progressive taxation of the richest, and the richest are digital giants. That is, instead of rewriting European directives, we have proposed that digital giants be taxed at a rate of 7% of gross income, that is Google, Facebook, Twitter, Amazon, and I think we would get a big space for investment and for the state to be an entrepreneur. The State Entrepreneur is the state that is responsible, not the state that says the state is a bad entrepreneur and then gives up the opportunities for economic growth and the mechanisms available to it here. The other day we got the data, so the Workers' Front is to remind you that the Digital Giants Act with 7% taxation of the biggest digital companies that otherwise in the crown crisis recorded huge incomes and huge growth gains, they didn't really stagnate or feel the burden of the crisis. We know that digital companies, because of the nature and character of taxation, were in a better position than traditional companies and the Workers' Front set this relatively low 7% tax in other countries, such a type of tax was introduced in France, both in Austria, and in Great Britain, Hungary, etc. Even at lower rates, but there was no consensus at global level. Here last week, this consensus was reached, and we were informed that the G7 finance ministers had reached a historic agreement on reforming this global tax system. The most developed countries in the world have agreed to introduce a minimum international tax, but watch out for a minimum 15% on multinational corporations and that they will no longer pay taxes only in countries where they are based but in all countries where they make revenues through these digital services. The state budget alone in the EU will receive €50 billion of new proposals. So with ours to say so with a conservative proposal, Croatia would annually have increased revenues from the state budget to about 150 million kuna. This means the rates will be a lot more, but what's the point? So the proposal will be introduced and implemented only in the early 2023s. Our proposal would save and gain more than 150 million kuna in the state budget, we would lose meaning in 2.g. 300 million kuna, and if we had this tax even more, this rate. So really the state can be active, proactive, it can propose its proposals. Why we have not introduced that tax and why, I predict that HDZ will come very quickly with this proposal because it has now come from worse, from the boss, and when we propose it then we do not accept it because we are running a conservative and very inactive policy, we are only adapting to EU regulations, we are copying, we copying directives, and we do not have progressive proposals that would allow us to have some kind of economic development. We really find ourselves at the very beginning of Europe with this kind of ossification. And 5 to 12 we can no longer talk about the fact that, by adapting the EU directive itself, we really need to ask the question of root change why there is obviously not too much hearing from the ruling ones? In this bill, it will again be about this adjustment, the harmonisation of the Croatian capital market regulatory framework with the EU acquis. It is mainly about these specific financial instruments, so few people can even join in the expertise that is being explained here, MPs will mainly encourage the first part of the explanation that it is simple to coordinate the regulatory framework with the acquis of the EU to vote for this proposal because there is really no reason why they should not vote which I hope have tried to explain. We should stop voting affirmatively so as to send a message that burying with such legal proposals, and completely ignoring any progressive legislative proposals actually creates an idea of the possibility of improving the situation for the social majority in Croatia, and the real situation is much more dramatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55124	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55125	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I hope we agree that without adapting the EU to directives, we cannot function. If these adjustments do not pass, the legislative regulations we had in the past week and in the past few months in the debates will simply not work. In particular, if this law does not pass, we cannot function on the single European financial market. So we just have to do it, we have to accept it. And if there are any... Suggestions, if you think there's something we should do to make it better, there's something you've exposed, I don't know, I haven't been doing an analysis as much better than the current state. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it would be a good idea to write an amendment and propose it to the government as a proposal to further improve, perfect and improve the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55126	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55127	My colleague, you and I both know that in principle the legislative proposals and amendments proposed by the opposition are generally rejected. So the affirmative approach that we give the green light for each EU adjustment proposal has no effect on the regulation, while at the same time sending a message that something is done under quotes, and nothing is actually done. I don't think giving the green light to this proposal would be good or bad, but I really think it sends the wrong message, that we really need to send a message, especially because I deeply believe that any rejection of the opposition proposal by the ruling fertile soil is both for corruption and for the chips and for the transition to the ruling majority, and certainly not a fertile ground for changes that would bring something to the social majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55128	The Republic also has a respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55129	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you are not aware that we are a member of a large family that has its own regulations and has its own rules and that as such we are obliged and respected exactly the same and the same. And that as a member, we also have huge benefits of proving it, and right here is over 680 million for Zagreb plus for, after the earthquake hit Sisak about 200, over 200 million euros, so it's all something that we draw very much from compared to what we have to do as one big family. You spoke in the debate about this digital tax, but you did not mention that Hungary suspended the application of the tax until the beginning of 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55130	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55131	Good from the end. So that's true, Hungary has suspended, but we have many other countries that have had that tax, and Hungary has only suspended with the intention of introducing it, not Hungary, nor the best example. But that reminds me of another question you asked here. No, the Croatian government does not welcome all EU proposals at all, especially those good proposals. We have had here on the Committee on Labour for the second time a debate on European regulation that comes to our agenda or on the agenda of the government according to some regulation, let's say, according to a directive that went towards increasing the minimum wage and coverage of collective agreements, and today gender equality in wages where the Croatian government communicates very regressive attitudes. They mean it is, in principle, in line with these directives, but it actually sets such conditions that would lead to a completely unfavourable situation or could not be realised at all and our position in the EU shows only a place on that GDP scale per capita.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55132	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55133	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, therefore only briefly or standardly, but how I prefer to sum up what is on the agenda today and the debate on clubs and individual ones. Otherwise, just for the sake of information, we're talking today when we're looking at a wider financial market, then we're talking about 40 pension funds, 24 investment fund management companies, 15 pension funds management companies, 15 insurance companies, 4 company factoring, 132 investment funds, 6 investment companies that I mentioned in the introduction and 2 pension insurance companies up to a year ago we had one. So that's some, some of the cut-offs of some financial aspect of both our market and those involved, of course there's the Zagreb Stock Exchange itself. As far as these changes and additions are concerned, I'll just briefly sum them up. Therefore, what is being introduced are simplified requirements for investment firms and supervisory authorities to assess the appropriateness of the arrangements and procedures prescribed by the single initial capital of investment companies, depending on the services and activities the company is carrying out, so there is no increase in initial capital. So we also have one social advertising or.../incomprehensible investment companies from banks, so that's the main and purpose of both this directive and what we're doing. Rules for investment firms related to capital requirements are simplified, additional flexibility regarding the payment of variable incomes, new notification and reporting obligations are introduced depending on the classification of the company itself. So the smaller ones have fewer obligations and more liberals, greater work opportunities and all that we have. In fact, the objective of these amendments is to ensure equal conditions for the whole of the EU, which then guarantees this unique and effective prudential supervision, while retaining compliance costs under control and ensuring that there is actually a sufficient amount of capital to cover the risks of the investment companies themselves. So there's a number of exceptions when we look at those classifications that I've mentioned --/incomprehensible -- two we have one, two, three, so also this third one has less regulatory requirements and operating costs. Of course, a series of these other changes in administrative discharges. And now why are we doing this? First of all, we're doing this because we're bound to do this. This is where the debate is now being held, and many times it is well used, so what we take is good, and then we want to show that we are our own and we are independent. So, we can't choose the rules of the game and what we like to accept when we talk about the distinguished representative Peric said that to the EUR 680 million Solidarity Fund for Zagreb, another EUR 300 million for Petrinja or Sisak-Moslavina County and the rest of the county, so plus.../incomprehensible/... recovery plus all these measures that we have received and the mechanisms and resources that we have at our disposal not to talk about the multiannual financial framework. Now that's good, we'll keep it quiet, we'll take it we might still be incompetent if we don't take it anymore but on the other hand, the rules of the game where we're bound to go in and let's show ourselves that we're going in our own way. It doesn't work like that. So, when it comes to these examples of some taxation, we know where we can be independent, where.../incomprehensible/... the right to be independent, and this example through various opinions we are actively involved in certain adoption of different regulations at European level only through the Council of Ministers, through the European and the Council, through the Commission, and by the Parliament itself, where we are represented through our representatives. So we have influence mechanisms, we have agreement mechanisms, and it's definitely going on. So it's not like we don't have what they come here to transpose, to introduce it means that it's just these opinions that were mentioned earlier about.../incomprehensible/... so they happened behind this particular thing and we took our views. Now someone's at a level they might like or don't like but generally it's the concept of what we're doing here. So, this one sovereignty that might be forced here by such a consequence is absolutely contained and we absolutely have the opportunity to say something. As far as I'm concerned, I didn't mention just compared to the two readings, we don't have any significant differences, smaller language corrections and nomotechnical corrections, especially with regard to provisions or objections from the Committee on Law, so that's the difference between the two readings themselves. As far as the debate itself is concerned, it is my view that this is the same on the basis of the debates that have been discussed so far about a broader concept of the financial markets of America, Europe, our financial and technological societies, which is not so specific about these changes and additions, so that there could not be any particular comment here, but the Honorable representative Lalovec has just cited this comparison of the regulation of the capital market between Europe and the United States where we are, where they, in this part of what we belong and how we are just approaching as the EU. He also touched increased interest-related savings, of course that by investing in certain securities or funds, investments are much higher than those on savings where we will get to the part where they will become negative, so that it will cost more money somewhere than you will get for it. It also highlighted a story that is at EU level, which through various provisions and regulations, is related through various provisions and regulations related to cryptoimics and crypts and trading of certain teams, etc. Tokens as it takes place, as it is regulated, which is not yet arranged, of course, and related to how it now exists as a cryptacurrency, but not as a means of payment, but we see these very possibilities of trade and exchange offices, and there we have had this conference of this Fintech jell, as it would say, this Fintech conference on June 18th exactly where the actors gathered around it and where he also quoted the distinguished representative himself, just some statements that were made there. So it is certainly something we must follow and remain at EU level for regulation. He also apostrophe and faster growth than real growth, I don't know if he meant that... As for our very growth of GDP, the protection mechanism, he absolutely mentioned the huge growth of digital currencies that I am now referring to as one sure form of the financial market that is much more present than we think. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Honorable representative Bilek has been apostrophe of some of the major amendments and additions to the directive, as regards the powers, risks, administrative discharges or electronic data delivery, the withdrawal of trade in shares in which it is arranged and how small shareholders and the reduction of other burdens are protected. Dear Representative Peric has also reintroduced us for why we are doing this through the implementation of the directives themselves, in which way it has an impact on... investment companies, prudential requirements and the framework itself that goes, and only, part of the story that, around the single initial capital and the whole, the whole market. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The esteemed representative Peovic first and foremost has been troubled by the data on which I am presenting something here, so I would not only have told you MPs and MPs but also the public that I, in preparation for this debate, went to the sites of, say, the HANFAs where they issue certain, certain indicators on the state of the capital market of funds, insurance companies etc. And then when I'm talking about this trend, then I'm talking about, say, 2018, 2019, traffic only if we're looking at a total of 2.85 billion, and then 2.99, and then 2020. 3.13 billion euros in traffic, yes, that is, obviously, growing and that is the trend of which, of course, we are talking about when we talk about market capitalisation, so the value of all the listed shares traded on the stock market, which was at the time 230, about 239 billion, today I also mentioned something above 262 billion around 38% of GDP. We're here somewhere a little bit alone. Let's just say the environment is even better. As far as these are concerned, these comparisons are, of course, always quite, very ungrateful. Surely there is, I would have apostrophyd, let's say, the Czech Republic is far ahead, in some segments of Poland, but we are at the level of Slovenia and others better than Slovakia, and so the other countries that joined the EU in 2005 which we can somehow compare to them, so let's say, some golden environment, but with a good, good team, which I mentioned trend. As far as this is concerned, as far as data analysis is concerned, I am telling you here, once again, we are transposing directives related to the regulation itself, so this is not some new invention that we now don't know what we want to do, we want to ensure that something that has happened that is good, that it goes towards protecting investors, to increasing opportunities and activities on the financial market and reducing risks. That's the point of what it is. There's a lot of it. Yeah, it's an extremely regulated market, not for no reason. Once you're burned, you're burned, I'm sorry, this one you're sure to pirate in cold, and it's just a lot of times already in these changes and supplements that we've had in the last few years we can testify that it's going in that direction to keep checking all possible mechanisms. Do you see any efficiency? Well, efficiency is seen in lack of problems. So if we have unique and rehabilitation mechanisms and risk and role insurance and that we have a stable financial market in the last few years without some major earthquakes, that means that certain regulatory mechanisms allow it, and that is precisely why this efficiency has not been seen and it was not good that we can measure it somehow differently in terms of having something bad. So as long as it's good, it means things are working, but that doesn't mean you need to relax. Also, with regard to some proposals for progressive income taxation mechanisms, there is now no topic, the subject of this, of what is called the amendment and addition of these laws. Of course, once you've raised the threshold for entering those income tax shears, you can't further free them with any subsequent changes and you've released them. So, today, if you would raise me a personal deduction from 4,000 to 6,000 kunas, then the next time we discuss it, they'd say, and you're not doing anything for those who have 6, you can't do something twice when you're not taxing it anymore. So, on the other hand, as it grows, and only the economy can ask the question of the fairness of such a way of taxation that someone pays nothing, and someone pays extra, so whether the state is equal to everyone and to each of its citizens, and that principle of proportionality should also be taken into account when we talk about such types of taxation. Of course, I'm not personally into, for designed no extra taxes yet, though. Here's the thing, I think I've been through more and more important things since the debate. I would also just like to refer to the amendment tabled which is of nomotechnical nature and amendments of the HDZ Representatives Club which I propose not to propose or propose but we will accept and accept. I think I've covered everything that's been in the debates, and I thank you for the debate, and I suggest you accept the same amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55134	We have several replicas of the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55135	The Honorable Secretary of the Law is able to read the fact that there is a very large role here and authorised auditors and, of course, the Agency again, and the Croatian Investment Agency, so I think it is extremely important to stress that this agency and good staff are qualified and that these staffs are really quality and that they can report to the Ministry later and that they can actually be controlled for what they actually do in these funds. Is my question really about the revenue or the charge of the budget? Do you, on the basis of your data that you've been doing so far, have any knowledge of how much revenue from investments could grow in the next period?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55136	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55137	Thank you. As far as this proposal is concerned, for better quality personnel, this is certainly the subject of this kind of thing. There must always be a possibility for better, better-quality staff, greater pay opportunities. Of course, I would just say that they're even as an agency and when we look at them as an independent agency and ourselves and let's say the CNB in a much better position than just the ministry. So we should look a little bit at the ministry itself as one of the important factors in that whole, whole story, and it might agree that there's certainly a lot of space. As far as budgeting is concerned, of course, that we monitor the income and expenditure side of the budget daily, both by fiscalisation and by direct charge and that one of the segments is sure to see how certain there is the growth of some investments, especially if we look at the very part of the construction sector and that I can say that we are conservatively at a good, well-level given what we could have been on.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55138	The next replica of the respected MP, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55139	There's a lot to replicate right now, but I'll just stick to a few things. So you said in progressive taxation, you can't if you've already secured someone's tax benefits again, so we've had five reforms so-called. Maric's tax reform, all in favour of the richest. It's really a pretty clear line, we've got practically.../incomprehensible/... so everybody pays the same thing. You also said you know where we can be on our own, and where not, it means that compared to those regulations that come from the EU, there are many of them, you said that's what I mean because we need these risks to be aware of the minimum, but the crises show that no matter how regulatory they are not only with us, but in general there are always new crises so that you can't guarantee that their investments will be secured. So that's not true. Besides, when you say we were, we can't take something, we can't take something, we can be autonomous and we create a policy in the EU and we need to be independent and respond to those directives in the way that suits us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55140	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55141	So very quickly, as far as income tax is concerned, I didn't have to, for example, understand, because it was going by raising a personal deduction and a series of possibilities for non-taxable supplements exactly encourage those who have the least. So they too were exempt from all further taxation. As far as this part of European regulation is concerned, here we are specifically talking about regulating the financial market for investment or the capital market. So, even when we talk about some risks, then we need to know that the crisis that was in 2008 has just been a crisis of the financial sector and it has led us to the overall economic crisis. Now he wants it out of the way. The other crises that we now have on health care, the health type, they don't have an effect on the capital market, but they didn't come out. We must be careful here not to produce crises from the financial sector ever again. And that's the point of this whole thing. As for this one now, here's the answer I don't get.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55142	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55143	My dear fellow secretary of state about what you were saying about the crypts. Since this market is not yet regulated, I am interested in whether or not it is working and when some shifts in this segment can be expected to be expected to be regulated in view of the fact that our citizens are getting more and more concerned with what has become and very easily available, but also with what you have mentioned there are certain crypts that are really in one market, which are relatively new and serious annual revenues, but are also hiring more and more workers, so I think it is very important for something new, which is modern and not only modern, but it is very likely in the future to be regulated as soon as possible and to lay some good foundations for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55144	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55145	Here I thank you, so on the table is the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the markets of cryptoimics and amendments to the EU Directives, meaning popular.../incomprehensible/...is if we are to literally translate so it has not yet agreed during the German Presidency, or during Portuguese, we now expect that this compromise solution is likely to be tried. There are certain compromise texts but Germany and then another 5 members invested certain, they came out of that silent approval of a particular mechanism. So, first of all, the point of finding appropriate mechanisms to prevent and mitigate the wide use of these tokens related to the property of the so-called so-called property. .../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... that is, this trade in crypts. So that's something that's safe on the table, that's being discussed, that we're taking part in right through those opinions when it comes here, be sure that we've already given our opinion about it. So it's not just that we're coming We don't know what's coming. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55146	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We now move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, first reading, P.Z. Number 154. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education of Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Ivica Šushak, Secretary of State. Before that, we have a request for a break from the respected representative of Marija Selak Raspoudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55149	I understand and therefore ask for a break on behalf of the Mosta Club for two minutes as you have imagined your ideal scenario, so before summer you will undetectedly push this into HS preferably before a point that gathers the public's attention such as talking about covid measures. Given the exhaustion of parliamentary deputies after the local elections, there was a strong likelihood that something like this would pass past the Croatian public's eyes. Well, the Bridge Club won't let you do anything like that. What exactly is this about? It's about putting the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education under the hands of the Ministry of Science. What does that mean more specifically? It means that we will lose an independent entity that should evaluate the work and action plan of the ministry and bring it to court. So it's your perfidious plan and he's telling you, at least how much our verbal forces here certainly won't go through. The National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education is a highly important institution that has as much human potential data available to young people coming out of the system of secondary education. It must never come into the hands of politics because it can be misused for someone's current political goals. Likewise, in order to be a sovereign and democratic state, we must have an external actor who will evaluate the work of the ministry and its action plans, and then inform the government of them. The centre was also resisted by Minister Divjak for criticising her, and now you're trying to end his independence. We won't let you do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55150	Thank you very much. Of course we'll grant you a break according to article. 293.b. We will now continue to work and I will ask Secretary of State Ivica Šushko to come to the pay phone on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. The NCVVO Act was first passed in 2004. and thus institutional preconditions were created for establishing an external evaluation of education in the Republic of Croatia. The law was passed because the educational system of the Republic of Croatia did not develop models of external evaluation of education and student achievements such as knowledge of the ability and skills and the success of educational institutions. It was precisely because of the absence of such exact indicators that it was difficult to introduce innovations in the teaching process, system management and the creation of an educated policy. For this reason, it was necessary to establish a national evaluation system in the Republic of Croatia to ensure a sound, reliable and objective evaluation of the results of the education process necessary to improve the quality of education in Croatian schools. Namely, an independent system of evaluation based on high professionalism and ethics can and should help all subjects in the educational process in the first row of students and teachers. Law-making created legal assumptions for the establishment of the NCVO, prescribed its activity and structure, and other issues necessary to carry out the activities of the external evaluation of the educational system including the organisation of the conduct of the national graduation exams. The key amendments and additions adopted by this proposal will contribute to the adjustment of the implementation of the activities and activities of the external evaluation of the education system, including the organisation and implementation of the state graduation in a more effective manner. The amendments in question will also make it possible to regulate the internal structure of the national centre itself more efficiently and to coordinate the system of the management council of the Centre with the Labour Act with regard to the worker representatives. The current provisions of the law define the founder of the centre of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of the founders are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments and additions to the law prescribes that the rights and responsibilities of the founders of the centre instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be carried out by the Ministry of Education, which shall allow for more efficient and faster implementation of the tasks of the national centre. The current law also states that at least once a year, the centre reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the HS, and since amendments to the Law propose that the rights and responsibilities of the founders of the Centre be carried out by the Ministry of Education, it is further prescribed that the Centre also reports on the results of its work alongside the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee for Education, Science and Culture of the HS. Furthermore, the amendments in question proposed that the establishment of the centre be governed by the Statute of the Centre, not by law which allows the national centre to make its structure more efficient and adapt it in the best way to carry out its activities and powers and tasks prescribed by the Law on the National Centre itself. The Centrom is managed by the Administrative Council, and since the composition of the Governing Council of the Centre has so far not been in line with the Labour, Amendments and Supplements of the NCVVO Act, the composition of the Board of Directors has been further regulated with regard to the representatives of the Workers in such a way that one member of the Board of Directors is elected as a representative of the Workers. It is also possible for the consent to be given to the Statute of the Centre by the Ministry of Science and Education, instead of the HS so far, which represents the discharge of the highest legislative body from granting consent to the statutes and represents a more efficient and faster resolution and speed of behaviour of changes in the structure. The administrative board of the Centre appointed before the entry into force of the amendments and the addition of the law shall continue to work until the end of the term of office and shall be obliged to comply with the statutes of the National Centre with the provisions of the new law within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law. The amendments and additions in question are also further governed by the provisions relating to the general conditions for the Director of the Centre in such a way as to prescribe that one of the general conditions to be met by the Director of the Centre, in place of the high level of professional training, is completed at least a graduate university study or an integrated undergraduate university study, and, as a condition of working experience with the education system or education, is added and the experience of working in science as an advantage. In addition to the Director of the Centre, the position of assistant directors necessary for the effective performance of the work of the National Centre shall be established by means of the Statute of the Centre’s assistant director and part-time director’s work. Furthermore, as no provision has been laid down so far for the exercise of the tasks of printing, packaging, distribution and return of State Graduation Exams, the amendments in question are prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to designate, on a proposal from the Minister of Education, a legal person owned by the State for the conduct of certain follow-up operations in relation to the conduct of the State Graduation Exams. The term ‘official secret’ is replaced by ‘secret information’ in accordance with the Data Securitisation Act. This allows for more adequate general act to provide for degrees of secrecy, as well as compliance with the Data Securitisation Act, in such a way as to ensure that, in accordance with the amended provision, data relating to the transactions of the prescribed law, and information on the basis of which the identity of the subjects is considered secret and in accordance with the regulations governing the confidentiality of the data. The current legal provisions stipulate that the centre cannot, without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acquire, burden or alienate real estate and other property whose value is greater than the value established by the Statute of the Centre. Therefore, amendments and additions to the law prescribe the value of the Centre's assets in such a way as to prescribe that the Director of the Centre has the right to take all legal actions on behalf of and for the account of the Centre worth up to 300,000 kuna. A provision under which the Director needs the consent of the Governing Council to take an action with a value greater than 300,000 kuna and the consent of the founders to take an action whose value is greater than 600,000 kuna and the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take an action whose value is greater than one million kuna. This would be in short lines indications concerning the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55152	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55153	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State, the esteemed Director of the National Centre. State Secretary's question for you, namely, Art. 9th century 7th of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Centre is foreseen to introduce a new position, which is the position of assistant director. Of course, the opening of each new job requires and withdraws additional funding, and therefore I ask you to explain the reasons for the introduction of this new position post, and also the justification and need of the National Centre for External Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55154	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55155	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So it's about introducing a new position as assistant director. In this case, the Assistant Director of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education has established all public agencies such as the Agency for Science and Higher Education, such as the Agency for Education and Education, such as the Agency for Professional Education. I will probably explain a little later in terms of the powers and activities and the entire work and affairs dealing with the National Centre for External Education really needed to be introduced. In fact, the issue of the formation of a horizontal and vertical institution itself was not well resolved by the existing statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55156	The next replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55157	I'll be completely unequivocal. It was a perfidious attempt to abolish an institution that supervised the work of the ministry and thus guaranteed the independence of Croatian science. In that sense, I will not ask you a question, but since it is an institution that contains in itself all the treasure of information that is at all our scientific and educational capacity when we talk about the youngest generations, I will ask you to withdraw this shameful legislative proposal in which you wish to submit to the ministry and thereby prevent its independence. Croatia's democracy is mature for an independent evaluation of science and should not be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55158	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55159	Your Honor, I am primarily obliged to correct some of the inaccuracies you made in your statement. Therefore, the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education is not worthy of the work of the Central Authority of the State Administration responsible for the affairs of science and education called the Ministry of Science and Education. The National Centre for External Evaluation of Education values the educational system at primary and secondary school level in a way that ensures permanent quality control and ensures quality in the finality of learning outcomes in acquired knowledge and skills of primary and secondary educational institutions. The issue of quality control and evaluation of the system of science is being addressed by another public institution called the Science and Higher Education Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55160	Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in which is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55161	Art. 238, so the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education that I do not present here incorrect information evaluates the implementation of action plan activities and reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HS on the results. What does that mean in practice? Let's just say, the Wild Man's reform has been evaluated by the Center. Also, in fact, de facto evaluates the key work of the Ministry, so everything I said is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55162	So it was a replica, as you yourself know, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I give you a reminder in accordance with Article. 239 The next replica of the respected representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55163	Good afternoon. Here, dear secretary, on the trail of this remark, the government has recently sent some bill proposals here to the High Representative's body, so the amendments to the laws that are going in this direction to speed up some procedures, so we've had recently the Law on Defense who skipped the Institute of Arts because it's too slow, the procedure is slow, so he gave one super power to the minister. Also, here we now end the role, not only of the Parliament, but of the government, with the excuse to slow down the procedure. So, then, will we, after that, end this entire body represented because perhaps the Assembly is actually one body that slows down and doesn't allow, is HDZ to rule quickly and efficiently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55164	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55165	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Namely, the facts they are referring to, the NCVVO Act was adopted in 2004, and the Statute of the National Centre was adopted in 2005, i.e. in 2006, since the 15th year, the NCVVO itself has arranged its own structure, a list of the titles of positions and construction jobs, with one clumsy solution that has cost the staff of the Centre itself. Due to the exceptional importance it has and the powers given to it as a central institution that values primary and secondary education, it has indeed become difficult to hire and fill up human resources in view of the structure that has not changed for 15 years. If you analyse all other institutions at national level, they have changed their basic general regulation at least once a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55166	Thank you. Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55167	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, V.D. The director, here, unfortunately for me, Bedekovic used my replica in some way, but I would say that I am glad that we have seen that with the proposal of this Law on Amendments and Amendments of the Law, there are many things in common, that workers will also have a member in the Board of Directors and that the adoption of this Law will be more effective in setting up the whole Center. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55168	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55169	Thank you very much, here, compliance with other general regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55170	The Republic has a respected representative, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55171	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I listen very carefully to your explanation. So it is certain that these new amendments to the law have decided to abolish the role of legislative authority. So in Croatia, we have the role of executive power, we have the role of legislative authority and we know exactly what the ingenuity is. So these motives, those reasons that you define at some speed, efficiency, it's been a long time, so I'm interested in a very simple answer to the question why. Why does the Parliament bother you in your work, you are, in fact, changing Parliament to the ministry. There will be some other bill and something else, so maybe we don't need the Parliament at all, so let's get rid of it, and we'll be quick, efficient and able to do whatever we want. So, one simple question, don't answer me dryly technically, why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55172	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55173	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, there is no public institution of national level with powers at national level whose basic general act is passed with the consent of the highest legislative and representative body in the Republic of Croatia. You can freely compare the analysis and the Agency for Science and Higher Education and the Agency for Education and Education, the Professional Education Agency, the Croatian Memorial and the whole range of other public institutions, which are governed by a special law and so on, let's say the statutes of the Lexicographic Institute and the status of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55174	Thank you very much. Now it's been more than three hours, which we haven't been winding out, so we're gonna take a break and see you again in 12 and 40 minutes. It's 12.25 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55175	All right, let's get back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:40 AM]] Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I open the debate first by clubs, the first Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic is in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55176	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, V.D. Director. At first, he would notice that today will enter the history of modern Croatian parliamentarianism. In fact, HS has never discussed the work of this institution, which it has known to have established. For reasons unknown to me, the letter on paper has been dead for 15 years. The sixth law, which reads Article 1. ‘The Centre for the Results of its Work shall also report to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of HS at least one time a year.’ On the other hand, in recent years, she has had the opportunity to make media insight into the activities of different directors and individuals involved in the work of the centre. Consider, among other things, the Council of the Centre on the proposal of the Minister of 2013 replaced the Director after the inspection report, which claimed, showed that there were a number of irregularities in the work, e.g. Directorial Direct Employment Contracts without a tender based so-called Recommendation and, of course, so-called professional excursions to key countries for the reform of Croatian education Australia, Jordan, Canada and the United States. In 2014, the police entered the centre’s premises on the basis of an investigation conducted by the DORH extended and replaced the person who replaced the appointed director at the head of the centre, who is suspected to have concluded without a public procurement procedure with one company of two contracts on the acquisition of shirts for the transfer of state prom test material of 719.100 kuna. Epiloge, investigations have been suspended, and as a conclusion, it is imposed, which I am not, and in fact, in the background of the whole case at all, I mention this only in the context of the public's image of the centre's work, that the principles and good Croatian education systems were not in the background, but in the human race and the wish of the then SDP minister to bring a person closer to his party structure to the head than was the previous director. What else does the public know about the work of the center? In 2014, the head of the Financial Service of the Centre was fired as an anonymous application established that she had a fake degree in the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb. Because of the procedural reasons in April this year, the court has declared the cancellation illegal in favour of its possible return to the centre also goes to the fact that an ex-employee has acquired a degree in the Faculty of Economics in Travnik in neighbouring and friendly BiH, otherwise I notice that the centre is in accordance with the law. 4th editions and certificates and testimonies. The public also remembers 2018, Director, i.e. The director of the center third in a row, now we have a potentially fourth, giving yourself orders for official travel. The purpose of the trip, so-called organization of the work center and visit to schools, place of travel Split, otherwise residence of the principal before taking office in Zagreb, time of weekend Saturday and Sunday, as is known the days of the week when schools are closed and do not work. The Epilogue, the Director at the beginning of the budgetary surveillance, returns the money to the budget with the college decision of the Governing Council to return the amount to 12 wars and, of course, does not initiate the procedure for its resolution, as it was explained it did not know that it could not go on an official trip to Split schools on Saturdays and Sundays when schools were closed. The following is also known to the public, the autumn deadline for the national prom year 2020, the group of graduates is subsequently entered points despite incorrect answers to the graduation, as claimed by the professional services of the center itself, which questioned the credibility and objectivity of the state's graduation and devalued effort and the work of more than 20,000 graduates. The epilogue is that the epilogue wasn't there, the principal wasn't resolved, later retired from the so-called. personal reasons, and persons involved in such actions also took part this year in the conduct of national graduation. Dear parents, these are just some facts about the work and humane-ethic achievements of the NGO which, among other things, the Croatian state has entrusted the implementation and permanent evaluation of the state's only graduation, not entering here into judgment of value, the only achievement of Godot so far known as the reform of the Croatian education system of state graduation as a far-reaching moment in our children's lives. What is the purpose and legal purpose of this centre, which is, in fact, because of the political motherhood of all governments of bribery, the lack of State Educational Policy, the absence of strategic synergy with the ministry and other agencies in reality, remained a preterm and human resources for people without vision, knowledge and political and professional weight. Until now, this task has been set out in Article 4, first and foremost, designing and conducting all types of tests based on national standards. In reality, he only conducts state graduations, other exams almost do not have, or their number is negligible, but as such state graduation is not at all the fruit of the clerks in the center but the valuable work of teachers and education systems that make up, correct and ultimately carry out state graduations in their home schools. The Lapidar Centre continues to carry out educational measurements, external knowledge checking, skills and other competences. Such an educational measurement has never been carried out and there is no sign of it on the web pages unless it is a state secret. Then, on the basis of evaluation analyses, further proposals to the Ministry for the Permanent Improvement of Education Quality. Such evaluational analysis the centre never did, so whatever it thought of the ministers couldn't use them. Finally, in relation to other competences and tasks which have not been achieved, this is also the organisation of a seminar for teachers in the field of evaluation, evaluation and evaluation of education. This was organized only for teachers who engaged in the correction of prom exams, for others it was not organised, so in reality teachers in the Croatian education system in their lives the centre plays a role as well as the Finnish Ministry of Education or the Slovenian Pedagogical Institute. In conclusion, regarding this cosmetic novel of the law and the minister who has multiple experience and its state secretary, clearly the problem of reviving this compromised non-performing affair, scandals, mediocrity, incompetence and indifference cannot be solved by changing the statutes but only by being rooted in the first order of staff procedures and the new vision of the Croatian state educational policy, which, of course, the government of Master Andreja Plenkovic is obsessed with maintaining the status quo and relying on a thin parliamentary interest majority cannot and does not want to implement. In order to revive this institution, it is ultimately fair to be relevant to the procedure for the adoption of the statutes whether the Director will decide in amounts of up to or more than 300,000 kuna and whether or not to have an assistant, secretaries and others, of course, with an appropriate coefficient. Therefore, because of the principle of importance and the role of this institution which has reached the bottom, due to the Croatian educational system, teachers who are daily trampled by human and professional dignity at this time to exclude the Croatian Assembly from the decision-making process, and with the ridiculous explanation of the discharge of representatives who are killing themselves from work for the Home Movement Club is unacceptable. And that fact will also determine our attitude towards this bill. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55177	Thank you very much. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Most who will be represented by Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55178	All that it is the worst institution in the world to trace what has been said by counterpart Hasanbegovic, and every state institution should be subject to critical evaluation is a very different issue. And it is to whom we want to leave that institution, whether we want to repair its activities and enable it to be independent so that it can influence as an objective observer on the processes that take place within the Ministry or we will completely abandon it to the Ministry of Science and thus lose the possibility of someone outside who will be a critic of, for example, the Wildlife School. That's our key question that we have to answer here. The second question that raises this same question is who is responsible for the numerous failures in the work of the centre, so let's say this whole case that happened with the addition of points around the state's graduation. Is it a fellow Hasanbegovic centre or is the commission appointed by the minister and who had its president responsible for these points. So that's the same question as when we're talking about the work of the center at all, which was the center itself and could be done with regard to the funds that he was getting, and in which I didn't decide. However, I will say again that I agree that we need to talk critically about every institution and so on about the work of this centre in which there have been a number of problems that are inadmissible and this may seem much, much better. However, it is necessary to see what its idea function is and how I call these legal changes to the perfids, because they come by no chance, at least that is my assessment, at the moment we are in front of the summer break and at the moment when we have a very demanding report that will be focused on all the eyes of the Croatian public, and concerning the situation with Covid. This is the change that in the imagination of the one who now put this on the agenda should have gone undetected. I believe that this must not be allowed, and I believe that the centre plays an important role in the Croatian educational process that needs to be strengthened, and therefore the Home Movement Club as well as the Mosta Club that will join it here and for other reasons will not support these changes. So, what's this about? The Centre is the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education established as a public institution implementing external evaluations in the education and education system of the Republic of Croatia. The role of the centre is to monitor and evaluate the national education system through objective and transparent external evaluation in cooperation with its stakeholders in order to define and improve the quality of education and education. The centre in its work is independent and thus independent except in conducting the national graduation exams. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education does not justify the consequence of the adoption of amendments to the laws relating to the amendment of the Article. 2. in which the words "the government of the Republic of Croatia is replaced by the words of the Ministry of Education". So it's given under the Ministry's paw, let's call it a colloquial. While it states that the adoption of amendments and the addition of laws will allow for more effective regulation of the internal structure of the centre, speed up the procedure for the establishment of consent for decisions of the Centre which require the consent of the founders, i.e. through the publication of consent to the Statute and its amendments and additions, as they say will also represent the discharge of the highest body of the executive or legislative authority, it is unclear to coordinate the discharge and powers. So if there was a burden and it's a question of how we're sending these legal changes at all, we need an empirical or descriptive route and we can confirm it to the indicators, we can't just say it like that and then send legal changes. With this change, and this is a key message that I want to send from this pay phone, the centre is losing its independence because its work will be supervised exclusively by the Ministry of Science and Education, which will have an impact on education on the willingness of the political option that is in power. The role of the center loses its meaning because it is an art. The 6th current law requires that the Centre report on the results of its work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. In addition, the Centre is obliged to notify the public in due time of its activities in accordance with the provisions of the Statute of the Centre. Let's see now to clarify all the ambiguities that should look like an ideal flow of information in the system of science and education. The government brings and sets national goals in education. The Ministry of Science and Education is the holder of an educational policy that develops an action plan to achieve national objectives in cooperation with national agencies. Then the national agencies of the competent ministry who carry out the activities of the action plan and then the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education that evaluates the implementation of the action plan and report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the results and thus the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, have a clear insight into the validity of the education policy of the Ministry of Science and Education and the success or failure of that policy and make decisions based on objective indicators. To repeat, the centre, for example, evaluated the school for the life of Minister Divjak. We know what educational efforts are ahead of us, and we know that we have learned from this "Wild" reform, how important it is that at least some institution can take a critical official look at it. Another thing that is much less known to the public and is extremely important and where the role of this center is underestimated. The National Centre for External Evaluation of Education has data on human potential, so young people coming out of the system of secondary education. So far, as an independent body, he has had the capacity to make sure that these data are used exclusively for the purpose of improving the system and could defend them against abuse and possible exploitation of individual political options. If he loses independence, the path to possible manipulations of valuable data is opened. It is important to note that it needs positive personal data protection regulations and scientific ethical codes. The loss of the centre's independence in this regard shows a recurrence of Croatian society and political elites that have no maturity and courage to have an independent body that will evaluate education policies. I repeat, here is not a question of how bad the radio center is, what we also need to talk about, but the question is whether we have the courage and political will to preserve its independence for all future educational interventions that are ahead and that independence is not only important to evaluate the various political projections of certain science ministers that have so far largely cost us, such as the Wildlife School, but also the question that there is one system that contains all the information about our young minds. Imagine tomorrow that someone should come or may be in this political position today so that they can manipulate these data and direct their political action on the basis of them. It is something too valuable to remain in political or political hands and be at the mercy of the current government. The National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education must remain an independent institution, and in this sense we from the Mosta Club are strongly resisting this, I will repeat, a perfided attempt to change it at this political moment in a way that comes under the hands of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55179	It is now in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, Mr. Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55180	Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. Here, I'll start with quite concrete remarks on the proposed text of the law on amendments and additions to this law. We don't see for a start what the point is at first. 5. Namely, art. The 6th Fundamental Law states that the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education on its Work reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Culture at least once a year. Now. The 5th law on amendments and additions extends this sentence with the ministry, so from now on, at least once a year, the Ministry, government and parliamentary committee will report to the National Centre for External Evaluation on their work. Now it would be really interesting to hear why this redundancy and whether or not it's going to happen. a report to the ministry differing from a government report? Why would it be necessary to write two reports or type the same address twice in the hope that the address is the same, of course? In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 6th is stated that consent to In the first paragraph, in the assessment of the situation and the description of the issues covered by this law, the reasons for the discharge of the assembly are given. That doesn't seem very convincing, it can't be seen that giving consent to the statute would be any particular burden of assembly. And also somewhere in the explanation it says that the measure, namely that consent to the statutes is given by the government instead of parliament, would contribute to efficiency in the work of the centre. Again, we don't see how that would contribute to efficiency. Art. 8. The selection of one member of the Board of Directors of the Centre of Workers shall be determined. We welcome that, it's a alignment with the Labour Act, that's what we welcome. And I'm going to take this opportunity to remind myself that that's exactly what we need to do in the Law on the Education and Education Agency, exactly the same thing. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 9th of this Act on Amendments and Supplements is now being introduced into the basic law, which actually introduces a new workplace into the center, which is the job of assistant director. Something's already been said about that. However, in an explanation, the text that we have received in the light of the legal text says it is necessary and that is all. To say that this is necessary does not sound like an explanation, no argument is given to justify the introduction of such a new position or such a new job. If we are now giving the director an assistant, so if a new person is employed and it is highly positioned then it would be necessary to explain the reasons or therefore there was an increase in the scope of the director’s affairs or if there was an increase in the activity of the institution, whether new departments were established and whatnot. Without this, so as it says now, it's not clear that the center wouldn't have enough employees to do the jobs it's doing. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 10th restrictions are introduced with regard to the availability of You can't see a principle where these limits are established. I will mention only in concrete terms that up to 300,000 kuna are therefore given power to the Director, and then over that amount until again, some of the following borders require the consent of the Governing Council, etc., in fact it is not seen that a certain amount is 300,000. In any case, he seems too big and our opinion is that this amount should be reduced. However, what I wanted to say to this particular occasion right now, especially now when this law on amendments and amendments to the law is also proposed, and then, of course, when it is proposed to bring the statutes into line at the end and end of the humane strengthening process, so what I was going to say is that, in fact, right now, it is time to reconfirm one key issue, and it is not only from the authority of the centre, or from its own detour, but it is from the title, which is the question of external evaluation. We are still in the strategy of education and education which HS, therefore, I stress, brought back in 2014. Realising that Croatia is the only one of the EU countries that has not built a quality assurance system in schools. We have some information about learning outcomes which, of course, comes from, of, of the state's graduation, but it's not, it's not that function. And of course we have some more information from various international programs, like, for example. The PISA program, but that's as I've already said, it's an import product, we don't have our own authentic own system of external evaluation educational institutions. However, when the strategy was adopted and, therefore, when the strategies prescribed a measure called external evaluation of educational education institutions was actually the centre of work and in 2015 the working group for the development of external evaluation models of educational institutions was established and the pilot project was created and the model was created, 30 pilot schools were selected, the whole process was started, it seemed in a quite good direction, but in 2018, the project was asked to stop without valid explanations, at least that explanation was never presented to the public, and let alone be justified, so without any valid explanation, and with an unclear announcement that the project would possibly continue, but without external associates, the project was never continued, never continued, nor replaced by any equivalent. And it's completely unclear why we gave up, why this institution gave up on this project, which is absolutely strategically important for our education system because building such a mechanism should actually be the main role of the centre, the main activity of the centre because, because, because improving the quality of education is in reality the main role of the centre. Unfortunately, this is now gone and the centre's activities are mostly only for prom. And here, for example. and yesterday, and yesterday in the thematic debate of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture dedicated to the crisis of mathematics and science in schools, especially in primary schools, the centre was neither present physically nor metaphysically. Now that we are changing the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and, consequently, the Statute of the Centre needs to be changed, I think it is time for the centre to approach the reaffirmation and reflection of the realisation and its primary task, namely improving the quality of education. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55181	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Vice-President Sabina Vosovac will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55182	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Officer of Directors Mr. Filipović, colleagues and colleagues. The National Centre for External Evaluation of Education was established in 2004. here at HS Consensus. Consensually, the decision was made that Croatia must take a serious and strategic approach, if it wants quality education, and some kind of quality assurance, but also on that day it started to develop a model for developing an external evaluation of education not only of student achievements, I will say so, or if you want educational outcomes but also of the initial idea when it started with the establishment of this institution was that the external values of educational institutions were too. One of the most important products in these, products under quotes or achievements, however you like, these last 15 years. She was and most famous was the State's graduation. State graduation, which on the one hand, is a quality assurance system, but on the other hand when we talk about ensuring quality and external evaluation of secondary education, but on the other hand, and one strong anti-corruption mechanism that was introduced at that time when we are talking about the flow and abandoning pretercial education and the accession to higher education. However, the initial idea of this law was much, much wider, which is that the centre also starts to carry out scientific research work in the field of educational measurement and external examination of knowledge, skills and other competences. It also organises international examinations and international comparative analyses in education. We know that the national centre together with our associates is an unforgivable factor when we talk about the conduct of the PISA research or TIMSS research through which we receive some external inputs, highways, but also what about the quality of education, with the educational outcomes of our students, which is basically what in secondary schools when we talk about different levels of literacy. But also all this data collection should not only be a purpose but should actually be directed to the founder, in this case to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if you want the HS and the Ministry of Science and Education, in order to get out of all of this together, from all these analyses, because the state prom is a sort of external evaluation or measurement, in order to learn certain lessons and to improve the quality assurance system. Because our system isn't bad, but unfortunately it's not as it can be, and we're not pulling the maximum of the human potential we have, which is then reflected today in schools, tomorrow in society. And now a man would expect that today after 15. When we first change this law that we have some kind of clearer vision of what we actually want through this law. Unfortunately, this has not happened, but I am not surprised because if in the past few years we have actually derivated and rejected the strategy of education, science and technology, if one minister took from that strategy from the curricula reform as in the shopping centre only what suits her, and the other has completely rejected, if, in the past few years, this HS, on a proposal from the Ministry and that same minister, has given up the licensing, which is the same kind of external evaluation of both teachers and teachers and professional associates and directors, so what are we talking about more then? Then I really don't find this surprising. Why am I saying this? The importance of this agency, or the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, is one of the key, as well as in the higher education of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. They are the key to quality assurance. In the AZVO, we know that, it is done between the other and through the accreditation system. But it never occurred to anyone that in these 10-year AZVOs in the whole story the founders of the Republic of Croatia, or HS. I'm going to remind you, founder and one and another center, I'm pulling a deliberate parallel right between these two, this institution, not among some other agencies that we have a lot of, we have the Education and Education Agency, vocational education, mobility of the EU programme, heart carnet, etc., these two apostrophem, they have to be independent and they're the only ones who can guarantee quality assurance today. It didn't occur to anyone to say, "Look, we won't now, we won't hand over powers, no, it's still there, and the government is in charge." And not only does the Administrative Council of the Agency for Science and Higher Education appoint this Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament. Through this law we will now bring this National Centre for External Education to a level of others I will say both specialized important but slightly different agencies such as the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, the Mobility and EU Programmes Agency and the Education and Education Agency. We will say ok, all duties, rights transferred to the Ministry of Science and Education. Here it is justified to change the structure of the Governing Council to comply with the Labour Act, I remind you that you have not yet done so at the Education and Education Agency there you still do not have a board of representatives, representatives of workers. But what's not right to say ok now is the consent to the statute goes to the ministry, well done in other, other agencies even in the AZVO can understand that. However, somehow you get the impression you say the need to amend this law because of the easier functioning of the national centre and you are calling for an internal structure to be prescribed now by the statute that there is no need to be prescribed by law. Okay, but neither did this law hinder you in its Article 7(3), in addition to what is said to be the establishment of a general service, a research and development department, an information computer department, in paragraph 3 clearly states that the Statute of the Centre may set up other departments or services other than those referred to in paragraph 2. So no one has prevented this time or prevented you from setting up an internal structure differently without changing the law. So that can't be why you have to go to the amendments to this law. Thirdly, the assistant director of the centre, so I don't know, it also gives some impression that it is urgent for us to change this law now to resolve the crisis in the NCRVO after leaving the director caused by the crisis, or by giving points to a few students, which led them to a more favourable position than others, but not only that, for the first time, she threw herself into two key postulates of state graduations, which are, in fact, her objectivity and credibility. That's inadmissible. And now we have a crisis, we have an executive of Mr. Filipovic's duties, which the government appointed on May 5th and did not call the basis of the Law on Institutions within 30 days of the competition for the new director, did not, she called a few days later, broke the law. That's not good. The assistant director has other facilities, if it's something that's gonna save the center I don't know, but come on, it can go that way. However, it is unacceptable for a centre as much as I have been a representative since 2015 in this Croatian Assembly and a member of the Education Committee to violate, in fact, Article 6 which says that the national centre must report its work at least 1 yearly between the other and our committee in charge. It's not at all, it's not good. And now that we're talking about terms for the principal. For which reason we have not yet received that answer, with those strictly prescribed conditions in more than all agencies the type is required ten years, at least ten years of experience in the education system here is added and science. And I have nothing against science, but well said colleague Lugaric can be a completely certain field of science that has nothing to do with the system of education and education. I hope that this item is not because the law is written for someone who at the moment is a desirable candidate for a new director, and cannot be chosen just because it is not blessed by law because this competition that is under way can be annulled or that no one is answering or I don't know what. I'm smoking cold, I hope it's not. And when we talk about the availability of funds interestingly in this law unlike any other law that regulates other agencies everywhere are the powers of directors and board of directors, here no, there is no speech at all. However, one authority is prescribed, the power to dispose of the property and is said to be able to own the value of the property from 300 to 500,000 kuna afterwards from 500 to 3 million kuna, and after 3 million kuna, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What's the difference between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the founders, that's my first question if it's the founder of the Republic of Croatia and the government is in the system. And second, where's the board of directors? I know that even in much smaller institutions of education in schools you can't have financial assets in one section, in one segment without the consent of the board of directors. Here everything is transferred to one section of the principal, then to the ministry, and then we go to the government, why, where the administrative council is skipped and why, after the director, immediately, the ministry. I'll end up with this, there's a lot more to it, but what I've said to all these doubts isn't enough to support the law in the first reading, I hope it will make some changes to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55183	Mrs. Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj will speak on behalf of the Croatian National Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55184	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, the Honored Fellows and colleagues are before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. The importance of the legislator is to further strengthen institutions by autonomously regulating their internal structure in the future. The Centre for External Evaluation as a public institution implementing evolution in the education system of the Republic of Croatia through tests of fundamental standards based on national standards also fulfils an important scientific research function in the field of educational measurement and external evaluation. With its current activities, especially in the field of organisation and implementation of the State's most ambitious and complex project of external evaluation of secondary education, the institutions have fully justified their function. Autonomy, self-sustainability and strengthening of the centre's position are especially in light of the daily challenges facing the Croatian education system. And also to preserve the reputation the institution enjoys in regional and international frameworks. These challenges must certainly include digital integration between educational institutions, the development and application of different applications that seek to improve the process of national graduation and the adaptation of continuing materials of online teaching. The involvement of the centre in international research projects confirms their leadership role in promoting fundamental educational values and implementing international educational standards in our country. In addition to its professional role in objective and impartial evaluation and results and outcomes of the learning process, the centre also achieves a wider social mission aimed at detecting and preventing current social problems. In that sense, I must also commend the public-based fact that the centre has joined the global campaign for 16 days of activists against violence against women. Since these legislative changes in the future will contribute more effectively to the introduction of innovations in the teaching process, more economical system management and more objective education policy creation and evaluation of the results of the education process, the HNS Club and independent representatives will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55185	Thank you. Ms. Vesna Bedekovic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55186	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, acting Director of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, Honored counterparts and colleagues. Here, as has already been said several times and highlighted, the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education was first adopted in 2004 and here we have some now 15, 16 years and time is somehow that in some ways I would say look back on the work of this important body and then here are the changes proposed in the first reading, for me indeed necessary here after more than 15 years of work of the centre. I'll just go through some changes a little bit, although they've already been talked about several times, but I'll say here's a reminder that Article 1. 4. The law, that it is actually prescribed in the existing law its activity and structure and all the questions necessary to carry out the activities of the centre, i.e. for the external evaluation of education, and in accordance with paragraph 4 of that same article, is listed a list of all the tasks that the centre performs, I will only list some of the following, planning of the strategy and methodology of carrying out tests and external evaluations and education, what is important, carrying out scientific and research work in the field of educational measurements, or measuring in the system of education and education and external examination of knowledge, skills and other competences, building the basis of tasks, designing tests, testing materials, publication of test catalogues, working materials, manuals for the preparation of exams, organisation and conducting of all types of tests based on national standards, including, including of course, national graduation and a series of other important tasks and activities which the centre is now not reading them all, can be seen in the existing law. Why am I stressing that? It is precisely because I would like to stress that the law was adopted in 2004 at the time in the education and education system of the Republic of Croatia without any developed models of external evaluation of student achievements or knowledge, skills and, of course, both the effectiveness and effectiveness of educational and educational institutions, and precisely because of the absence of these exact indicators, the introduction of innovations into the teaching process and general management of the system and ultimately, and the creation of an educational policy when it comes to the introduction and management of the quality system. And of course, at that time it was necessary and necessary to establish a national system of evaluation and education in the Republic of Croatia which, of course, provided a valid, reliable and objective evaluation of the results of the education process, was necessary, whether and necessary to improve the quality of Croatian schools and, of course, that it was very important for me to stress the fact that exactly the independent system of evaluation based on high professionalism and ethics and can and should help all subjects in the education process, and in particular students and teachers and of course that the adoption of this law created institutional preconditions for the establishment of external evaluation of education in the Republic and certainly the objective of these changes proposed today in the first reading is above all, to enable more effective regulation of the internal establishment of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, so adapt it to the moment and the present and the future and thus to facilitate its effectiveness, and therefore, what is important, to bring together with the law centre of law to the point of the point of view of the law in which we would change to the moment and the law in which we would be in which we would be in which we would be able to the law, in time. What may and may be the question itself has raised at the outset of the proposing representatives, why the introduction of a new position or the introduction of an assistant director, of course, when we return to the beginning of all these activities with which the centre deals, and I have listed only some in view of the time available, will then become clear, and then, compared with the other agencies of this rank, it is an important place of assistant director and, of course, his enquiries for performing his work will be arranged by the statute of the centre and if I am well informed of the employment of that one assistant director is not planned until 2022. where the funds for the implementation of this employment will be provided within the limits of the total expenditure of the Ministry of Science and Education. What is very important here to propose that the Centre on the Results of its Work report except the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture of the HS and indeed agree with all those colleagues and colleagues who in their discussions highlighted this because unfortunately the fact is that since I am in the Assembly and since I am chairman of the Committee, unfortunately we have not had on our agenda and on the benches any report on the work of the NCVO and here I am telling the Ministry and the National Centre that this must no longer happen in the future and that the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture must be fully aware of the way the Centre works and of all activities that are at the centre of events and, of course, of all those activities and measures that focus primarily on improving the thinking on improving quality management systems at all levels. When it comes to reminding us that we have the first association of the NCVO State Graduation, which is here today, we have discussed on the board the 12th time, the 12th year in order, has actually been implemented, but the quality and quality management system in education other than the external evaluation of student knowledge, competence or outcome implies and different segments, especially those related to national exams, especially those related to the quality management system in our educational educational institutions which I unfortunately do not have to date and we do not have an authentic model except when it comes to the system of science and higher education and all of those activities related to accreditation and accreditation, so external evaluation that works and implements is the Agency for Science and Higher Education. And in this sense, indeed, in the future, it is necessary to closely monitor the work of the NGO, valorize its work and, in particular, think carefully about building a whole system of quality management when it comes to the education system in the Republic of Croatia, because I believe that in the last 15 years unfortunately we have not done enough, we could have done more. But here is the time ahead, and I want to believe that in the years ahead of us, the quality management system will be improved and, of course, it will play its important role not only of the NCVO but also of our Agency for Science and Higher Education, the Agency for Education and Education, the Agency for Professional Education, Mobility, etc., so each of them within their own work. And, of course, on that trail, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NCVVO Act in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55187	Thank you. Mr. Vladimir Bilek will speak in front of the National Minority Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55188	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since we are talking first of all about education, and today there have been some words about schooling here and in breaks etc. Let me look at two things first. One of these is something you listen to in the media these days, it's the quality of the model education model by model A for members of national minorities, so all those who talk about it, and don't know much and talk about segregation or anything else, I invite you to come to Daruvar to visit the Czech Republic Jan Amos Komenski who next year celebrates the 100th anniversary of their work, to see how quality education is conducted in both language and letter of national minorities where both children representatives and Croatians and other nationalities come to school, etc. Just like the DV Ferde Mravenca, who is 95 years old next year or OS Josip Ružičko Czech elementary school in Končanica, which I think is one of the unique models or ways where in the Czech primary school there are Croatian departments where really co-existence, not only co-existence but literally the common life of all citizens in the area and the municipality, all children who go to a school that literally bilingually some things do mean both prosperity and quality not only education but quality education and construction or construction of our children themselves. As for other things I would like to mention, it is done that soon here is approved and the IPO comes to us on Thursday Mrs Ursula von der Leyen in the Republic of Croatia, of course and the Ministry of Science has a large part and participation in the IPO where power will withdraw certain funds. I would just like to warn of an operational programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its part and for the Czech and Slovak national minorities where there is also a student home in Daruvar, which is also, we need to put the ministry in a network of homes so that it can be done as quickly and as quality as possible because the documentation for this home is ready. Like the Herzegovec Hall, which unfortunately stands unfinished, I think a lot of things could be achieved from this part to give our children quality education and education. However, to go back to this Act, to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the NCVVO Act, where here it has been, for the past 17 years, it has shown the importance of the HS decision, which, at the meeting of 15 October and in 2004, adopted a law by which an external evaluation of the education system, including the organisation of the implementation of the State Graduation, is ensured in the Republic of Croatia. This act created institutional preconditions for establishing an external evaluation of education in the Republic of Croatia itself. Thus, a valid, reliable and objective evaluation of the results of the education process was ensured, which is necessary to improve the quality of education in all Croatian schools. This Proposal amends and amends the law, deletes the current arrangement of the internal structure of the law and provides for the arrangement of the internal structure by the Statute of the Centre, allowing the Centre itself to form its internal structure. This enables the Centre to adapt its internal structure based on day-to-day experience in order to best perform tasks under its jurisdiction. The proposal for this Law and amendments and additions to the Law also introduces the position of assistant director of the Centre which so far did not exist and prescribes that the conditions for performing the work of assistant directors and part-round of his work are governed by the Statute of the Centre, which is here, and by a colleague before me, and we have heard about that part before. But here, I am pleased that by harmonising with the Labour Act, these amendments and additions, one member of the Board of Directors is elected from the ranks of workers, which gives additional quality in the relations between the Governing Council and the workers of all at the Centre itself. Based on the work of the Centre so far, some procedures have slowed down its work, so it is proposed that the consent to the Statute of the Centre, instead of the Ministry of Science and Education, will improve and speed up certain things, and that the adoption of the proposed law will allow for more effective arrangement of the internal structure of the Centre, speed up the procedure for the establishment of consent for decisions of the Centre which require the consent of the founders, i.e. the establishment of the Statute and its amendments and additions, which will also represent the dispensation of the highest body of the executive, i.e. the legislative authority. In view of all of the above, here, the National Minority Representatives Club will support these amendments and additions to the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55189	We're moving on to individual debates. No, another club one, club reps, yeah. The Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS and Mrs. Mariana Puljak. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55190	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. As part of the Ministry of Education and Education, as many as 12 institutions are tasked with monitoring, evaluating and developing the system and implementing the programme. These are, here are the lists, the Agency for Education and Education, the Agency for Professional Education, the Agency for Science and Higher Education, the Agency for Mobility of the EU Programme, the National Institute for Intellectual Property of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Croatian Academy Research Network-CARNET, the Lexicographic Institute Miroslav Krleža, the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education, which we are talking about today; the Croatian Foundation for Science and the University Account Centre of the University of Zagreb or the Heart. One of the above institutions is NCVVO. The question arises whether such a number of institutions are needed or if some of them could be united to achieve better integration, easier changes in information between individual stakeholders and more meaningful spending of taxpayers' money. The following activities are listed on the Centre's pages. Therefore, the Centre conducts studies to assess the national standards of student educational achievements, so state graduation tests, national tests and other external evaluation tests, conduct international research in education, e.g. A letter, a TIMSS, etc.; draws up a bank of tasks, analyses and statistical analyses and publishes the results of the tests carried out, develops and publishes test catalogues, manuals for preparing and conducting tests, on the basis of evaluation analyses, provides proposals to the Ministry of Permanent Quality Improvement, conducts external evaluation of experimental programmes, prepares models for external evaluation of educational and educational institutions, licensing, certification of professional qualifications, organises seminars for external partners, deals with scientific and research work in the field of educational measurement of external knowledge, skills of other competences and performs other tasks relating to the conduct of state graduation exams, national tests and other external evaluation tests. In its work so far, the Centre has not fully carried out the tasks set out in the activity description. State prom loses credibility and importance from year to year. There are more and more colleges showing up that allow enrolment without a prior obligation to be a state graduate. More and more colleges are conducting an entrance exam, more and more colleges are introducing zero colleges because new students are unable to follow the prescribed program after their graduation and enrolment. As a result, it becomes a questionable initial purpose of state graduation which should have been a confirmation of the completion of secondary education and the verification that should have replaced the entrance exams. Therefore, the following activity, the construction of a bank or a base or repository of a task has never been carried out. As part of international research, our students reach below average results year by year. Nothing seems to change that trend. The external evaluation of the experimental program The School of Life has not been implemented in a systematic and adequate manner, and regardless of the results of the research, it has been decided to move into its implementation. The introduction of a small graduation never came to life and these changes came after the great affair that occurred in the spring and rocked this center, so here it is mentioned, let's remember 13 students, after the complaint in the opinion of the expert bodies, had to drop exams from English and German to graduation, and the coordinator for mathematics and members of the commission appointed by Minister Radovan Fuchs gave them additional points, which is why some of them passed the exams. The same happened on an essay from Croatia, and the epilogue is that the principal resigned, the new director Vinko Filipovic was appointed who "by-d-way" comes from "The School Book", which is interesting later on because of some other links. In order for the centre to carry out its activities in an appropriate manner, it is necessary to analyse and take appropriate steps to restore the credibility of the state's graduation. Prom should not be self-inflicted but instead of its primary tasks should be an indicator of the necessary improvements in the system, it should be done to raise the quality of the graduation in order to disappear the need for additional admission exams at individual universities. In addition to national graduations, national tests should be carried out more frequently in accordance with the national examinations model document as early as 2018. Education and Science and Technology Strategy 2014 states that systematic monitoring and implementation of expected learning outcomes during the educational process in primary and secondary schools, the provision of useful data to schools on the results of their students, the quality and effectiveness of national education, the systematic work on the development of mission repositories in accordance with the outcomes of their curricula, the gradual introduction of a small graduation modeled at national prom, and the detailed evaluation of the project "The School of Life". In this law, whether it has already been said about some amendments, some of them whether it is to support it, to comply with the Labour Act, and some of the amendments are questionable or not, some are inadmissible, so it is proposed that the rights and responsibilities of the founders are no longer carried out by the government but by the Ministry of Education. Why? Also administrative, the statutes of the centre will, in fact, be brought by the administrative council with the agreement of the ministry, not as it has been so far, HS. The plan is also to delete the whole article. The 8th Law, so far prescribed by all departments and departments, which are all services and departments established in the center. That explains with the claim that it complicated whether the whole process. It shall also be introduced as assistant director without any explanation except that it is necessary to carry out operations effectively. Also so far, the centre could not, without the government's consent, burden or alienate the property and other assets whose value is greater than the value established by the centre's statutes, which was therefore a value greater than, therefore, changed, so it allows the principal to deal with values of more than 300,000 kuna from now on. The conclusion here, the external evaluation is the basis on which education policies are built in Europe and the world by measuring the quality of education with the output results of standardised tests, which consist of certain independent bodies as the centre should be. In Croatia, external evaluation is carried out in the form of state graduation at the end of 4 years of secondary education, national exams during compulsory schooling, and external evaluations at international level such as PISA tests. However, the long way to implement external evaluation and implementation of results is to improve the learning and teaching process. The results at our students' graduation are not satisfactory, they have passed teaching years, for example. The most common score at the physics graduation was grades 1 and 2. We have been lagging behind in the PISA tests for years, and it is hard to tell at all which of these powerful agencies and institutions are particularly concerned about improving the quality of teaching. The implementation of external evaluation loses its purpose unless it is used to systematically raise the quality of education, school, and especially teachers play an important role. Teachers should be treated as partners not as executioners of simple administrative tasks. Education is not a constant that we can leave to ourselves by counting on the enthusiasm and goodwill of the individual. Today our entire system rests precisely on the enthusiasm and goodwill of teachers and teachers, and it is the main tool for obtaining capable and motivated young people and for this reason must not be left to the intruding of bureaucracy. We need to ask ourselves if we want to create a series of exam courses from our school or if we want to help our students to get to know themselves and make the most of their talents, thus making their contribution to creating a more advanced, fairer and more successful society and state. So, as I said, some of these amendments to the law are to support, but a lot, so we have a lot of questions and a lot of things that we can't possibly support, which we think we're going to, to go towards the system stopping being what its basic task is, and that's why this center is an independent institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55191	Thank you. Now we're really moving on to individual debates and she's Mrs. First. Maria Selak Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55192	There are those more experienced politicians, those who know something about how the system works and who may even think deeply about when it's the right time to time the release of certain legal changes into circulation. I believe that one such politician and current minister of science and education, if because of nothing else, then because of the fact that this is not his first term, he could learn something and not have followed it when the parliamentary representatives reacted intensively to certain points, when it was a time of silence and when things could go away as if they hadn't even happened. Unfortunately, the moment in which we are currently in place, which is just ahead of Parliament's holiday and given all today's events where on the one hand we are talking about HRT policy which is an extremely important topic, about the rights of the Croats in BiH, which is our main foreign interest, about Covid and all the measures that follow it as much as it burdens our citizens, so of course that one point that sounds at the same time, and about the National Centre for Foreign Valuation if not now, surely now is the best opportunity to pass as if it has happened as unfortunately we do, and by the amount of interest it has caused us here in the assembly. That's really bad. The system's always got holes, but we can't let those holes get used. We are currently in a situation where we need to send a unique message if we want to be those who are fighting for independent supervision, and thus also the independence of science and education in Croatia. And this is that those institutions that have predisposition that can be better used to evaluate some processes in the education system remain independent. So it's no accident that these legal changes are going right now and it's also not an accident that we're not responding to the extent to which we should react. We have talked about many other additional contents here and they need to be discussed, about everything that the centre does specifically and how it has worked so far. Of course it can all be much better. In addition, I am personally and critical of some evaluation systems such as the PISA system because it comes from a single market perspective and has no right at all to be key in determining a mechanism that will create and direct educational processes because it has not been given a mandate. Therefore, this should be led to a wider debate and at the level of the Croatian Parliament because it is currently someone who is actually looking at how to direct future workers and what can be simplified to use from which country in terms of our market competences as a key player in society and to assess how educationally capable we are and to direct even worse and even more important our educational competences in the future. It is a tool that can be exploitable, but cannot be taken just for granted, nor can it be the only one that will create a direction in which our education policy will move. These are all important topics, I believe, and I hope that we will continue to discuss them within some other points, but here I only want to repeat one thing. And this is that the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education has its function within the system of science and education, which is that after the Government which directs the Action Plan towards the Ministry, which comes to the national agencies carrying out its activities, it can evaluate the implementation of the action plan and then report both to the Government and to the Assembly, thereby sending a key message as to how successful the activities they have approved have been. Therefore, we must not allow this amendment to Article 2 of this Law to allow this centre to fall exclusively under the Ministry. And we should all ask ourselves seriously, given that we have not been given clear reasons within this legislative proposal why the ministry wants it and what the ultimate outcome of such policies will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55193	Thank you. The first replica, Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55194	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues Selak Rasdic, any reform or any attempt to make the situation better in our educational institutions lasted about how long the child’s ice cream lasted. Since 2006 from HNOS and the School of Life of this or that, so let me know what you think the Ministry is after with these changes. What the ministry ultimately wants as such, is whether it's clear to you or still things stay in the air like with everything that's been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55195	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55196	Someone may ask such a question in view of our strategic plan, given the plan of resilience and recovery and all the money that will soon be poured into the education system from Europe, perhaps someone and this type of institution that can monitor in terms of the evaluation they have done for the Wildlife's reform will be disturbed by some kind of bursting of their own educational ideas, their political conduct now that these money sits in their account. So big money will come from Europe, it will be able to dispose of them more than ever before, given how embarrassingly little we have singled out for science and such institutions that can interfere with their own voluntary spending of money according to someone's political idea are a rock of interference. Obviously that's why they want to move.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55197	Thank you. Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55198	Thank you very much. Your colleague Selak Rasudiæ said that the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education is an important institution and that is not really my replica, but a complete agreement with you. Personally, if I had to choose to merge some agencies tomorrow for the purpose of rationalising costs or better functionality, the last one I would choose or would not be allowed to shut down is the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and the Agency in Science and Higher Education. And their actual weight and functionality are similar. So, in some ways, ensuring quality amongst other things through external evaluation and what I said on behalf of the club, it never occurred to anyone to rule over the government and the Croatian Parliament in the structure and jurisdiction of the AZVO. So there continue to be even members of the board of directors elected by the Croatian Parliament, the duties and rights of founders have been established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, why the opposite is working with the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, I don't know, there may be reasons why you mentioned in controlling the resources and processes that follow us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55199	Thank you. The replica basically means agreeing if... Here you go, answer me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Selak Rasdic: Why is he in a hurry...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55200	Excuse me. Why is he in a hurry and why right now? [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] And we know we got big money coming in. So these things have to be connected in some way, you don't have to be genius to guess what it's about. Let us remember that this centre was disturbed by Minister Divjak for the same reasons and even someone who is an impartial observer, if he sees how the centre has worked so far in terms of jurisdiction and who should have controlled him and what is now being offered, he can't smell this story. So, no more government, no more parliaments, and no more center powers that he had, but suddenly the ministry is coming, and you know what the story with the Ministry of Science and Education has been like so far, it's not good. Educational visions rarely accepted any criticism, any minister, we had problems with violent implementations and invasions into our systems. So this is something where everyone who cared about education that is a key political and social resource In the state, you need to think carefully about whether or not they'll allow it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55201	Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55202	Here's dear colleague Selak Rasudiæ, how you're commenting that since the founding of 2004, this centre has not submitted a report to the Assembly Committee or Parliament today, so all these years, the centre is actually working illegally, and we're all going over it together. Here's a report to the Parliament, they're on their websites giving an annual report and you can find it there, but here in front of the Parliament never brought it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55203	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55204	Bad and unfortunately common practice when we talk about numerous institutions in Croatia. So those who need to report, do not give them and those who need to give them within a regular period, either once a year or once a half-year when talking about European funds, exceed those deadlines independently of the legal provisions without any sanctions. It is a bad practice and it should be corrected because the Croatian Parliament can help the centre better direct its action through constructive criticism. The good work of the centre as an independent institution and the Croatian Parliament is also given the diversity of the voices heard about it, something close to it, should be our common task but it can only be done if we focus on strengthening and correcting its independence and its action in relation to us rather than criticising it into the hands of the ministry that will destroy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55205	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mrs. Mariana Puljak's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55206	Thank you, Chairman. Now, in these five minutes, I'm just going to mention a few things that I'm not about to show on behalf of the club, which I actually wanted to point out as some bad things in the work of this center over the past period. Therefore, the amendments state that important procedures with the work of the centre, exclude the role of the Parliament with the reason that the Parliament is slowing down the procedure, in fact everything can be hidden again in the halls of the Ministry of Education. In the past few years, the centre has marked various affairs and it is truly unacceptable that such an institution corresponds exclusively to the Minister and the Croatian Parliament. If you remember 2014, during the Secretary of State's Office, doubts were reported about the illegality of business in the waste of the centre from illegal payment through fictitious student contracts, unlawfully implemented public procurement, high costs of renting space, etc., a total of more than 11 million kuna were disputed. In 2021, the staff of the centre illegally paid their fees for the graduation of 2017, the fees amounted to 75 000 gross. The Minister of Justice Malenica replied that there is no legal basis for paying earnings for success at work until a regulation is adopted to define the criteria for determining the above average results of the work and the way in which the income is paid. What is particularly interesting about this supplement is the fact that graduation actually performs schools, schools, coordinators and teachers, largely parallel to the duration of teaching in recent weeks but they are never rewarded for the successful implementation of graduation and their responsibility is extremely large. The position of the state graduate coordinator at school is the safest and no one wants it. For successful graduation, we also have to thank the students, these are people who sit for 12 hours a few days and here and here in rooms without air conditioning, in the heat of the past two weeks, for example in Velesheim, for their job of correcting tests are paid and here, for Croatian language 33 kn gross per test, mathematics 27 kn gross, English 28, physics 24 gross and so for years. So the exams are complex, the assessment conditions are still bad and without the graders there would be no outcome. The last two affairs show that not everyone is exactly equal because some are more equal. So, last year's scandal, which I already mentioned by adding points to the political commission's order, without consulting experts. A year before, in 2019, the centre was called for the protection of students' personal data to protect the identity of a school whose vast majority of graduates apparently cheated on their graduation exams. So they canceled their exams, and gave them a special deadline under the same conditions, so they gave them a second chance, instead of sanctions for the most obvious form of cheating at the State Graduation. So, based on that cheating, they passed the exams, went to college, and one day they went to Osijek for a doctorate with the other mortals. So I finally wanted to comment on this need to introduce the Deputy Director. It is particularly interesting because schools are prohibited from additional employment, and they are in a desperate need for normal teaching. The Centre needs an assistant director with probably a generous salary coefficient, and at the same time because of the ridiculous salary coefficient of the school, they can't find any teachers of mathematics, information and physics that we talked about yesterday on the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55207	The replica of Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55208	Dear colleagues of Pulak as regards the implementation of the State Graduation, I absolutely agree with you to congratulate and honor the work of all the professors and other actors involved in it. This is an extremely demanding process for both students and there must be no failures. However, we should also address the culprits for them and see if it really is the centre itself or whether it is a commission that has its president and appointed by the minister who has been completely excluded from the whole malfeasance story. What bothers me most about this center is that people don't think they're aware of how important it is because it has inside it information about our entire potential in terms of the educational competences of all generations to come. If it comes into political hands, the possibilities of manipulation are unsuspecting. From guidance in education systems to manipulation, etc. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55209	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55210	I couldn't agree more with you. As I said, the results of the state's graduation are becoming more and more devastating, the results and our children on the PISA tests are more vulnerable, and no one is actually carrying any responsibility, nor is it analysed, nor are we proposing any measures to fix this situation. And I absolutely agree with you here if a center like this that should be independent comes into the hands of politics is actually very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55211	And in the end Mrs. Voter also replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55212	Thank you very much. You have said something that may have cast a little shadow on the management of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and Ministry Management from 2012 to 2015. You mentioned a sailor who's one of the creators of state graduation but that's irrelevant at this point. Since 2013, the then director Goran Sirovatka has been removed, 2 criminal charges have been filed, 1 of the new director Maja Jukic, and the second of the new board of directors appointed by the government of Zoran Milanovic. 2 criminal charges in which, for the period 2001 to 2013, it actually turns out that more than half a million kunas were spent on official travels, that the opposite of the Labour Act was employed, that budget money was being misused, and that's all I'd like to say here is that it wouldn't be because from your statements, I don't know any idea that actually there was corruption created there at the time. And in fact, that principal fought against the corruption she inherited there. [[Thank you very much.]] And the fact that the sailor was in some kind of reconnaissance It's something else. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time, time Mrs. Voter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55213	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55214	Okay, thank you for the clarification, so I said during the Secretary of State's Attorney's Office it was conducted.../incomprehensible... but it was carried out, so you were right to conduct research on the actions and on the actions that had happened before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55215	Thank you very much. You don't have a replica anymore. And now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the closing statement will be issued by State Secretary Ivica Sušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would briefly like to point out some inaccuracies and inaccuracies that have been made through a debate that I have carefully listened to and recorded. In particular, when it comes to the examination of competitions for the Director or Director of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, he is called upon within the legal period prescribed by the Law on Institutions, which is within 30 days of the appointment of the acting director of a public institution. And this same competition can be seen is published on the website of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, as well as in the National Journal of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the proposal to establish and introduce a new position as assistant director, I mentioned in the opening presentation that all public institutions of the national level to which the founder of the Republic and whose founding rights are exercised by either the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whether the Ministry of Science and Education have established jobs or positions of assistants or deputy directors despite the fact that almost 1,500 primary and secondary directors do not have assistants. What's this about? Namely, the start of action and work of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education as a central national institution for quality control of the educational system in the Republic of Croatia during the term of office of the first Director was carried out the procedure of testing national tests as well as the process of self-evaluation of primary and secondary schools in the field of the Republic of Croatia. And from then until last year, we didn't have jobs on one of the two core jobs, fundamental powers, core activities, which are quality-setting based on national standards or translated famous national exams. Last year we had, last school year we had a test national survey in the case of geography, and according to information or report submitted by the director's office to the board of directors, and the basis of public communication for the next school year, national exams are announced for the system of education at the level of primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia. having regard to the fact that a reform of curricula for primary and secondary schools has been carried out, and given that national graduation is only one of the evaluation segments of the following school year, two graduates will be held. First one test state graduation, and then after that, a complete state graduation that will have mixed elements of the old curricula and new curricula and curricula curricula. When we talk about the formation of a national centre, unfortunately ours has not been changed to this day by a fundamental general act of a public institution called the Statute of the National Centre and the need for activity is not adjusted. So, at the very beginning of the work of the institution, an act was adopted on the establishment, that is to say, a basic regulation has been passed, and up to this day almost 15 years, and 17 years since the adoption of the Law on the Centre, we have not changed the structure of the Centre, and this is not an honor to us, regardless of which government it was. On the other hand, you mentioned a well-known representative of Glasovac, during the Minister of the Sea, that in the letter of the Ministry of Science and Education or in the archives of the Ministry of Science and Education, a version of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the NCVVO containing a good part of the elements of the existing proposal for legal text was drawn up. The NGO almost had no good conditions for working throughout this time because they had no hierarchical structure such as other public institutions in the field of education and education, in the field of science and education in all public services, starting from culture to health. The NCVVO had a blocked structure, we need to know that there was a major depletion of the NCVVO personnel precisely because of this blocked structure where you had illogically prescribed conditions for auxiliary and technical not less valuable administrative affairs such as the affairs of the accounting chief, lawyers and secretary of the institution, so we have examples that the Peko Agency for the hire of workers was taking on the fundamental activities of the national centre itself, such as the job of a secretary or a lawyer who regulates the strictly demanding external evaluation and education procedures. NCVVO is a jewel in terms of quality control and evaluation in basic education in primary and secondary schools. To the truth, and this should be clearly and aloud said, evaluation and education matters do not run the national centre itself that there are no valuable teachers in secondary schools and teachers, teachers and teachers in primary schools would not be possible to conduct a state graduate who plays a double role in the Republic of Croatia. It is primarily an element of the completion of secondary education and education, but a criterion for enrolment at public high schools. In this regard, I must say that it is incorrect for the students to enroll in the university or obtain the status of a student without having passed the State Graduation Exam, because the RH Rectoral Assembly and all public university rectors have signed an agreement with the NCVO to evaluate knowledge, skills, learning outcomes for the purposes of all public universities in the Republic of Croatia. I'd stop here Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55217	Thank you. You have replicas, the first replica of Mrs. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55218	The part of the amendments we consider justified concerns what is related to the Statute of the Centre which really needs to be strengthened so that it can edit its own institution. However, the part that I find completely unwarranted and against which I have strongly stood up is that the centre should come completely under the ministry's jurisdiction and de facto dominate its independence. I hope you'll be able to comply with the amendments on that trail. My question goes towards something else, here, repeatedly criticising the work of the centre mentioned the case of adding points to the state's graduations, and it highlighted the centre as the only culprit for the failure. So what I'm asking you here is, is this failure to be blamed solely by the centre or is it more specific about a committee appointed by the minister and headed by the same committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55219	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55220	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So the answer to your question is complex and multiple. Namely, the generator of all the problems that have taken place with regard to the autumn deadline of the State Graduation for the school year 2019/20 is the rule of state graduation by Minister Blaženka Divjak, who has not addressed the issue of access to the second degree or the question of how to resolve the objection. It has been established that in the national centre alone, the failures of the co-ordinators concerned which did not provide a three-member review committee, and you yourself know that in the system of science and higher education there are always three members of the evaluation committees and criteria, and on the other hand, incorrect and counter-regular responses were given to the applicants themselves. On the third hand, representatives of the National Commission Centre proposed this way of resolution, and then it was in the commission itself, and then the commission accepted the opinion that the representatives of the National Centre know best how to deal with the procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55222	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State. I will refer to that part of your final presentation in which you spoke of the national centre as "a national jewel of quality of education". What I am particularly pleased with is the fact that you mentioned that a truly state prom would be impossible, almost impossible to implement without the pawning of a large number of our valuable professors, coordinators who have done not only these but also the last 12 state graduates a great deal. And so once again I use the occasion and I here from the Parliament to give thanks to all our valuable professors and coordinators. However, national prom is just one of the elements of external evaluation, and I am particularly pleased that you pointed out and announced national exams at primary school level already next year and already next year two national graduates, the first with elements existing and the second with innovations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55223	Thanks, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55224	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Definitely, according to the announcements of the Head of the Director's duties, materials have been prepared, re-scheduled with national exams, definitely for the harmonisation and unification of the conditions for the evaluation of education at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia. As the state prom provided equal chances and equal positions regardless of all these problems that occurred in this 11 and now 12th year, it is, the exams are completed on 30 June, but the results have not yet been published, so the national exams also need to determine this issue of epidemics or floods of excellent assessments etc. and that the criteria in both Dubrovnik and Pula and Vukovar and Osijek are identical for our primary and high school students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55225	And at the end of the day, It's a replica voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55226	Dear Secretary of State, you said that a similar regulation with many similar elements was built during the time of the Secretary of the Navy. I know that because I've been assigned as assistant minister among other things and for this system. If that bill had been good for us, he would have seen the light of day, he wouldn't have remained a drawer, so you wanted to point out that I'm now in some kind of a breakup because we were doing a bill that we're criticizing today. No, he stayed in the drawer, where he belongs because he wasn't good, and it would never occur to us to defuse the government and the council to give ourselves a little more authority. But what's even more important is you haven't answered me two questions. First, why do you extend the conditions for a person to have a 10-year experience not only in education but in science? And secondly, why is no authority or office of director or board of directors prescribed except for these available financial assets? And why is there no board of directors anywhere when we talk about the powers of possession? That's three key questions I'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55227	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55228	Thank you very much, there were two, and now there are three, all right. I'm going to try it like that Trogirn and the rabbit, try to carefully respond to this distinguished representative. So this is about the next one. Why is it going on, the first question was, why is it going to the supplement or the advantage of having candidates who have sciences. So I believe that you know that since you were involved at various times by the Minister of the Sea that the National Centre for External Education Education is a scientific organisation is listed in the Register of Legal Scientists, which is run by the competent ministry or register. On the third hand, the national centre has over 10 employees who have an academic degree of doctoral science and an internal scientific research unit. It would be really illogical if the leader were the one who manages and the system of science within the framework that has no contact with science, but what experience in the field of education is definitely. Furthermore, the issue of the role of the Governing Council at its disposal with assets and values of up to 300,000 kuna, from 300,000 kuna to 600,000 kuna, is decided by the Administrative Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55229	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. You don't have any more replicas, I'll close the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, most likely next Thursday. We are going to the following item of the agenda: - Report on the effects of the implementation of the measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease outbreak caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 16 January to 31 May 2021. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the conclusions of the HS adopted at its 4th session of 4 December 2020. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Health Minister, Mr. Willy Berosh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55232	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Based on the conclusion of the HS report three times a year on the effects of the implementation of the measures laid down in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease outbreak caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia, I am using this opportunity to address you on behalf of the Government and to inform you of the effects of the implementation of those measures for the period from 16 January to 31 May 2021. The report includes continued and united government activities, the Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia, state bodies, units of regional and local self-government and legal entities with public authority. With the synergy of these measures and procedures, we were focused on a fundamental objective, protection of public health and public health in the area of the Republic of Croatia due to this epidemic. After an intense second wave of epidemics affecting Europe, which reached its maximum in Croatia in December 2020. followed a period of minor intensity that lasted until the start of the third wave which began in Croatia in late February and early March 2021. The implementation and effects of public protection measures against Covid-19 are explained and supported in the report, and include the preparation and responses of the health system in relation to the epidemiological situation including reorganisation and emergency response, changes in the number of patients and hospitalised but also care about the continuity of business in normal activities and the provision of health care and not covid patients. Hospital and medical institutions have continuously adapted to the current epidemiological situation during the overall duration of the Covid-19 disease epidemic by organising their work in accordance with the needs to treat newly ill Covid-19 but also with other patients, urgent, priority and oncological in order to provide hospital and health care uninterruptedly. The number of beds in primary-respiratory intensive centres was adjusted according to the number of patients from 1539 whom we had on 1 January to 836 on 31 May 2021. The largest number of people hospitalized was on April 26, 2021 when 2315 of our fellow citizens were hospitalized. We had 930 respirators available for COVID patients, of which 373 in primary respiratory intensive centres. The continued activities provided for the required number of healthcare and non-healthy workers and their temporary schedule, re-scheduled 1544 workers, 582 doctors and 860 nurses from the home health institutions to health institutions or non-health facilities where there is a need for this. also provide the necessary medical equipment, respirators, high oxygen flow devices and extra-body membrane oxidation devices to ensure timely and optimal medical care for patients. Facts suggest that at no time has patients been deprived of optimal health care. By handling these principles, we have defined the following strategic goals that have been our idea of guidance in protecting the lives and health of the nation. It is also about continuing to carry out tests according to the given national criteria, with the same intensity as in the earlier stages of the epidemic, then carrying out surveillance and monitoring of infected persons and their contacts through the network of epidemiological teams. Key organisations and preparation for continuous supervision and monitoring of hospital facilities for the treatment of COVID-19 patients with a more severe clinical picture to achieve adequate provision of medical services, and of exceptional strategic importance, effective implementation of the vaccination process. From the acquisition and distribution of vaccines, the adaptation of information solutions for reporting to vaccination, the organisation of checkpoints and vaccination teams to the up-to-date follow-up of adverse reactions, we successfully continued the national vaccination campaign supported and local initiatives with the aim of achieving as much progress as possible in the resolution and thus the economic shift towards economic recovery and improvement. The report also contains analysis and statistical indicators as well as adverse events related to vaccination of citizens, and I would like to point out that no fatal outcomes have been reported among the adverse reactions following vaccination. In the reporting period, a detailed overview of the ordered and reserved vaccines is available. As of 31 July, a total of 8 855 554 doses and about 10 million doses of vaccine were ordered and booked by the end of 2023. 2 037 260 doses of vaccine have reached that date in the Republic of Croatia. The larger quantities have been arriving since the beginning of May 2021, and to this end an intense split of the population at organized checkpoints in all checkpoints in all counties began. Thus, on May 20, 57 180 of our fellow citizens were vaccinated within 14 hours, indicating the readiness of the health system for the administration of the vaccine. It should be pointed out that the largest number of vaccines in the city of Zagreb is 52.6% and the town of Rovinj is worth noting, which has split the record 80% of its population. These indicators speak unequivocally of a high degree of personal responsibility, however, the nat average fragmentation of certain parts of the Republic of Croatia also shows that the vaccination campaign can fall to fertile soil only if there are joint efforts and protection of personal health, the health of all our citizens, tourism and economic health Beautiful ours. Such steps for the benefit of the entire nation, we try to reach all parts of the Republic of Croatia. The volume of vaccinated workers in the health system is increasing. On today, it was vaccinated with the first dose of 81.2% and 71.9% of the second dose. The report also shows inter-resorship cooperation between all key stakeholders. Mutual communication and flexible approach are key to a modular response that depends primarily on the epidemiological situation of each individual unit of local and regional self-government. The key objective of the decision-making process is to achieve a proportionate risk level response, starting from the fact that the risk is not equal between different population groups and in different geographical areas. It is also important to highlight the inter-resorship cooperation that has resulted in the implementation of EU digital COVID certificates, necessary to facilitate the free movement of citizens during the pandemic and also to use national criteria for making tourist seasons more successful and intensifying safe tourist movements. Following the Government's decision to establish a national system for issuing the EU digital COVID certificate, on 30 May we received solid foundations for the successful cooperation of the Ministry of Health, the Agency for Commercial Activity, HZZ, HZZ and MUP. Croatia has very early confirmed its readiness and has obtained the approval of the EU Accession Commission and has been fully prepared for the introduction of the EU digital COVID certificate. Among the first EU Member States, we have started issuing the EU digital COVID certificates on vaccination, sickness and testing. This places Croatia among the EU's most advanced countries in terms of the COVID technical solution. On today, a total of 438 950 certificates were issued. Based on vaccination, they are 400 042, based on 32 955 and 5 953. Certificates are issued in different ways. By way of E-Citizens, 272 309, in HZZO facilities, 162 607 and via vaccination sites, or CESIH 4051. The approach of the tourist season also enabled public health stakeholders from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the Ministry of Culture and Media, and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs to deliver through a network of diplomatic consular offices to competent institutions in the countries of major broadcasting markets data that are credible to show that the Republic of Croatia allows tourists to stay secure in their national territory. Steps have also been taken towards the normalisation of cultural events by cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Media with HGK and the HZJZ which created the Safe Gathering Platform and presented on 5 May 2021. As in the past period, continued public information by the Civil Protection Staff, which during sensitive periods of the pandemic at the threshold of the third wave every week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday through mid-April, held press conferences on which, in addition to reporting on new epidemiological indicators, the current issue of the Covid-19 disease epidemic would be answered. Thus, the Centre of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia continued to analyse the epidemiological situation on a daily basis and, depending on the same decision that it imposed or abolished or mitigated the necessary epidemiological measures. The headquarters respected the opinion and recommendations of the county headquarters and county epidemiological services, bearing in mind the protection of human lives and health by respecting the principle of proportionality in order to minimise the functioning of the economy and other segments of social and private life. The conferences have been held once a week on Fridays, and one of the most needed tools for transparent information and communication with the public. Equally important contribution and support to the government in the fight against the coronary virus has eHealth and in this respect the official website of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for timely and accurate information on the coronary virus. Coronavirus.hr page which in May numbers 848,918 users. As regards the use of 113 during the observed period, 93.308 calls were made, a large number of questions related to vaccination itself and measures when travelling outside the Republic of Croatia and returning to the country. The 113 call centre continues to work to support the tourist season. During the reporting period, follow-up to the epidemiological situation Covid-19 was continued according to a previously established methodology. The source of official data on the number of confirmed cases in the Republic of Croatia is a platform for central registration established on the initiative of the HZZ and HZZ. A total of 350,997 cases of infection and 145,344 new cases of this disease have been reported in the report period of the Republic of Croatia. For your information, the seven-day incidence rate for the 100,000 inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia on this day is 14.9 which places us 13th in the EU. The report also explains the threat that potentially represents the spread of new variants of the EU population for which the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Prevention has offered assistance to EU Member States in order to achieve the highest sequencing rate necessary to map possible spread of new virus variants on their territory. In this respect, the report defines and illustrates the review of countries covered by specific epidemiological measures. Recent results for 188 samples sent for sequencing indicate 54.1% of samples with proven alpha variant while 43% of samples with proven Delta variant. The report shall show the effects on compulsory health insurance with associated statistical analysis. During this reporting period HZZO had additional costs related to Covid-19 for testing of 927 million 743 thousand kuna for the treatment of 931 million 270 thousand kuna. For the purchase of Covid-19 vaccines in the reporting period of 132 million 211 thousand kuna. And today, up to today, 280 million kuna for the reservation of vaccines. The sick leave for isolation and self-insulation has been worth 83 million kuna, and since the start of the epidemic of 174 million and 596 thousand kuna. The purchase of Remdesivir and oxygen therapy of 41 million and 63,000 kuna and special awards to healthcare professionals with 55 million and 705,000 kuna. Additional resources have also been provided to the Infectious Disease Clinic Dr. Fran Mihaljevic and Dubrava Clinical Hospital for the treatment of Covid-19 disease totalling 29 million kuna. The report shall also take into account the effects of the sanitary inspection, with enhanced supervision of the implementation of the safety measures prescribed by the decision on the necessary epidemiological measures to limit the gathering and introduce other necessary epidemiological measures and recommendations to prevent the transmission of this disease. To this end, 1500 controls were carried out and 212 oral solutions were issued, mainly concerning non-compliance with the prescribed conditions. The increased surveillance, action and control of the execution of issued oral solutions in the sanitary inspection of the State Inspectorate has undoubtedly contributed to the reduction of the number of deficiencies identified. The report defines indicators in the sectors of economy, tourism and sports, which are also accompanied by associated causal analyses. As part of tourism, a chronological review of the evaluation of epidemiological restrictions in catering has been adopted, and among other things it is noted that the interest and elements of the organisation of vaccination of tourist stakeholders have been highlighted. Based on the data received so far in the survey, 70% of tourism employees are interested in priority vaccination, and most of the same is realised. This data includes employees of the first and second priority groups as well as the estimated number of seasonal workers that companies will hire in the season. Since part of the tourist staff has already been vaccinated, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports has received applications from entrepreneurs and legal and physical persons in which a total of 24 000 585 persons have been additionally reported for vaccination. In the field of science and education, the report defines the importance and need of flexibility in the implementation of a safe and productive atmosphere. The ministry has made it possible for schools to choose one of the three models offered in cooperation with founders and local headquarters. It is about flexible models that could be changed or complemented at local level according to school options, epidemiological images and new results on the spread of SARS COVID-2 infection and COVID-19 disease. The report also shows the state of the labour market and insight into the disturbances caused by the closure of the part of the economy caused by the Coronation virus. The following is a reference to the effects on aid for the preservation of jobs and to the rationale of measures to prevent the rapid rise of the unemployed. Respected and respected representatives and representatives can inform you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent authorities have made solutions to the welfare of functionality in a timely and effective manner, the improvement of all systems of the Republic of Croatia with a view to protecting the life and health of the nation under the circumstances caused by the outbreak of COVID-19 disease. Following the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, it proposes the Croatian Assembly to accept this Report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55233	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. You have... The number of the replicas. [[You don't understand.]] The first replica was sought by Mr. Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55234	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, we are well aware of all the last year and a half not only Croatia, but the whole world is faced with this pandemic. Different countries have reacted in various ways to this pandemic. Some went to a complete lockdown as now goes I don't know Australia or some other country means very soon as a small number appears. Some have again denied it as Brazil, which has allowed a large number of people to get infected. I think we can say to these 360 thousand infected that even though the headquarters and the government actually responded very well and that that number means somewhere around 8% of the population in the last year and a half. But out of that number, 8 grand and 200 died. Since it appeared in the media that a slightly larger number of deaths or that an increased number was especially comparing with some other countries here I would ask you to explain perhaps this number of deaths in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55235	Thank you very much for that question. I myself asked the competent institutions to refer to the above-mentioned number. As you know yesterday, the deceased persons in the Republic of Croatia have been 8 thousand 221 since the start of the epidemic. But I am very clearly told that this is not a time when we can compare mortality between different countries. There are many reasons. Among other things, the method of recording the dead is not uniformed although there are in principle recommendations from ISDS and World Health on causes of death and it is more than obvious that all countries do not adhere to it. Therefore, there are certain parallel ways of recording the death toll. It is absolutely certain that, after this epidemic is hoped, an analysis will be required as soon as possible, which will indicate all the necessary parameters, taking into account the degree of mortality in the Republic of Croatia. However, it differs in some of our counties. It'll all have to be analyzed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55236	Mr. Hrvoje Simic. Excuse me, excuse me. Excuse me. Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55237	Dear Ministers, the fact is that Croatia is among the lower-separated countries of the European Union, so do you not consider that one of the main reasons why it is and the growing confidence of our citizens is precisely in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, particularly in the Civil Protection Staff, which is unfortunately one political body and which has made a number of political decisions rather than epidemiologically justified decisions? I'll remind you of some. The first restrictive measures were following the HDZ's internal elections. Then the opening of the borders at the time of election of the last locals without any checking. Well, the last place the head of the headquarters violated the measures that he himself prescribed, or was in a closed area of the Spaladium arena without masks. What message does the Civil Protection Staff send to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and why should citizens believe such a headquarters?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55238	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55239	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, thank you for asking. I think it's very important to share those two things. So citizens don't necessarily have to trust headquarters because it's not the headquarters that creates certain information. The headquarters forms its information on scientific and professional grounds and directs it to our citizens in the form of appeals and education. So, if we compete with the fact that 44 of our citizens who have proven illness, who have had a proven illness, one has died, isn't that enough reason to do something? Vaccination is the simplest, fastest and safest way out of this crisis. Therefore, what we are trying to communicate all the time is true, credible, professional and scientifically based information on the well-being of our citizens, and it is now seen. An incidence is observed with respect to cleavage in certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55240	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55241	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, every day we all promote vaccination, we point to the importance of vaccination. Of course we're tracking the number of vaccines. We are following the proportion of vaccines compared to the rest of the population and these statistics show that not all parts of the Republic of Croatia have joined the vaccination equally and we have individual counties that are lagging behind in percentage of the rest of the Republic of Croatia. What can be done to improve this situation, of course, in order to avoid the fourth wave of the pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55242	Thank you very much. 60 seconds isn't nearly enough to answer your very complex question. However, I will tell you that the results can only be achieved through the synergy of professional efforts and responsibilities of citizens, where this lags, we have a lower population split. Therefore, our task is to promote and promote vaccination and emphasize its advantages. And today I said there were no deaths among the 2 million 718 thousand Croatian citizens who received the vaccine. One recent analysis in America shows that of all death covids back 6 months 99.5% of people were not vaccinated. This clearly indicates that vaccination saves us from the most severe forms of this disease, as well as from the fatal outcome. What can be done? We need to change the paradigm, which we did. We have gone from the classic initial vaccination system to the public, to smaller places, and in some ways tried to reach each individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55243	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55244	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Practically from the beginning of the pandemic, especially after 2.3 months when it was seen that it would not pass in a month and two were trying to find a solution that might bring us closer to that time in which we lived until the appearance of Covida-19, of course vaccinated in the first place. But the introduction of these covid certificates is certainly something that can at least bring us closer to that time in which we were until the beginning of 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55246	Again, 60 seconds does not allow me to describe the importance of a covid certificate which is one European instrument and the insistence of all of us together to adapt and find a way of co-existence with the virus. Covid confirms to us who owns it we prove that we are somehow safe for the environment, that we are not contagious because we are either over or we are vaccinated or we are tested and that our activities including travel, grouping, visitation are safe. So we're sending a very, very clear message. If the virus continues to be among us, the whole world will have to adapt and find a way to co-life. The certificate is what unites several aspects of the fight against the virus and enables relatively safe functioning of both the economic aspect and the cultural and tourist and catering and sports and numerous others. So it's simply our way of looking for co-existence with a virus that at this point has the conjecture to be successful. However, all together must achieve a certain extent of cleavage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55247	- Mrs. Crescent. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55248	Thank you. Dear Ministers, through the media you can often hear from experts in this area how rapid antigen tests are an incomparably better solution than the PCR tests themselves, first because they are fast and second because they still need a slightly larger amount of virus to be positive. Then why does everyone insist on PCR tests, whether it's a political decision, if it is, then there's actually a public suspicion because the public knows that political decisions are often related to large capital. We also know that the PCR industry is, if not, one of the largest industries in the world. Croatia tests almost least in Europe, but it still costs us several million kunas a month.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55249	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55250	Well, congratulations on that, you got the point. I'm glad the director of HZZ is here with us. The Republic of Croatia has the view that antigen tests are usable. At this point, however, at European Commission level, this is not uniform and such a common position has not been reached. We talked about it these days, and here's a colleague state secretary can confirm it, this morning there was a meeting where we said we'd re-route a letter to the commission to put antigen tests in one, so as a test that's very, very relevant. However, we must be honest and say that its diagnostic value is somewhat limited, the PCR is still a golden standard. Therefore, we would have to keep it for situations when it is necessary to use it. And I completely agree with you that the use of antigen tests is justified and almost the same with certain elements as the use of PCR tests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55251	- Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55252	Good afternoon, Minister. Here I am interested in a uniform and no environment answering the question of what is the reason and what is the government's position on mandatory vaccination? In fact, it is the impression that the cleavage obligation is descending to lower levels, meaning entrepreneurs who have to worry about whether or not to split up because of the support, and the question is, who is responsible for the population split? Isn't there a government that needs to be responsible for the population split? What is this really an instance that should answer that question and which should stand behind this political issue and give a political answer to that question, in which way, who, how and who is responsible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55253	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55254	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. So I would first answer you that there is no level of downsizing, that it is very clear that we are all together only with the synergy of opportunities to make that step and post an adequate split. Our mission is to point out what we are not going to do. So we also point out daily professional and scientific assumptions that indicate the need for vaccination. What was in the media space is one of the government's attempts not in this sense to transfer its responsibility to another but to encourage everything, to distinguish between responsible and irresponsible. Be careful, the vaccine protects itself, protects the other, contributes to the overall range of fissure that will protect us from the spread of this disease in the future. Furthermore, it also eliminates the efforts of all of us. This di allows us 4 waves allowing the spread of the virus in the autumn may contribute to the progress of the economic crisis, possible layoffs, loss of jobs. Therefore, this is the concept of vaccination or not vaccination. And I'd tell you, I don't have time, something about mandatory vaccination... I'm not sure I'm gonna be in your debt to that question. It's very important. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55255	It's my fault we're already past time. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55256	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. So absolutely in the part where we're talking about the need for vaccination, I don't have any dilemmas, so the importance of vaccination, the importance of dividing the nation, the importance of having as much as possible, but I'm going to put it in the context of something else. So now there are many people in the media room who have decided not to vaccinate and who clearly and tell their reasons why they will not be vaccinated. One of the maybe factors that can improve this is our athletes. We had a chance to see at the European Football Championship that one of our athletes, one of our players couldn't play because he wasn't split. Our athletes go to the Olympic games that start on July 23rd in Tokyo, I've asked you several times from this place if our athletes when they go there are split. So these are the funds from the state budget, the means by which all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia help them to go there, are they all split up, and is that what the account is about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55257	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55258	The government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the HZJZ stands at the disposal of all those who are in the mood for vaccination to be vaccinated. The government of the Republic of Croatia has obtained an adequate number of vaccines that are free of charge for citizens, athletes and everyone else, it is our only chance to show interest and vaccinate. You're absolutely right when you realized that some of our athletes didn't vaccinate, but I also responsibly claim to you that all those who show interest will absolutely be vaccinated without delay. Namely, it should be said that the vaccine has enough and that it is available. We've opened the checkpoints on which people with a... call come without orders to vaccinate. In Zagreb there are three big points in other cities too, you just have to ask yourself where these checkpoints are, in which time they work and come and spend a few minutes of their time and receive that dose of your health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55259	Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55260	Dear Minister. Just to determine, so today the total cleavage in Croatia is about 37%, the split of the endangered, the most endangered categories, so over 70, 80 years somewhere around 60%, while in other European countries there may be about 90 percent, so here it is clear that the responsibility for the separation of the population is exclusively in the government, there are no associations, entrepreneurs, these, those only in the government. Today, Croatian citizens do not believe the headquarters, whatever you say you call for vaccination do not believe because of your work so far, some have already mentioned it. So, one body that's been made so far by the political decision people don't believe. How do you plan to proceed? So it seems to me that you've chosen repression and pressure instead of education and better communication, so the repression is causing spite and you're going to get even less and better, less...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55261	Thank you very much, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55262	I'd like to begin with that respected Mrs. MP if you were absolutely wrong when you said we chose the way of repression. It is we who have been stressing the need for education and an informed approach to our citizens since the beginning of this epidemic, no repression. This is a work version of a certain and idea that will likely come to life only with the idea of encouraging us to be vaccinated as much as possible. Furthermore, when we talk about this task and the responsibility of the government to obtain vaccines, we have done so. By the end of the 31.5, 8 million 855 thousand vaccines were obtained, more than enough to split the entire Croatian population. We also made it possible for the health system to vaccinate people. In one day I told you the date vaccinated over 50,000 of our fellow citizens, so the health care system can do it. But on the other hand, I said only synergy, you emphasized the government's responsibility. I'm not running away from it, but I'll also tell you that your responsibility is there, every single citizen. [[Intruder Radin: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55263	Thank you. Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55264	Dear Minister. Here's to talking about responsibility, on the other hand... Ionnidis, it's your profession you know one of the world's leading epidemiologists by profession, the most quoted scientist among top ten scientists says that the vaccinated and the over-experienced have equal efficacy, that's what he claims. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, for two hours, he gave a speech in Strasbourg on June 26th, and now I'm wondering why he's forcing people who are over covid to vaccinate who have antibodies that they are? The first question is that. The second question is, will you order child vaccination in the fall, since here is scientist Lauc today saying that everything has turned into politics, and less and less into science, it openly writes on his facebook profile and says he is completely against child vaccination? And the third question of the minister if possible briefly, German Minister Maas said if everyone was offered a vaccine no longer has any legal or political justification for any restrictions, Germany opens up, the UK Minister of Health to open, 40% is a split in Germany with both vaccines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55265	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55266	Although your colleague Capak would answer your question, but your illness is considered active immunisation, it is considered more equivalent to the first dose. However, after getting over it, you yourself testify that the antibody titre has fallen after some time. This is precisely why it is necessary to inject the so-called vaccine. a booster dose to achieve an adequate level of protection. What is now a question, and from day to day, these elements are being evaluated, how long immunity will last after the second vaccination. There are preliminary data that it will be life-long, which is not after the illness itself, so the waist said at this point that after the illness, we can consider immunity adequate within 180 days and that's how it is for you. It's not aproximative, it was measured by a titre of antibodies in the blood of patients who got over and it was seen that after six months he was falling very badly, which requires a second dose that further animates our immune system. Intruder: Thank you./... what our views will be will depend on the epidemiological situation and movements in the world. [[- Intruder Radin: Thank you. For children I will tell you that it is not a political decision exclusively based on the profession and we will see in the autumn.../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55267	Time, thank you. Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, the question of whether a small stab in the upper arm can meet high expectations is the question that many ask today and also in the Croatian Parliament. The reasons for not vaccinations are numerous, among the main ones are listed mistrust in the pharmaceutical industry, mistrust in the rule of political structure not only in Croatia but also in the whole world, fear of vaccines, false, semi-falsified information. So we didn't meet the expectation that by June 30, we'd split 55% of the population but only 45%. I would like to know if you can briefly project the consequences of non-vaccination or what effect these poor results will have in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55269	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55270	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I will repeat what I just said because I think it's very important that the public hears one more time. So, the one on the vaccine risks his health and the health of someone else's, ours. Then it doesn't contribute to that fissure that in the future, if we reach those 70%, it guarantees that the virus won't spread. Furthermore, it brings us back to the old normal and does not allow the reactivate of all activities, does not prevent us from returning to normal activities. Furthermore, it also allows the appearance of 4 waves in the fall which is of extreme importance. We need to know that the virus when it's in circulation is very often mutated. It's one of his ways of adapting and trying to survive as long as possible on the planet. If we let him, if we allow that tank to be large, and these are unvaccinated citizens of the car within that population, he mutates and can come up with even more dangerous strains that are virulent. and contagious, etc. And that's the danger that exists. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Unless we split up. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55271	Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55272	I was wondering if anyone here had an administrative Covid. It is a strain far more contagious in Croatia than the Delta strain and any other one that threatens us. It's your best chance of getting it. It's the one where you have all the physical consequences of Covid, but the system didn't recognize you as such. And it will be very easy for you, and then you won't be able to reach Covid's certificate and all the other rights that belong to you. If you have been tested with an antigen test, if you have been forgotten to enter, if you have stayed at home in self-insulation, you will have the administrative Covid the most contagious strain in Croatia. So my first question is, how long will the citizens be paying your losses? And second, given the announcement that we donate as much as 310,000 amounts of vaccines due to the inability to store them, how many excess vaccines do we currently have, what are our storage options, where do you plan to resuscitate medical waste if it is and who will be responsible for misjudged in the purchase of the vaccine?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55273	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55274	Dear Parliamentarians, I don't know about this administrative strain of the virus, and I know that this new Delta is far more dangerous and that it's spreading faster than these so far, which represents one great danger. I'd say these elements that you've instructed are in action and standing. Indeed, some patients are not enrolled, some family medical doctors were not up - to - date, and there are problems with the issue of Covid certificate. However, we correct them daily. So what the ministry could do was long ago, so at the beginning of this crisis to send a clear memo to everyone on how to act. And that letter says that all those who are positive must be entered in the central register not only because of receiving Covid, Covid's confirmation but also because of other circumstances. So there are these elements, however, that are corrected on a daily basis. Today 400 and a few thousand issued Covid passports still show that the thing works, and we will continue to correct these minor dysfunctional and difficulty. And my apologies to everyone who's had problems. due to an unscheduled activity of a particular doctor [[Intruder: Thank you.]] or a vaccineer or something. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55275	Mrs. Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers related to the number 113, it is a number that has long been in use, you mentioned it today in your presentation, but it has not yet brought it back to life with our people. Namely, that number provides a series of extraordinary information that people otherwise wander and search the Internet, search everywhere and every time and then age of any information. What else can we do that, precisely because it is now and the tourist season and these questions have a series of which they can answer, which we can still do to make that number really familiarize with people and that they really know that in that number they'll get all that information from any confirmation, any of it from the entry, whether it needs to be vaccinated, whether it's not necessary to be vaccinated, part of the people know it, but to a small part of the people I think we have places to improve that might then contribute to an increased number of vaccinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55277	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55278	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian, one of the things we can do is exactly what you've done. You mentioned that number again, which has long been established and what the government and headquarters task was to enable it. He is enabled, the number of students educated for the job under expert supervision and providing very important information. So, I also call from this place anyone who has some travel dilemma, with vaccination, with disease, with Covid, with the EU confirmation to report to that number and I believe they will get relevant information. What is somewhat surprising is that the number used during these summer months and early tourist seasons is much more so which suggests that the foreigners who come to us may, because they are not well informed, call that number, contact and ask for different data that they are interested in. It's just one of the communication channels to the public, because we think that communication and the source of information really must be transparent and spotted and true. and professionally founded. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55279	Thank you very much. Mr. Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55280	The respected ministers in the complex crown of reality have experienced a great intertwination of the profession and politics. There is no longer any knowledge of where politics is hiding behind the profession, where the profession behind politics, we have government scientific advice, so the people that the government has estimated to be professional, competent to have something to say from a scientific point of view about the situation, so we saw as well as them uglyly polarizing in public, taking completely opposite views. John Ioannidis says one thing, you say something else. It seems unclear to me that the public would have more confidence if people were told more specifically and more clearly on the basis of which scientific research was made some decisions. I'm just going to give you one little example. So based on which scientific research did you decide that whoever got over it, half a year is immune to the crown and can get Covid's confirmation within half a year, if it's been half a year and two, three days that he can't do it anymore? And do you follow up on new research and are you ready to update and extend that period?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55281	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55282	I'm going to answer Mr. Parliamentarian, and I'm going to answer this last question of yours and I'm going to say that we are absolutely ready, in accordance with new scientific and professional knowledge, to change all our views. Secondly, I don't know if you know, or I'm sure you know that in a scientific environment, conflict of opinion is nothing bad, so it's very encouraging, sometimes resulting in improving our thinking about a given subject. So I don't see the problem that some scientists had different opinions. But also, I'll tell you this, if you ask me whether to base our actions on an individual's statement, even if what he's called or the entire world's health and professional public, I don't have that dilemma. So the whole world thinks it's 180 days, that's, of course, the number that's been unproxymically found, but I said based on what. In relation to the follow-up, antibodies fall in the blood after the disease is over. No better element for monitoring your immune status And I'll tell you, although I'm not, I can't tell you anymore, but I'd like to share the same thing with you, about the importance of antibodies in the determination of antibody titres in the diagnosis of Covid disease that have been neglected in the world and in us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55283	Thank you very much. That's what I wanted to know. I'll join. - Mrs. Crescent. Rada Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55284	Mr. Minister, you also told some colleagues that for high estimation, personal responsibility is extremely important. Well, at one point, the syntagma was a professional plus personal responsibility, and at the end of the day, I mean, my colleagues were, we all have to be responsible together. My question is, however, if for days and years it has been said that institutions are mismanagement of the crisis and we have seen that this trust that we need to gain, we will not gain it because I am personally responsible, but because the institutions that govern should be more responsible. We've seen how they acted, the unequal criteria of introducing measures, poor communication, threats to sanctions that could be unconstitutional or, if nothing else, are selective, so my question is if we have to mutate the strain, can we say at some point that the body that was to be dealt with has mutated And maybe you should freshen up a bit? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55285	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55286	No, ma'am. MPs, I absolutely disagree with your findings for several reasons. So it's very clear, and from this place I said 10 minutes ago that the only synergy of the profession and the responsibility of the citizens can produce results. So that's the fact, that's what I said and that's what it stands for. So no one... Neither government nor citizens together, only synergy and this solidarity can improve results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I don't know what you're talking about, but I'll tell you that our measures were appropriate, balanced, we were more open-minded in Europe, and our extent of the infection wasn't so extreme, so I don't know what we were wrong about. And in the end, I'll tell you next. If it's not enough to tell someone that out of 44 infected persons, one deceased, I don't know what it is. I guess all those who don't get vaccinated don't get sick, they're immune to disease. Of the 44 infected, one deceased. I think that's enough from the expert. A scientific medical foundation, like an appeal to all of us to be vaccinated. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] From, Thank God, no one died from vaccination in the Republic of Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]] We record side effects, no significant side effects, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There are some local illnesses, swellings, etc., and 3 billion people in the world have been vaccinated. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55287	Mr. Secretary, uh, the subject is a little bumpy, but we need to stick to the weather. Here you go. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a baby doll.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55288	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here, the whole world has faced this pandemic, and so do we, and it seems to me somehow that if we don't vaccinate that we're going to be fighting this virus for a long time. Many of us say this is our greatest threat since the Homeland War. How do you feel about that and tell us how this threat has affected the entire health system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55289	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55290	I thank you for the question, Your Honor. Parliamentarians. Well, yes, I would say that this is an extreme threat, but besides the epidemic, the Republic of Croatia was one of the major challenges, in general, after the Homeland War, as you said yourself, and as far as the health system is concerned, this has been a financial and organisational one of the major challenges, which in all of these waves has shown, although great... his flexibility, adequately adjusted to form primarily respiratory... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The secondary centers, and everything else that contributed, as I read today in the report that no one was left without a bed, no respirator, no help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're being criticised for paying unnecessary and some medication for Covid, However, they buy them in Europe, we cannot, as a government, allow our citizens not to buy such drugs, therefore that [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We've got... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55291	- Mrs. Crescent. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, although you actually want to wash yourself off the responsibility that isn't the fissure 55% as you've announced, and I don't know what you're based on. The fact is that it keeps ringing in my ears that song, “Who is to blame?” Who's to blame for the fact that we don't have that fissure government, headquarters? Surely they're not irresponsible that you've been confusing with various contradictory information throughout this entire time. Who's to blame?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55293	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55294	Dear Madam Parliamentarians, we are not running away from responsibility. The government has obtained sufficient amounts of free vaccine. The healthcare system has allowed everyone who wants to be vaccinated to be vaccinated. Now it's something for the citizens to do. I don't want to criticize anyone. However, I will repeat the fact that at 44 infected one deceased. Aren't we afraid of that? Don't we think we can get sick? So we are absolutely not running away from responsibility, and when it comes to our goal set for the end of June it was one passing time, because when you generally do something, set yourself some goals. We're so aproximately setting ourselves a goal that seemed to be real then, and we went well. But then it was stuck not because there was no vaccine or because it was impossible to order or arrive for vaccination, but because of lack of interest. So I repeat, you don't have to trust us as politicians. Believe the facts, which is that in the Republic of Croatia of 44 infected persons is one of the deaths of this serious disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55295	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev. [[Intruder Beroš: A total of 8 thousand 221 our fellow citizen with yesterday's date.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55296	Thank you very much, Vice President. The respected ministers recently were able to read that there are large differences in fissure in the Republic of Croatia among the counties, so among the 5 counties where we have the lowest fissure are just three Dalmatians that depend on tourism. At a time when we had over 40% of the population vaccinated with the first dose in the City of Zagreb in my Sibenik-Knin County we had below 30%. What do you suggest to us what we do and how do you comment on a huge difference in fissure in the territory of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55297	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55298	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian. It is a very difficult question because it is difficult for me to understand that someone who lives on tourism does not want to do everything to allow their guest a safe stay in the Republic of Croatia and that in some way animated him to come and stay in our environment. We're not trying to do it, so the problem is bigger. What is needed is that all together and the media, and the opposition and the position to all together point out that vaccination is the only and fastest, safest way out of this crisis. Vaccination saves lives, saves the economy, saves normal functioning and brings us back to normal state functioning. I really don't understand those who don't want to be vaccinated. They don't have to trust headquarters and politicians. Let them trust the experts, the scientists. There are no days when 4 to 5 experts from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, a teacher of institutions and different doctors do not visit on our various TVs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you have recently spoken a very dangerous thesis in this assembly. I'd say citizens don't have to trust headquarters. You continue to call for the profession and the responsibility of the citizens. It would be said that you really don't feel any responsibility for the number of vacated i.e. vaccinated citizens only 43.2% of the adult population. If you really don't consider yourself responsible and if you really don't think the citizens have to believe the headquarters I think the time has come for the headquarters to resign and free up seats for some new people who will fight the epidemic better and more convincingly. And that's why I ask you once again to return to the report. You personally and headquarters to combat the epidemic where you see your responsibility and which you have failed done i.e. What happened when we didn't reach 55% of the cleavage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55300	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55301	I'd say you're a little bit of a twister and a little politicizing. No one said we were running away from responsibility. Is that what I said? Just before we said we felt responsible. ... That's what you keep saying that citizens don't listen to us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're talking just so the citizens will listen to us, to promote vaccination, to promote health. That's what we do and we won't stop doing, and we feel responsibility. This government has secured a sufficient number of free vaccines. We see some of the neighbors and other states now fighting for the rest of the vaccine. We've secured vaccination sites and we encourage citizens. But it's up to them to decide on vaccination, and we feel responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55302	I would only remind you that this only way of dialogue in the House is when it comes to replicas, replicas are a response, not a dialogue. Mr. Zeljko Reiner, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55303	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, first of all, about the trinkets of the relationship between politics and headquarters. I'd just like to remind everyone that in Italy, therefore, one of our democratically neighbouring countries has been set up by an active general of artillery precisely for organisational reasons in the first wave of the epidemic for the Chief of Staff. What do you think happened to us to react especially to that part of the public who doesn't appreciate headquarters or anything you've done anyway? But what I would point out now, and what you mentioned were Covid's receipts. Through the system of e-Citizens everyone can get from their own home literally in a few minutes with three mouse clicks on the computer and therefore again if we start to wonder for a few months why not every citizen who has been vaccinated will not be asked to take responsibility from you. We have to ask ourselves why it is not for those citizens who do not have technical conditions and access to the system e-Citizens publishing and downloading digital certificates is enabled at locations of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute everywhere. So let's not always... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55304	Mr. Rainer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55305	Thank you for asking. Well, look, I would refer to the first part of your question and your findings, and that's absolutely a profession, so the director of HZJZ is here today, and he can testify, the one who led us in all our thinking. The profession will guide us in the future, which is the answer to the question of child vaccination. I can now take the opportunity to tell you that on the basis of professional information, scientific information, the World Health Organization's position, the ISDS, we will make a decision on what and how. Of course it will depend on the epidemiological situation at the moment. Therefore, all who are now saying that the headquarters of some kind of political thinking I am determined to answer that it is not, it was only our profession that founded all our decisions, including the decision on vaccination. Based on the expert guidance and success of the vaccination research, we have decided to vaccinate and enable our citizens to obtain enough amounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55306	Thank you. There, I don't have time to answer my covid passports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55309	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here's something I'm interested in because I love statistics and I'm following what's going on. We have county-level statistics and we know how many citizens we have in our counties have been split in percentages. But when we talk about local self-government, we almost know nothing. Here we heard we don't know the City of Zagreb because I have county status over 50% and the town Rovinj 80% and that's something everyone will welcome. We have a lot of local leaders, and I think they should be used in this vaccination campaign, too, because they too got the trust of their citizens not long before 30 days ago. I'm asking you if we can get information in cities, in municipalities, so we know how many of our citizens have been vaccinated. Because here I come from the island of Rab, we have 20 thousand tourists right now, we have a good tourist season, I don't know how many citizens we say this vaccine on the island, I'd like to know, so let's use the influence and local leaders, but also each of us that this is happening because this is how the government is left alone. Here we hear one MP whose husband is mayor of a big city, I'd like to know as much as the city of Split is vaccinated, so if we know you can tell man you can solve everything, so sort out a little bit and help out, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55310	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55311	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. There are, of course, data on vacancy in the county, we'd love to, we'd be happy to deliver them to you. However, you have touched each other's important questions. HZZ has developed a plan and programme for the introduction, implementation and monitoring of vaccinations and it is completely understandable. However, the same responsibility as the government has units of local and regional self-government. Each county has its own county co-ordinator for vaccinations, has also the director of the county public health office that function according to the decentralised type. Therefore, we do not escape responsibility, as some have said, but we also stress that other units of local and regional self-government have certainly their responsibility in encouraging citizens to be vaccinated. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55312	Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55313	Dear Minister, we also heard in this debate, and before that there are different reasons why as many as 55% of the population of the Republic of Croatia are in the category of unvaccinated which you, as a headquarters and government, see you label irresponsible, not patriot, etc., I do not enter, some of the reasons we find in this mistrust that is being raised towards the headquarters, and some people, in the absence of an open debate, are the number of experts on the contrary. Now I'm interested, Mr. Capak was talking about Halmed's side effects report the other day, which is also one of the reasons, so what do you know about how many of these side effects are? It also generates mistrust, people die, stay, I don't know, in some lasting consequence, what can you say about it, how to convince and how to convince and so?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55314	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55315	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. You've touched a very important topic. Every Friday, we share information about the number of side effects. Fortunately, today, I mentioned the fatalities in the Republic of Croatia, and there are also no more serious consequences. We can prepare you a report with precisely listed all side effects, from those most common which are local illness, redness, swelling, up to some system types of increased temperature and far away, the largest number of people have such side effects. There are very few people who react to some difficult conditions. However, as far as I'm aware, in the Republic of Croatia at this point there are not too many people who have any more difficult conditions. But look, it's not just about the Republic of Croatia, as I just said, 3 billion people are on a globe of Earth vaccination, there's records being kept, we're in the 21st century, everything is available to the total range of by-products. They are minor compared to the benefits of vaccination As I said earlier, time has escaped, I wanted to say how many deaths in those who have not been vaccinated against those who have been vaccinated in America in the last six months, extremely important data. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55316	Now the question will be asked by Mrs. Bencice, and you can use any question to answer what you failed at one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55317	Thank you. Dear Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55318	Look, here you go, here you go, here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55319	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55320	Give it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55321	Dear Minister, here's the first thing I want to say on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club is that we fully support and invite citizens themselves to be vaccinated and we think it's really the most obvious way out of the actual pandemic and epidemic situation. However, of course we oppose government announcements that, for example, support would be linked to the obligation of employers to split because workers, it is their decision and employers do not actually have any mechanism to force them to do so, and the mechanisms that would force them to do so do not even want to think about it. However, what we are concerned about is the fissure of older people and older populations. I didn't find it in the report, but it's possible I didn't see it, what's the fissure on the territory of the Republic of Croatia over 65, do we have that data?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55322	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55323	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. First of all, I would really like to thank you for your attitude that vaccination is necessary, useful and the only way out of this crisis is of paramount importance. Secondly, when it comes to support, I would like to say that the Government does not intend to lower and transfer responsibility. Also, the government does not intend to collectively transfer responsibility to employers, this responsibility would be individual. So those workers who theoretically do not want to be vaccinated would be left without support, not those who contribute to the general objective. Supports are not in the pay category, support is not something that is a constitutional category, support is not something that is a liability, support is thanks to this government or a gift to citizens in crisis to preserve jobs, to preserve liquidity. It's not something that's mandatory. So the government has made a certain effort, we want to encourage everyone on the other hand to also encourage certain efforts to achieve a common goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55324	Thank you. Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55325	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I come from the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and we're not happy there with the cleavage we have. At first, the most endangered groups were vaccinated, later those who wanted it very badly and put themselves on lists, now everyone can be vaccinated. And it works pretty well in our cities, but we noticed that rural areas have a problem even getting into cities is being vaccinated. In order to get around it a little bit and help people to split up, we introduced a bus that goes from the municipality to the municipality and during the day visits 2-3 municipalities and vaccinates people exactly where they are the easiest place to get to where they live. Well, here's to maybe some other county that haven't set that up yet as an example, and they have rural areas to maybe introduce such buses, we called it a log.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55326	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55327	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, for this is one of the innovative ways of vaccination carried out in your but also in other counties. It's an epidemiologist's response to the fact that he fell at one point of great initial interest in vaccination. And at that point, we did change the paradigm, and I called both my colleague Capak and all of ours and the directors of the county public health services to turn to the community. That from the checkpoints that were previously founded either in some school halls, sports halls, health hospitals to head toward the community. That was the point. It doesn't have to be a bus, it can be the car of the county public health office, it's important to meet the citizens. And at one point we did promote it and in most counties it was accepted as an additional concept. And now I'm going to use more time without Mrs. Assembly attorney and say something that's very important. So over 65 years old is about 800,000, 300,000 a week and a half ago has not been vaccinated. And it is indeed a big problem because these citizens of ours are in some way more exposed to diseases in severe forms of disease, so it is of paramount importance that they be vaccinated as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55328	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55329	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I absolutely support the cleavage of Croatian citizens due to both health and economic conditions. Croatia could leave the crisis exclusively and pay support for jobs because we used the Schure programme, a European programme of support for jobs. That was EUR 90 billion, Croatia received a billion. Why did she get it? Because there was no vaccine at that time. Now I'm asking the question, if there are four waves or anyone else who will guarantee us tomorrow tells us you have a vaccine, you haven't been vaccinated, there may be conditions, if it can be conditioned in the future some future support to preserve jobs from the healing of citizens. Let's not forget 90 billion was when there were no vaccines, now, and that money was spent, now if 4 and 5 waves come in, the question is, can someone tell us for sure you have a vaccine, you haven't been vaccinated as you expect further support for jobs. I think we should talk about that too, because that money is no longer free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55330	Thank you very much, Mr. Assembly Attorney, you're absolutely right. First of all, thank you for the fact that you support vaccination, the only possible way out. And on the other hand you're right when we have an alternative now, we didn't have an alternative, we used to defend ourselves with epidemiological measures, wearing a mask, maintaining distance and everything else, now we have an alternative, the exit is vaccination and it's only a matter of time. In Croatia, we do not think and want to delay this moment, but European institutions are ruthless, counting, looking at their financial interests. I can tell if you haven't been vaccinated, there's no incentive. You're quite right about that, but I wouldn't look at the economic aspect as a health minister. My primary interest is the health aspect, health and lives of people. Of the 44 of our fellow citizens, one deceased of those who had Covid. It's extreme, it's terrible, it's worse than war. So you're right about financial matters, but I'm stressing this health aspect as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55331	The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55332	Dear Minister, here's one particular question that interests many. First you said you didn't need to be vaccinated if you got over the crown, then you said you needed to be vaccinated once, right, and now the story is circulating, the rumor that you need to be vaccinated twice. I've also been informed by you at the Ministry, so I'm told it doesn't matter who I tell you later that you don't know, that you don't know, but that person has been vaccinated twice to get Covid's passport. So I'm interested in whether people who got over and vaccinated once got Covid's passport because I know they didn't have it, that they didn't get it, whether they should be vaccinated twice for the sake of the EU or Covid's passport, is that medically justified? So one particular question interested in tens of thousands of people, you didn't answer that question. Could Mr. Capak possibly respond, this is, people are interested in this. People are ready to vaccinate twice, but they just don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55333	Now, thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, you have now apostrophe of the question that really exists and I will tell you in the context of an earlier debate that this is evidence that not all the decisions we make are just based on the profession. However, you must consider that this is a new disease. It has existed in the Republic of Croatia since last year since the second month, in the world a little earlier. There's been a vaccination since 12 months last year, so not full seven months. That's what we're talking about, we don't have any more scientific knowledge that's been puzzled, solid, unwavering, etc. It's just... And that's how it's gonna be. [[You don't understand.]] But how do we do it? We're doing an analysis of the current situation. So in Croatia too, we believe that overcoming is equivalent to the first dose. The second dose is enough to vacate, and we think that's enough for a man to travel to be safe and healthy. However, the European Union does not accept this. Their arguments are a little different. Our argument at the level of the European Commission, which is always complex, would have to be agreeing faster. It should be faster in the initial response to the crisis when we have long considered what and how to do instead of introducing stricter measures that we have proposed at borders. So these are questions that are open. But the answers will come to them very safely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55334	Time. Stanka, a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55335	Dear Ministers, here I will take the opportunity and this business opportunity to ask you in front of the Croatian Sovereigns Club for a 10 minute break and to ask you again a question and try to give me the answer now. So, Mate Matic from Split City asks if she will be vaccinated another time or not? It's a very important question right now. Is it if he's over, if he's over it, and he's vaccinated once, and now he needs to be vaccinated for the third time, is that three doses? Is it even harmful to him or is it not harmful to him? Okay. Now the air conditioning is not harmful, and it may not be harmful but if you have said a little before and you have said that the equivalent of the first dose is over, the equivalent of the second dose is the first vaccine then give these people a Covid passport. This man wants to travel abroad, the man was waiting for Covid's passport, he didn't get it, and now he needs to be vaccinated the second day, the second time and wait another three weeks to get a passport. Do you understand me? So there are tens of thousands of people like this. People don't know, people are waiting for an e-citizen to get Covid's passport, and they don't have it. They call the ministry, and they ask around, they look at the portals, and they don't have an answer. Here I'd like it if Mr. Capak could answer this, or you guys can use some of it anyway, I don't know how, but he's got no business options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55336	Okay. We approve of the break, but we've seen from your debate that you don't need a break. This was a question, so we will continue our business opportunities accordingly. The next replica is the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55337	Mr. Minister, your responsibility was when no vaccine was obtained at the time or when illogical decisions were made. But that's why we've filed a motion to call it off, and we've discussed it. Now, as far as I can tell, everyone who wants to be vaccinated can be vaccinated and then I wonder who we're protecting by the restrictions that are now in place? The ones who don't want to be vaccinated. I must tell you that I am no longer ready to give up my freedom for those who do not want to be vaccinated and I urge the Government of the Republic of Croatia to lift all restrictive measures as soon as all people are able to be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55338	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. All people can now be vaccinated if they show interest if they want to, that's what they're allowed to do. I want us to go back to the old ones, get the restrictions lifted. However, this will be possible when we reach a certain threshold for immunisation. You should ask those who don't want to be vaccinated why they don't want to, and why don't we, together, reach a situation where we can take off our masks, when we can hang out indefinitely at any time? It's something that's how it is. And I'll tell you next. So as I said earlier, Croatia considers getting over the first dose, the second dose complete vaccination, and as regards national criteria, we consider it sufficient. Until these days, the European Union didn't mean it until yesterday. However, it has changed its mind and since tomorrow, the day after tomorrow the disease plus one dose will be sufficient to confirm our earlier position on the regularity of the thinking of the Croatian epidemiological profession and Covid of course passport.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55339	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55340	Thank you. Dear Ministers, people would trust you a lot more if you weren't constantly providing incorrect information. During today's debate, you said we had one dead person at 44. It's an incorrect piece of information. To 44 people tested who felt the symptoms and came to test themselves we have one dead person that would be the exact information. We've got a lot more people who've gotten over it, and they haven't even answered or tested at all. So don't deceive people or the Croatian public. All the decisions you've made, and I'm the only one who's been saying that since the start of this crisis, you've been making political decisions. So we had a situation that 26.6 was open to Serbian citizens so that they could enter Croatia freely without conditions. When did my colleague Bull call you what you did? You didn't open for Bosnia and Herzegovina, you closed for Serbia. These are your double criteria, they're hypocritical decisions and it's cheating on the public and it's time to tell you in person.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55341	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55342	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian, you are completely uninformed and false. Be informed and then you will realize that the European Commission has adopted recommendations for third countries, that those countries that are green are possible entry into the Republic of Croatia and other European Union countries without restrictions. Serbia was green at that point. However, the criteria for entry into the Republic of Croatia are the same for all countries and members of the Union, and third countries, and this is the Covid passport that proves whether you are over the disease, whether you are vaccinated and whether you have a test.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55343	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nicola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55344	Dear Minister, you have violated Article 238. On the official pages of the Serbian Embassy, this data was published. You're trying to get out now. There is no reason for Croatia's entry to be completely free. In fact, you've shown that he can be free when it suits you, and that's election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55345	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This was a pure replica. You're getting a warning. Thank you, Minister. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? There isn't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first to debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club is Honored Vice President Željko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55346	Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, Mr. Minister. Respected associates. In this report, it is clear that the National Staff, the Ministry of Health and HZJZ followed the situation very carefully, took new measures to bypass us from a complete lockdown or even a curfew, which happened in many European countries. A large part of the economy thus managed to continue its business, which was also not in many countries. In countries that have been delayed by the introduction of appropriate epidemiological measures or not consistently implemented, an exponential increase in the number of cases of disease has been observed. A major public storm has raised a timely supplement to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases over the introduction of criminal sanctions. After the law was passed, whenever possible, the advantage was education, prevention, and not punishment. Staff decisions and continued inspection have contributed to preventing the spread of the disease and the gradual reduction of the number of infected, and throughout the course, the Staff has primarily taken care of the protection of citizens, while ensuring that the necessary epidemiological measures are proportionate to the objective of introducing them to minimise social life and maintain the economy. Croatia, according to the current European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, is in "green", which is very good for both the health situation and Croatia's image as a safe destination. This is especially important also because the tourist season has already begun, and we know that almost 20% of our GDP comes from tourism. However, while our numbers are still good at the moment, several local hotspots have appeared because they obviously did not respect simple epidemiological measures and recommendations. Any such negligence will be very strongly sanctioned by other countries that follow the situation and do not want their citizens to leave the country from which they could bring the disease back, and it is not possible to ignore the fact that these countries would rather spend their money in their own countries than go to other countries, including Croatia. With as few of these hotspots in us as possible, the tourist season will be better, and thus the economic and financial situation. Since the delta strain is rapidly spreading across Europe and will almost certainly become dominant in Croatia, it is most important to prevent a rapid increase in the number of newly infected. Vaccination with epidemiological measures is a key measure to achieve this. Vaccination has proved to be the most effective public health measure, which alone has contributed to the extension of the life of the population. Therefore, in the prevention of the Covida-19 epidemic, the role of vaccination will also be irreplaceable, accessible, safe and effective vaccine will play a central role in saving lives, protecting health, protecting the health system and speeding up the economy, normalising the functioning of education systems and social interactions between people. The goal of the government of the Republic of Croatia was, as we all know, to vaccinate between 50% and 55% of the adult population by the beginning of July. The maximum effort has been made, more than enough vaccines have been obtained, free vaccines, and this should be stressed because in many countries vaccination is not free of charge, and it is different species. The vaccination dynamics were good at first and then, about three weeks ago, it seemed to me, as the epidemiological picture was being repaired, began to decrease rapidly. Today, we came up with less than 45% of adult vaccinations. And from this place, we all appeal to the citizens together to split. Anyone who wants it can be vaccinated whenever they want and whatever vaccine they want. It's not like that in all countries. And let's be aware of that. We are witnessing that new infectious strains appear, here now, delta strain and each of us must do what is least necessary to save health and lives, not just our own, but to avoid the collapse of the health and economic system, probably already in the autumn. Tourism, a key economic branch for Croatia generates so many important revenues without which we will be in significant economic problems. I think we need to do everything we can to make this tourist season as long as possible. The relaxation of individuals was influenced by various marginalised groups of people who, by their public influence, spread the lie that the coronaryvirus is harmless, that it doesn't even exist, and let's remind ourselves that vaccinations have managed to completely eradicate some deadly diseases, such as polio, such as goddesses, diphtheria, a series of other diseases from which 2 to 3 million people died annually, and millions have remained disabled for life, while some have become rare and are now only in the mildest form of disease. In Croatia, at the end of the 1950s, about 550 people had suffered from severe polio disease, in order to reduce only a few cases after the introduction of the vaccination in 1961, while the latest case of diphtheria was recorded in 1974, on the other hand, only due to a weaker cleavage, an epidemic of diphtheria broke out in the countries of the former Soviet Union with 150 thousand and more than 4 thousand dead. Each of us vaccination against diphtheria, tetanus, cartilage, polio, measles, mumps, tuberculosis, hepatitis B, influenza-induced diseases type B and pneumococcal influenza. By the age of 5, children in Croatia receive 21 doses of vaccines and up to 14 of them 25. It is interesting that no reasonable layman questioned the composition of these vaccines, doubted whether they should be vaccinated against these diseases or not, so why about the Covid-19 vaccine of such suspicions, public and intense discussions of those who have nothing to do with medicine or are false, called experts, why hysteria that refuses people from vaccinations that can only protect them from the severe forms of this disease. As a doctor, I can assure everyone that the coronary virus is highly formed, doctors, nurses all over the country were at a loss of strength to treat the patients who were in the hospital in November 3,000 and with a chill in their heart looked at the severe patients on the respirators and witnessed the long-term deaths of thousands of patients with this disease. Therefore, we must not be selfish, think of people around us, those weak immunity, the old, the powerless, those with autoimmune diseases, the allergies, heart, lungs, and other organs, if we don't think of ourselves at least think of our neighbors. The pandemic caused by the coronary virus caused labour market disturbances due to the necessary closure of the part of the economy. The timely establishment of safeguard mechanisms and support for the preservation of jobs I repeat, as well as with free vaccine, is not present in many countries, and in our case, have significantly mitigated the negative consequences and prevented the rapid increase of the number of unemployed. The government's objective was to help preserve jobs to maintain a low unemployment rate and preserve the liquidity of economic operators. In the last year and a half, the government has sought to preserve jobs, allow workers to get paid, even though they could not work because of the covid pandemic, and enable employers to overcome the crisis. The government has so far singled out 11.7 billion kuna to preserve jobs, and when the contributions that have been forgiven are added, this is a total of 17 billion kuna. The measure was used by 120,000 employers who did not go bankrupt because of this, and nearly 700,000 workers who were not left on the road, and they and their families did not run out of income. It is precisely because of these measures that the number of insurance companies is now higher by more than 56,000 compared to the end of June last year, and the number of unemployed is lower by 8500 compared to March 2020. These are concrete figures, that's what's been achieved. The biggest increase in insurance is recorded in construction, IT sector, processing industry and accommodation activities. The Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments implements the government's decisions through six measures to help micro, small and medium entrepreneurship for an epidemic caused by the coronary virus. The total value of these measures from the initial €1,148 billion in March 2020 is now € 4.3 billion. All of this is invested in saving the lives and health of people on the one hand, and on the other hand preserves the economy to the extent possible. Many countries were unable to do it, they didn't know, they couldn't do it, Croatia did it. Let's all get together to get out of this health crisis that we can get out of just following epidemiological measures and vaccinations, and we'll get out of the economic crisis if we get out of a health crisis. I'm convinced that we can only do this together in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55347	The next debate is also the name of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the esteemed representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55348	Dear Minister, dear colleague Capak. The Honorable Chairman. Here tomorrow will be the 500th day as the COvid-19 appeared in the Republic of Croatia. During the night, this virus from normal turned us into a new normal. This new normal I would define as a number of restrictive measures, the loss of certain freedoms and the body that affected our daily life is exactly the Civil Protection Headquarters with numerous decisions, all in order to curb further spread of the Coronal Virus. Some of these measures were more successful, some less successful. As head of the Civil Protection Staff at the local level, I have often had a grudge against some of your measures, but I am convinced that they were all well-intentioned with the ultimate goal of curbing further spread of the virus. In the past few months, especially in the last few days, a campaign has been launched primarily by the leaders of the headquarters and the leaders of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is promoting vaccinations. That vaccination is important, in order to preserve the Croatian economy, so that the tourist season lasts as long as possible and that as many people through these appeals agree to vaccination. However, Croatia continues to be one of the weaker-vaccinated EU countries according to statistical indicators. What's the reason for that? One of the main reasons is that people in the Republic of Croatia are increasingly less trusting in institutions, and so is the Civil Protection Headquarters. Once the Civil Protection Staff at the beginning of the pandemic itself had plebiscitarian support for all citizens, today it is much smaller. What's the reason for that? So precisely because it is a political body consisting of experts, but primarily of members of a political option. This political body has often made politically motivated, not epidemiologically justified decisions, so let's just remind ourselves of some. The first decisions or restrictive measures taken were taken after the internal elections in the HDZ, until then the health of the nation was not important. On the day of the local elections, all the borders were opened, all those Croatian citizens living in the Republic of Serbia could come without a PCR vote test, without confirming that they had been over covid-19 and that day the nation's health was not important. A few days ago, I was Chief of Civil Protection's officer in violation of a measure and a decision he himself prescribed a few days ago at the Spaladium Arena in a closed space without a mask on his face. And then we wonder why people don't trust the Civil Protection Command and why the fissure is so low. The campaign included a number of ministers on the need for vaccination. Unfortunately, however, there have also been shameful statements by individual ministers such as Minister Coric, who called all those who do not want to be vaccinated by false guru. So who are you, Mr. Coric, to call Croatian citizens who have not been vaccinated with false guru. You are a minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia to work in the interests of Croatian citizens, not to insult certain groups of Croatian citizens with such statements. Prime Minister Plenkovic himself says he will seek to bind support to entrepreneurs depending on the split of employees, which is not possible under the constitution and under all existing laws and is illegal. He won't give up taxes on all those who haven't been vaccinated. A series of things are contradictory here. The only way to increase the fissure is to depolitize the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia, to get people of the second and different worldview into that headquarters, not members of one political option and finally try to return the faith of Croatian citizens to that same headquarters, then you can expect a greater fissure and better tomorrow means a health picture of the whole of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55349	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, respected representatives Petrov and Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55350	Honorable ministers, respected parliamentary deputies and MPs. Government policy is clear, countless times repeated on their part that they can protect the public only if they vaccinate everything and therefore they intend to vaccinate everything that walks and that is one of the possible legitimate decisions, but for each decision, responsibility should be taken. And the same would be if the government decided on another option, only responsibilities should not be transferred to other people who did not make decisions. And what exists today with the government is that they would vaccinate all people, but they don't want to introduce mandatory vaccination. Why? Because at that moment, all possible costs of compensation for the potential consequences are borne by them because they have made a decision of mandatory vaccination. So, to sum up, those who run the state today would like to make decisions, and responsibility for those decisions should be borne by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I mean really intelligent. They will say that vaccination is not mandatory, and then possible damage does not go to the benefit of the state, at the expense of the state, but it will bypass people that they have to be vaccinated otherwise they will not have the same rights as those that have been vaccinated. So, with confirmation you can go to the store, without confirmation you can't go to the big store. Entrepreneurs who have forced their workers to vaccinate will receive the financial support of the state, those who do not get it. So we're supposed to have a choice, but actually, if we want to live, we don't have a choice, and on the other hand, the same thing you're ruling on is how they don't introduce mandatory vaccination. Don't be angry, but I have to say, this is deeply cheating, deeply unfair and immature. It is even worse that you use non-democratic discriminatory procedures for an unfair way. You have no right in any way to discriminate against any group, so take the employers, don't react like that. So you can't get your employers to vaccinate their workers by conditioning them, announcing it to the ministers, while on the other hand your government colleague is saying that the intimacy of a man who works in the public administration is whether he's going to vaccinate or not. Yes, yes, that's what Minister Coric told you. You have no right to do that. So, to me, every decision you make is legitimate, you take responsibility for your decisions. If the State considers that the vaccine is the only way to protect and impose the vaccine, then it is necessary to take responsibility, it is necessary to provide financial resources for all the costs incurred due to vaccination or otherwise make a free choice, but the right choice, as Germany today gives. So, we people give you the vaccine, you have the right to vaccinate, not vaccinate, it's your choice, we move on, responsibility for your health take over you and it's called free choice. And not this we'll give you a free choice, but you know if you don't vaccinate yet then you have no right to trade, you have no right to financial support, what you're talking about, it's not a free choice. If you're afraid that when people give you a free choice to listen to you, you should listen to your suggestions, then you should ask yourself where the trust went, the citizens' trust in headquarters. It went missing at the moment Mr. Minister when your Prime Minister spoke publicly, you said earlier that this was not true, Mr. Plenkovic says the headquarters is not some apolitical body, your president. So don't tell me about your expertise. I will ask you where the profession, where so far was the Society of Microbiology of the Croatian Medical Choir, where the Institute of Virology, are experts. I don't see that they've made statements. I can take the diplomas of those who sit in the office today or at headquarters. The special topic that arises is the topic of child vaccination but given the availability of all information up to the new disease, I advise you to strictly make it a free choice of parents, it must be the responsibility of parents because in your list of what is on the vaccination calendar it clearly states that this is brought on the basis of an analysis of the effectiveness, effectiveness, safety of the available vaccines, that epidemiologists, infectologists, pediatricians, representatives of the Croatian Medicines Agency, and from this it can be concluded that any change in the calendar has been vaccinated very carefully and transparent profession based on scientific evidence and experience. So I'm going to ask you in the end, is it necessary to finally define whether the covid is a day-to-day policy topic carried out by the political body made by Mr Plenkovic or is it a professional topic where experts finally need to report which day they remain silent?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55351	Referring to the last sentence of counterpart Petrova, yes, the profession leads this, this is led by an expert on ONO and DSZ, it is a general defence and social self-defense Mr Bozinovic and we also have a unique example in Europe where at the head of the body leading the fight against the crown of the crisis is not a health minister but is a police minister. That initial enigma why it was not followed by the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, but by the Civil Protection System Act, and why people do not trust the profession and why the response to vaccination is the way it is. I read carefully this report of his 65 pages, but what it lacks is a review of problems, a review of problems. Why was the delivery of the vaccine delayed? There has been a wider EU debacle where we have seen that these bureaucrats are unable to deal with any global risks and more complex situations. I will not talk about how far away one Israel has been, but enough to see how far Serbia has managed to get in the short term, and where the EU has been, especially Croatia within it. Then, even when the vaccine started to occur, there was an excessive vaccination with some drastic cases such as Iskra Primorac, who was in the Governing Council of the KBC Rebro and headed by REGOS, a woman healthy in her 30s along with her husband vaccinated before those who were on the front line against the crown of the virus without speaking to the elderly and most endangered fellow citizens. To no one, her mandate was renewed. Finally, this loss of trust in the profession and in the headquarters leads to great disinterest and mistrust of people in vaccination. There is talk about the organisation of vaccination checkpoints, but there is no answer as to why huge crowds were created, why there was a breakdown of the situation on the ground. We are talking about reviewing and improving information solutions related to reporting for vaccination, but we are not talking about why this system was discussed and how some florists, trained ITists, were doing such an important job in a country where we have a system of procurement, otherwise it worked very well. It is talked about continuing a national vaccination campaign, etc., but it eventually comes down to some kind of moral, and here we see more direct blackmail where the employers are transferred to the chief's responsibility that they force workers to be vaccinated and now the question arises, if this change occurs, the likelihood of someone having more serious consequences or even dying from vaccinations who will then be guilty. Well, that evil boss who put him up to the inoculation to get a boost until the good boss talked his employees into it. We see this kind of aberration now and such a moral decision standing in the country. What about the humiliating lines we see every day in front of HZZO for the COvid certificate, who's going to answer for it? It is said that the key objective is to encourage decision-making aimed at achieving a response to the proportional level of risk, starting with the fact that the risk is not equal among different population groups. So why are children even mentioned and children being vaccinated? What do you need to vaccinate children for? Therefore, it is official that the vaccination of an old man from a vulnerable group affects the reduction of the corona mortality as a vaccine of thousands of children or the vaccination of those between 30 and 40 years of age, and it is extremely low inoculation of those who should be vaccinated, which are the oldest and most endangered. So, I would ask the minister, since every word in this assembly is recorded and remains, can you, under full moral and scientific responsibility, answer the question of whether the risks of vaccination for healthy children are greater than the risks if this child gets covid? It definitely turned out that schools were not a part of the disease, and somehow on children was the greatest burden, their schooling is now being interrupted and we are getting final and scientific papers like this Dutch one that shows that children in online school don't learn anything at all. Who will be responsible for these obviously wrong decisions now? Gordan Lauc is a member of the government's Scientific Council, so the government has assessed that man is professional and competent, and he himself claims that insisting on PCR tests was a political non-science decision, etc., etc. Considering all this, we at the Bridge Club can't support a full report like this that lacks any self-critics and visions, which and how best to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55352	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55353	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Rasdić either doesn't understand or deliberately distorts the content and way of fighting the crown itself. In fact, it interferes with the Civil Protection System Act and the Public Protection Act against Contagious Diseases. One law serves to implement measures and another to determine what measures will be taken to protect the public. And there was nothing wrong with that, and he claims that we were actually based on the Civil Protection System Act fighting an epidemic knowing or deliberately noting In accordance with the Law on the Protection of the public. [[Sander raider: time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55354	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This was your replica. You have a warning. Next is the debate of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55355	Dear vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Thus, through this report on the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease epidemic in the Republic of Croatia, it seeks to bring the public debate as far as possible to the wider circle of our country's citizens as possible to help Croatia overcome the emerging pandemic-induced circumstances as easily as possible. The beginnings of state intervention are marked through the reaction of the authorities in a not-unacceptable way, and can rightly be said in a legal manner. Let us remember the punishment of a farmer who alone, without contact with other persons in his own tractor, took out land manure in the field and was therefore punished by brutally high punishment even though there was no valid regulation as a basis for punishment. I remind you that the amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases which were introduced into the regulation and the provisions on Covid-19 disease came into force only after the farmer had paid his sentence. I'm sorry that he paid her because if he had made a complaint, I believe that the second-degree body would have no basis for confirming the obligation to pay the fine. However, in fear of the will of the institutions and doubts in the rule of law, man decided not to face the relevant ones and to pay the penalty. Let this go to the soul of the Inspector himself who has determined such punishment. In parallel, our dear minister, so I am prime minister, have often been seen in highly compromising situations that they hoped the general public would not see. However, the general public was very familiar through photo evidence and was convinced by who knows which time we're not all the same under the law. The public was often confused by inconsistencies, but also by the messages the headquarters sent us, but also by the relevant ones. But there's no end to the illogicalities. Let us remind ourselves that Dr. Markotic, who spoke at the beginning of the pandemic about her own doubts about the possible finding of the vaccine, expressed several times in public concern that a vaccine that has not been tested long enough and cannot be accepted with certainty as a vaccine that will not cause certain side effects on human health and our organism. The Croatian public is currently most concerned by the announcements of child and youth vaccination policies, especially respecting the attitude of the profession, but also the experience we already have and which is behind us, which is that for children and young covid there is little risk and for general vaccination there is no need. The vaccines have been shown to be effective in the elderly, so there is no need for us to protect old and risky by treating young people. If we were to inject all of the old and the risky, following the development of the spread of the disease so far, we would conclude that we would no longer have a significant number of severe forms of this disease. When we talk about this subject, I ask the ruling to respect the right to the freedom of choice of parents, let us respect the rights of parents. The country's movement insists on that. We are also deeply concerned about the moral blackmail of businessmen who have suffered too much because of Covid-19. I remind you that the government's decision was to introduce measures to preserve jobs. Entrepreneurs had no choice whether to work or not. The country's movement stands for freedom of choice when it comes to vaccination. We believe that Croatia is a free country and that this postulate has no right to abuse. So when we look back, we're looking at 2020 and 2021. They will be slightly worse according to mortality since 2017. Of course, then, it is very difficult for us to understand all the restrictions and prohibitions that have been in place in this pandemic not only from an economic aspect and the consequences that we have caused by imposing restrictions on entrepreneurs but also from a psychological aspect. All the consequences of human psychic health caused by so-called. lockdown? Are we aware of problems in unstable families where violent members have been harassing their household for months, staying with them for 24 hours a day without being able to go to a cafe or on a sports field? Many of us are witnessing noises, curses, and even threats coming from apartments in buildings. And what happened between some walls we'll never know. I sincerely hope that the relevant knowledge will provide psychological support to the needy. The various measures that governments have tried to limit human contact have, of course, affected the reduction of virus spread to some extent. But for a long time, the effect was not very great. We see this very clearly from the fact that the number of infected and dead in countries with strict measures is equal to or even greater than the number of deaths in countries with milder measures. The country's financial stability had a much stronger impact on the number of deaths than the mere rigor of measures. The impact of the measures is overestimated in the media and it is driven by politicians who have to show that they are doing something, and what they are doing is imposing measures. Individual responsibility and caution are far more effective than the measures themselves. The question arises whether it is justifiable that our ruling fear imposes on us that the pandemic will re-emerge in the autumn and in a much worse form. There is no doubt that more infections and diseases will occur again in the autumn. In Croatia, however, covid has certainly been over half the population, and we have vaccinated about half the adult population, so somewhere near 2/3 of people should be protected. Therefore, it is much more likely that the sick will be less important, and the vaccination will protect them riskily, if we succeed, then the infected will be even less. I'd like to conclude that losing control of the pandemic needs to stop being afraid. What we've seen so far is that even without the strict measures imposed by other countries, the number of infected falls. We went through the third wave without any additional measures, which is the best proof that those who claim that the pandemic stopped the measures from this or those previous reports were wrong. We at the Department of Homeland Movement Club welcome the British Prime Minister's decision, which apparently has confidence in its people. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Monday that legal restrictions related to Covid-19, including mandatory masking and the restrictions on the number of people at meetings, are lifted in the final phase of the lockdown in England. All measures are lifted, only the obligation to isolate the infected and the distance of 1.5 metres in places such as airports remains. We are leaving legal restrictions and we will allow people to make their own informed decisions on how to deal with the virus, Johnson said at the latest press conference. In his words, restrictions on social contacts as well as recommendations on work from home will be lifted and the mandatory wearing of masks will be lifted. I'm sure you'd better think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55356	Next is a debate on behalf of the SDP club, respected Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55357	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Minister, Mr. Capak, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, on the basis of a December 2020 parliamentary conclusion, we are discussing for the second time the report on the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the pandemic COVID 19. When we had this first debate at the end of January, then we in some way appealed to you ministers, but also to all your co-workers who are key people in the fight against this epidemic that you should actually focus on the solution of the problem, in a more serious analytical way and that the problems are no longer being approached in one philosophical and arbitrary way. We also warned that when we talked more about some economic activities, it should be well assessed when it makes sense, when there is no banning certain social or economic activities. Unfortunately, after that period, we saw that again something very strictly forbidden at one point turned out to be unwarranted or unnecessary. For example, we are talking about cafe terraces or similar gatherings in the open or, say, they have now proved completely unnecessary, restrictions on the movement of people between counties except with passes. Because of the earthquake in Petrinja, you lifted the passes and what happened? Nothing, which leads to the conclusion that the passes were unnecessary, but they made life as difficult for many citizens as the number of infected has not increased since the terraces of cafes opened. Such an approach is now seen not only to bring damage in economic terms to the Republic of Croatia but also to the reputational damage to the system itself that manages the COVID crisis which in this third phase we call it the fight against COVID, which is very important. Trust in institutions as well as in life is built hard and hard and collapses with only one illogical decision or stupidity that everyone sees is stupidity and does not make any sense but insists on it. And the illogical decisions were too much. Therefore, this time we recommend and appeal to you that you approach the problems analytically and scientifically rather than arbitraryly and unoccupiedly. Only in this way can the possible loss of citizens' trust and thus preserve human lives and the health of the population, which is probably the purpose of your existence as a system of health protection. The crisis of this confidence, in our opinion, has arisen precisely because of the unserious approach of you who run the system and is particularly visible in this last degree, is linked to vaccination. The first vaccine wasn't enough, then there was very dangerous and contradictory information that was for... both efficacy and possible side effects of vaccination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just remember the panic related to AstruZenec so that something worse can come along, the vaccination over the line, the non-compliance with the order you set yourself, the irregular distribution of vaccines across Croatia, the dysfunction of the reporting system of those interested in vaccination, and then total chaos, not always, but sometimes at the vaccine checkpoints. All of this was reacted to by the institutions with an extremely poor, disorganised and inappropriate, public and media coverage of confusing information and misinformation and the system either had no response or did not provide answers. Which is also expected if we know that, in the very negotiation of the public information system model from the choice of the company that will lead to the negotiation of public relations services or the very vaccination platform itself, there have been everything, from flower shops, to former ones here we see lately, the confidant of HDZ. It certainly did not help to get Remdesivir, which we paid tens of millions of kuna last year, it seems to me 40 million correct me if I'm wrong, and the World Health Organization said there was no evidence of effectiveness. And this year you said I thought we'd spend the same amount of money on that drug. How do you think citizens view the decisions made by the Staff to depend on certain political events, local elections or Easter celebrations? How do you think citizens view it as being tolerated in February of this year, coffee could have been drank almost anywhere except in cafes or large gatherings in which the rules of assembly were violated while hosts or gym owners were arrested? How did the public view that your politicians were at mass funerals until those of their loved ones were able to walk with dignity? Let me remind you, at the funeral of our late colleague, Miroslav Tudjman, also gathered part of the government's officials and members of the Staff together with Prime Minister Plenkovic. It was similar at Milan Bandic's funeral. So there is Mrs. Markotic's performance at a large mass gathering, etc., etc. And then there's the senseless statement of the guy that the virus isn't the jump champion any further, but you've blown the students away. How did the citizens view it when you hugged and sang on election headquarters while they were banned from the party, when only because of the local elections for one day without any control of the surveillance and epidemiological conditions you opened the borders to let a part of the citizens enter Croatia and vote, I suppose, assuming that it would be in your favor? Of course, why am I bringing this up? That this is all influencing and has affected the loss of citizens' trust. And citizens actually believe less and less because of this. Now, when we add that another vaccination campaign, so I don't know if I'd say it was catastrophically bad or if it wasn't at all, today we're where we are. Just a little over 40% of people have been vaccinated to this day and I'm going to remind you that the Action Plan, we've all heard that a few times today, was planned 55% of the adult population. Last week, less than 30,000 people were vaccinated in Croatia for the first time, which is disastrously small. Especially worrying is the trend in Adriatic counties, Zadar and Split-Dalmatia and Sibenik-Kninska where there were still fewer people, about 36% and only the first dose, and right there is the basis of what the Croatian economy still holds so much head above, head above water, I mean, of course, tourism. Croatia was fully vaccinated in the total population at the bottom of the European scale, followed by only Romania, Bulgaria and Latvia. I don't know, Minister, if you see your responsibility in this, we see it. Why? Because in public opinion studies carried out last year, over 45% of respondents said they would not or will not be vaccinated. And what happened? Badge’s bright blue badge, which reads “Think of Others, Vaccinate. ” It's not a campaign, it's not enough and you had to know that. It is not a campaign when you have a bad and non-transparent website or when you do not answer 60% of the questions asked at the 911 call center. Today you said it was good to promote that number here, but 60% of the calls to the questions referred remain irresponsible. So what now? We open the borders, we invite foreign tourists, we celebrate sports successes at mass gatherings, football players and fans travel around the world, we didn't vaccinate. This week's growth in the number of newly infected is 20%. In Croatia 8,200 people died, 350,000 people got over the covid, many of them have long-term consequences and will never be as healthy as before. Covid crisis cost Croatia 34 billion kuna and if vaccination is the only time that new human victims and new damages to the Croatian economy are not then the government can't be responsible for its failed policy and vaccination campaign to transfer to Croatian citizens or businessmen and workers already have to do everything, but just to convince as many Croatian citizens as possible that vaccination is one of the greatest achievements of medicine that does not kill but save lives. However, without any serious analysis and legal justification, it will not be achieved by threatening the owners that they will be deprived of support unless what exactly happens, unless they are vaccinated, unless their workers are vaccinated or what? So it is another reckless announcement that will result in a further decline of confidence in the institutions. What does receiving incentives have to do with spreading the virus? When measures were taken to prohibit work in certain activities assuming that the spread of the epidemic was appropriate through these activities, it probably had some logic of a causal relationship. Moreover, in return, entrepreneurs received a certain financial compensation such as that. What he's saying now has no basis or purpose. Any introduction of vaccinations to Croatian citizens, and indeed as a final measure, which must certainly be preceded by the good design of the incentive campaign, must be proportionate and regulated by law. We will remind you that in the Republic of Croatia it is mandatory for 11 diseases to be vaccinated today, but that vaccination has become mandatory so that it is regulated legally, and that there was proportionality in the introduction of that obligation. On the one hand, the right of the individual to make his own personal choice was taken into account, on the other hand, the protection of the health of the society as a whole, there was no arbitraryness, there was no decision on the shortcut, but such decisions were taken after a serious and profound analysis. Well, that's exactly what we're asking the government and you ministers and all the other parts of the system that are involved in solving the covid crisis, responsibility, seriousness and credibility. In the end, I don't know how much this may make up for all this chaos and chaos in recent months, but I call on all Croatian citizens to split up and help together in the fight against covids.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55358	Next is the debate of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55359	Thank you. So, before we go to the specific problems and possible solutions to the situation in which we have found ourselves, which is primarily the situation not only of managing more of the crisis now than of the management and vaccination and the vaccination of our population to actually get out of the whole situation. I would like to say once again that, as the Green-Left Block Club, we absolutely not only support vaccination but we are expressing great gratitude to all those scientists and scientists who have worked hard and worked to have this vaccine within this time period that we have and that we feel the same as our colleague mentioned that vaccines and are one of the greatest achievements of modern medicine. When we talk about freedom of choice, we support freedom of choice. But what does freedom of choice really mean? It means the information of the election. Can our citizens make free and informed choices? And that's what every one of us who, in any way, conveys information here very often in a way that chooses one part of the information that suits him or Conventions his political stance, and the other part ignores, must ask whether it actually makes it impossible for our citizens to come to an informed choice. The level of false news miss interpretations that occurred both in terms of covid and in terms of vaccines led to this, among other things, that we have a significant number of citizens who do not want to be vaccinated. But let's see how it all actually happened together. So, we are trying to make proposals from the crisis management model, predictability of measures, to the very organisation of vaccinations. However, what we see now is that the reasons why the campaign led by the headquarters failed to inform more citizens about the welfare of the vaccines in a way that they bring it as a free choice is the reason why the decline in trust that has been happening for the past year. So it started out that after the first lockdown and the first break, we suddenly had different exceptions from measures, so we can procession, we can mass but we can't do this, we can't do that. We had a breach of measures by the members of the Staff themselves, that's what people looked at and they trusted them less. Why do I have to and he doesn't have to? We had continuous double standards of application of measures, and ordinary mortals at the funeral when they died, they could have as many as 15 people, but they're not ordinary could have had 1,000. It all happened parallelly and at the same time, all the citizens watched. And then there was the vaccine. Let's remember how it started. At the beginning of the actual vaccination, it started with the "V should be vaccinated" campaign, where citizens were invited to be vaccinated with a vaccine that does not have enough or has not yet been distributed. Afterwards, in order to continue to promote a vaccine that is not enough, parliamentary representatives were first vaccinated as a promotional goal and again made clear that there are those first order and those second row. Then even if the thing was worse, it was vaccinated across the line, so we read daily in the newspaper how Boras was vaccinated, how Burilovic was vaccinated, how Zoran Gobac, Linic, Koren, etc., and other prominent politicians and their wives, their sometimes entire relatives and sometimes relatives from another country that they brought to vaccination through order. We called it vaccination based on the principle of inoculation, if you found yourself in the right place at the right time, you could get a vaccine that many others hadn't gotten in months behind. But let's just say that the situation split up and we got enough doses of the vaccine. When we received a sufficient number of doses of vaccines, we in the green-left block expected to go in the order of vaccination and that there would be first vaccination between 80+ years of age and 70-79 and, of course, those younger who belong to vulnerable groups. However, this is not the outcome of vaccination. He's not like that. And I asked the day, I didn't get an answer from the minister, but I asked you about the vaccination of the older population, and then I took the data out of the official bodies at European and global level and so on 5.7., so it seems to me that, 5.7., that's what, yesterday, the percentage of the population per year, so who received a minimum one vaccine, so I have to say that since 80+ years in Croatia, those who received a minimum one vaccine, according to these data is 53.7%, in Austria, for example, to compare it with Austria alone is 97.7. In that group. In all of the Western European countries, in this group, and so are the most vulnerable, we have the highest percentages of the fissure and even up to 100%. What also worries is the low level of fission of those 50 to 59, below 50%, those 60 to 69 have 61.8% and 70 to 79 69%, it's actually the best group in terms of fission according to that data. Now, what does that tell us? It tells us that we have not yet succeeded in enough to protect those who are most vulnerable. On the other hand, in order to of course spend the vaccine, we have opened the vaccine for everyone, it is not bad in itself, because the majority of people are being vaccinated, but I still think that our priority must be to inject everything from 50+ to up with a much larger share. And here we have some suggestions we'd like to make. So when we talk about a further campaign and how to increase the total share of the population that has been split, so with 2 doses, the first thing we think we should do is get to the patient or people themselves for vaccination. So, it seems to us that one of the reservations that we have in large cities where it is more accessible and easier to get to vaccination, that it is not fulfilled, but that voluntary part is already over, that we have to use the methods as well as your colleague brought it out here and said that just by coming to the rural areas, buses or any other way, it will make vaccination very accessible so when someone sees here his neighbor is vaccinated, the other neighbor has vaccinated him, so maybe he will. So we have to go to the people. The other thing is, we have to change campaigns. A campaign in which the Staff, in which you don't mind, but again trust isn't what it was a year ago and for all of these reasons that we're being instructed here, it's a simple fact, let's make peace with it, but also generally that politicians run the campaign as one group of people that we normally have or citizens least trust is something to say, counterproductive. So let's try to do a civil campaign, let's invite citizens who have been vaccinated to speak openly about their problems that they had about it, the issues they had, the mistrusts they might have had, and why they eventually got vaccinated and how it went. Let's try stories like that. With a citizen, so where people can identify each other and they can see that what bothers them as a question, what other legitimate questions have had, but there they have been vaccinated and everything is fine. So that's another thing. Third, open information. We need to stop people who are afraid of vaccination, in any way label it than we have to address exactly what they're wondering what their problems are about. One part of them will be sworn antivaxer for the rest of their lives but actually a lot of them just need maybe accurate information, direct information, and eventually, to give them those people they trust. And lastly, encourage. We think that the older population could be split into a much larger percentage if we had direct incentive and direct incentive that we suggest is release for a year, within the year in which they were vaccinated, from supplementary insurance because it's in direct correlation. It is some cost to the state, on the other hand, less, much less cost than the cost of being hospitalized by those people and actually not to talk about the costs when we lose people. So we think that a release from the supplemental would be a good measure, a positive move instead of a repression to go with something special. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55360	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, Honored representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55361	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start by referring to the information that we've all been dealing with and which the minister said is that the crown or the crown died in these past few years or let's say about 15 months, 8 200 people. It is convenient to know that 297 people died in transport in Croatia in 2019 and 2020. 237 people died in traffic. This data suggests that about the crown we in Croatia... We have one dead, up to some 480 residents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is a very alarming situation because unlike some other indicators where Croatia is almost always among the last on the scale, on the European scales, we are here in Europe and at the world top, 15 of us are in the world by the number of people who die per million, or 8 in the EU. And that is a brief answer to the question of how the effects of the measures we are discussing today have been. The effects are bad. We can try to get out there as the minister was responsible for the first time talking about objective circumstances that could not be affected, such as that. The old population that is very old in Croatia and then sensitive to the most difficult consequences of COVID, but we are looking at it realistically, they have this problem in other European and some world countries, but we are still here among the worst. I absolutely claim that the government didn't do a good job, that the Staff didn't do a good job, and that's why we have problems of different kinds. I will in this debate on behalf of the club sort of define myself specifically in relation to the three segments. One segment is the preparation of the health system after the first wave of the pandemic, the second segment is the issue of political and constitutional law and the third, as is now the most pronounced problem, it is vaccination or better said non-vaccination. About the health system, we've already talked a lot about it, but in the context of this report, it's not bad to repeat that we're somewhere in the 12th month. Last year, they had on the agenda an interpretation on the preparation of the health system on the crown and, of course, it was not about the preparation for this phenomenon, or for the crown at the beginning of the year, because such a situation could not really have been predicted, but the question raised was the issue of preparation for the autumn. The question of how health has been prepared since the situation has been seen and developed. Let me remind you that at that time we felt and today we believe that they were the failures of the organization. The biggest problem was the general unpreparedness of health, even in the autumn and winter of last year, although it has been seen for months. Everything was done without a proper plan and a proper review of the situation, unprepared and uncoordinated with poor governance. The same ions of people sitting in the government in Stoger were talking about what was waiting for us in the fall, how the autumn wave would be serious and dangerous and then when the fall came, everyone watched together that they hadn't prepared. We can think of these days a little, chaos ruled both in preparation and in coordination and in the supply of equipment and medicines, on the schedule of people, possibly hiring new ones that I don't speak at all. The government and the headquarters were in constant conflict with those who did business, doctors, nurses, medical staff, and their associations and chambers. We have often witnessed public bickering with family doctors. Another huge problem we warned about was the availability of healthcare for all Croatian citizens. What happened to prevention, diagnostics and treatment of all those in need and not COVID positive? The system was put into a cold drive or started working in a very limited volume. Cancelling the appointment, extending the waiting list, sending it to other hospitals where they knew nothing about it, it became the reality of many who needed health care. This was confirmed by the Government at that time in its response to the interpretation, and I will quote: “The work of the hospital was adapted to epidemiological circumstances, and the Ministry of Health instructed hospitals to continue taking care of priority patients.” When you give someone instructions to continue taking care of priority patients, it actually means that it only takes care of them if not all of them. The other thing is the problem of respecting the Constitution and the way decisions have been made since the beginning of the pandemic. That debate was active for a while, but in the meantime it went out but I still think it's a serious problem. In addition to the crown, Croatia received a complete phantom body in the form of the National Civil Protection Staff, which suddenly began to cheer and dress with this country as it remembered. Human and civil rights are still limited today, and at first it was particularly dramatic, without ever ultimately explaining the state of formality we are in and why a small group of people can decide overnight to ban people from moving, working, gathering even in private spaces. I do not claim that some of these decisions were not justified or should not have been made, but the circumvention of parliaments and other institutions that are authorised under the Constitution and the law to make such decisions remains a serious problem and a great danger to the state. I must admit that I am particularly concerned about the role of the Parliament itself who, from this situation from the highest legislative body of the state, turned me into a left-wing object. I still believe that decisions that have affected people's rights and lives so significantly should not have been made past and without the Parliament. This was the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has called for all these measures. This cannot be further from the truth because the Constitutional Court here played a combination of too long waiting and then the refusal of the evaluation proposal on the basis of formal and technical reasons without ever entering their core, or the core of the measures taken and the manner in which they were taken. This is not even a very unusual behavior of constitutional judges and courts in times of crisis but certainly did not help solve the problem. And the third problem I'm going to be talking about here for the last 2.5 minutes, December 3rd last year, I said about this speaker, "Now we have a new challenge, distribution of the Corona vaccine, and insurance to ensure that a sufficient number of people are being vaccinated." And again, we don't see any concrete and clear plans or evaluations of how it's going to be done. When I predict that something bad is going to end, I don't like it, I really don't like it to prove that it was right. I would rather rather say from this pay phone today that the vaccination went well, if we had achieved the goals we set ourselves, that we were going towards keeping the crown in such a way, I would even say, I'm going to be filled with ash, so I wrongly said there in December, but unfortunately I wasn't wrong. What we all know, we know it's not like it's about vaccination. The HDZ government and HDZ headquarters entered without plans and programmes, with no idea how to design the campaign and results are seen. We have a very low cleavage. The Fourth Wave is threatening us. It's the season's problems. Second year online classes, closing and limiting to who knows when. And I can say that, too, I can say that I understand the prime minister in that act that he's angry with people who don't want to be vaccinated and, above all, the prime minister should be angry with himself. Here in the Parliament in December, Minister Beros said it was the most important job in front of us to hire psychologists and communicologists to design a serious campaign that would have an impact. Instead, we got suspected of corruption in the construction of a decomposing platform, a campaign that comes down to this party headquarters that actually doesn't trust anyone along with the prime minister giving missed statements of the type that people who don't get inoculated are not patriots. That way we won't achieve anything but the opposite effect of the desired. Leave the patriots alone and do some work for once. And what's the fact that I cited at the beginning of this speech, which is that we're leading by mortality in the world, is somewhere over 480 residents, one of them died of the crown or the consequences of the crown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55362	Next is the debate between the HSS and RF MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55363	Good afternoon, everyone. So I asked the minister what the government's position on mandatory vaccination was. He didn't answer me, I hope I get that answer because it actually seems crucial. I'll try to explain why. I asked what argument it was, so against, in fact, which is an argument against mandatory vaccination, given that in some ways, and here, we were actually able to see the same answer to the question that it was true, the answer goes down to lower levels. So, they're going to be asked to give support to those who have been vaccinated, first of all it was an idea to read from some of the answers we've heard here that, from what we've read in the media, it's conditional on employers and then after the rebellion of employers, it's obvious from some of these indications that it's only going to come down to the level of workers. So the one who has not been vaccinated will not be supported, here it is said that the support is also not mandatory, that the support is not required or accepted, that it means the support is shared if there are conditions and are not mandatory. So those who take responsibility to say so are the most sensitive, vulnerable, so those who take responsibility are the ones who have a condition of their job. Now, what is this instance that should be responsible for the cleavage, that's a key question, so we don't have to prove that vaccination is good and that the vaccine is needed, so we need to ask the question of who's responsible? That's the real question. So to explain here that the cleavage is too low and that vaccination is well practically deplaced, unfortunately, some MPs still need to draw it but actually deplaced, but the real question is who is responsible and how will take that responsibility. So those who need to take responsibility should certainly not be the weakest ones, or should not come to the conclusion that those who can afford it, should not be vaccinated and those who can afford it, should not be vaccinated and those who cannot afford it should be vaccinated. That's not very good math. It doesn't mean unfortunately the minister answered the question, but I'm going to ask it in writing because it seems to me, the key question of this debate. So what the minister and the government think about mandatory vaccination, I saw from some articles in the paper that the minister said that if it reaches the 4th wave, it would be for mandatory vaccination, that some countries were to announce mandatory vaccination, but that it would only be if it came to the 4th wave, mandatory vaccination. Why is it not mandatory for vaccination now if it is de facto introduced for certain groups? So, vague and discriminatory moves are a key problem and another problem is who takes responsibility. So here, the whole opposition is also unsatisfactory, but it is dissatisfied for quite different reasons and therefore it is also necessary to say one other thing, means this very clear takeover of responsibility, it is really necessary to make a distinction in the opposition itself, why and why some are vaccinated, why some are not vaccinated, I also think that in the debate it would be useful for everyone involved in the debate, also to say whether they are vaccinated, why and therefore for transparency, it would be very good to ask the question if COVID certificates are needed for some places, why they are not needed to enter the Assembly, and why we in the Assembly are all treated as unvaccinated, in this case it is really important that we communicate clearly with which we are not satisfied, that there is no impression that the complete opposition is unsatisfactory, that the change of a single minister can solve everything, just let a little more come along, so we all of which means we are not satisfied with any communication. So we need to define exactly what we are unhappy with and what we should do and how everyone else sees this discontent. So if we have a situation that 44 infected 1 died, that more than 8,000 people in the Republic of Croatia died, that 15 in the world means mortality by population, we don't just have to ask why it's like that, but who's responsible. So this vague responsibility that goes down to an individual level and that to those who live off their work is bad. So the government is responsible for the government, and when it says very often that the government is a bad master, so they're not responsible for the situation in the Orlyava, the workers themselves are responsible, as well as here. No, it's not an individual responsibility, it's not the responsibility of the individuals themselves, it's the responsibility of the government, and it needs to be clearly communicated. Not only will the government let down the responsibility as announced, so to the employers, but it will descend on the worker himself. And now the government is instead of taking responsibility and if it wants the cleavage to be greater... Mandatory, determined it was actually a worker's obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was also a public question, of course, private sector employers, and what about public sector workers, and now the government is also setting out some measures for public sector workers, to lower individual responsibilities on them. Entrepreneurs were still dissatisfied, so Minister Beros announced the development of guidelines for the health sector and here is expected to hit the lowest possible, meaning on the worker, probably means with the obligation to test where it is unclear who would be responsible for paying for the test. It'll probably be paid by the workers themselves who haven't been vaccinated. So as much as I welcome vaccination, responsibility should be assumed by the Government not an individual, it must be clear that vaccination is mandatory and not free, and then it goes down to individual actors and where workers will be left without a job. When he says that the mandatory vaccination is ready to be introduced in the fall, so if the 4th wave comes with hundreds of dead, the question needs to be asked, what's the problem, I mean why doesn't it now be put as a solution. The need means either to provide support in the private sector or to test it on its own account, it can only strengthen the discrimination or ambiguity of these measures, or to say so, to hit the poorest in the pocket without actually having to wash hands again, as in any other situation, the aim is to keep voters, not to wave, not to take measures that are not excessively popular. I know that here the minister may rather agree with some in the opposition and with some less agree, but he does not want to take the place, so he balances between all of us who are saying different things and who are not really synchrones, there is really a need to decide what can and what is wanted, and the worst possibility is that people are "bought" and very ironic, is their own freedom. What must not happen, that the possibility of someone staying unvaccinated is being identified with wealth, those who can afford it will not be vaccinated, those who cannot, will have to be vaccinated, there is in fact a fundamental principle of equality that would have been violated in case the government assumed responsibility and determined that vaccination was mandatory for all the same. Obviously, since the beginning of the pandemic in the public, different answers and opposing groups have appeared but the government has to take over one side of science and this is a side of unquestionable information and data that must be clearly communicated to everyone, it may be unpopular to answer that question but the question has to be answered. If vaccination saves as the minister said here, the lives and the economy, it is obvious that it is not enough to recommend, is it also said that if we have 43% of adults split, how to get to 55%, means we have to take responsibility, must say which instance is responsible, I am not of course from those who believe that the change of one minister would lead to a better solution, the problem is much deeper than incompetence, the problem is precisely that balance between popular and unpopular political attitudes and therefore the formation of political attitudes towards polls and popularity. What is worst and unfortunately in all political difficult issues is being brought as a solution, and that is to hit the weakest. Let's hit on those who are unorganized, who are the poorest, who have no opportunity to strike back so symbolically, which in this case are workers. So if we have a country that in many cases has told workers that it is a bad master because here we have really the same model, and that's not going to be our responsibility, we're going to let the workers decide for themselves what they're actually going to decide. So, we are for vaccination but also for taking responsibility for the government and we accept data and scientific facts but we do not accept the government's irresponsibility, this handwashing, the spilling of responsibility to the weakest, this attitude needs to reach a clear position of egalitarianism, in approach to all issues related to society and answers must be uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55364	Following individual debates, the first respected representative, Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55365	Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Civil Protection Staff. 500 days were COVID here between us and these 500 days with numerous decisions, there were several hundred, the Head of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Minister Bozinovic, the most affected the daily life of our citizens. There have been good and less good decisions, and after 500 days, in the last few weeks, the campaign on the need for vaccinations carried out by the Civil Protection Staff and its leaders as well as the government's leaders has been on the rise. Despite these appeals, however, the split in Croatia is quite low compared to other Western European countries and EU members. What's causing it? The cause is that the growing number of people trust you. And here I am, one of them, why do the fewer people trust you? Well, it's precisely because of a series of contradictory decisions that have been made in the last 500 days. Well, let's just remember some. One of the most frequently used civil protection headquarters sentences is "The health of the nation comes first," but only sometimes. Namely, the first restrictive measures were taken after the HDZ in-party elections, until then the nation's health was irrelevant. Then we have one period where the health of the nation is very important, so we come to a choice. On the day of the elections, all those who have the right to vote and live outside the Republic of Serbia, especially in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can enter Croatia without a PCR test without confirming that they have been over COVID-19 and that the nation's health is no longer in the first place. Let's remember the statement that masks don't protect, only have psychological meaning, so after a few months they become mandatory. Let us remember that children between different classes must not be mixed inside the class and those children are simultaneously on the same bus to school. And let's also remember some pictures where headquarters leaders don't follow the measures, I mean the Chief of Staff, a few days ago in the Spaladium arena where he was in the closest circle of his associates without a mask on his face, he broke a decision he made himself a few days earlier. And then, of course, people don't trust him for it. We also remember the statements of several ministers, especially recently, Minister Coric, who has called those who do not vaccinate false guru and thus offended a large part of our citizens, he must understand that he is a minister in the Croatian government and that he should work in the interest of the Croatian state and all Croatian citizens, and such statements are essentially creating a conflict with those who are skeptical. Such statements do not give citizens confidence, such statements do not build citizens' confidence. I think it is high time that the Civil Protection Headquarters of the Republic of Croatia was depolitized as a top body at the time of the pandemic, that other people, different worlds, experts, and that they would try to regain the confidence of their citizens and thus increase the fragmentation in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and then we could have a longer tourist season and a more stable economy, especially in the autumn months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55366	There's a replica. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55367	Thank you. Comrade Pavliček, I must disagree very strongly with your claims. So this headquarters I think enjoys the absolute trust of both the Croatian nations and all of us here. You're talking about depoliticization, pal. Well, a member of the Staff has been sitting here recently as a politically elected member. Some members, as you said, carry out measures in the Spaladium arena or hug each other and kiss with the nearest in the pandemic or participate in the marking of religious rituals and make fun of those who at the same time say that they must distance themselves from their loved ones, that they must not even express their condolences at funerals, I would call it credible and consistent. Just like now, they're as surprised as a calf with a colorful door why no one believes they should be vaccinated. Such people, with such a credible record, should we believe?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55368	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I agree with you that the headquarters is a purely political body that has made dozens of politically motivated decisions rather than epidemiologically justified decisions. And the Chief of Staff made decisions in the interest of his political options and that's a fact. And the main reason is that, that's why people don't trust the Civil Protection Command and they don't believe those cries of yours why they need to be vaccinated because you've lost the trust of a great deal of voters and citizens of this country long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55369	Next is an individual discussion of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55370	I see this speaker as a prerequisite for dialogue and all I have here is a number of questions will only after the answer refer to conclusions, so I will use the business opportunity to ask the Minister to take advantage of his business opportunity and to give me answers to very specific questions that directly concern the measures and health of our citizens so that we can polarise the content here together. I didn't come here to keep monologues, please have a chance after me if you really want to talk about taking five minutes and things that hang out in the air give concrete answers. And now I'm going to say what are the things that are problematic and which, according to my court, are hanging in the air. The first problem is equating measures and not enough courage to require equal rules for everyone. Mr. Minister, which means the minister recommends something? I'll give you two specific examples. One is the situation in which a father wants to attend the birth of a child, we have completely unequal measures at the level of the Croatian hospital. Some require rapid antigen tests to make this real, and some require this PCR, and no one can predict when the child will be born. Which means you recommended something? Why do we not have unique measures and do you follow the implementation of your recommendations? Example number two, are you a recommendation for those patients who are in the terminal stage of the disease that their loved ones may still visit them. That's a recommendation. Do you have an answer on how much the hospital is carrying out? I know a part of the hospitals that certainly don't. Everyone gets out of a situation, some ignore. After all, no one knows what the recommendation means. Please answer the question, you can also address these two specific cases that make your recommendations work and what recommendations mean at all. Number two, leveling measures. We had a specific situation for teachers to be kind of discriminated against because they were asked that if they could take children on multiple trips that unlike Covid's passports, they had to be vaccinated with two doses or tested, and on the other hand, the Covid passports were worth a whole other rule. They suddenly have a variant that it is worth it to you in one period of time if you are only vaccinated once a dose. Since once-dose-vaccinated professors cannot take their children on trips without being tested, and all other citizens, as well as those single-dose teachers and Covid can use all the contents in this country. Why aren't these criteria even and who's discriminating who? From where and by what criteria a single dose is enough to move freely, given that there is a huge difference between how much it protects from the second dose, and I guess that's why it needs to be vaccinated twice. Are we thus giving false security to our citizens and potentially putting them and all other citizens at risk? Then, the next problem, we're green and we need Covid's confirmation to enjoy all the content that we used to be able to enjoy. Is there a situation where life goes back to normal? If it's not now that we're green, when it's going to be, what does that green mean anyway? Furthermore, when the supply of equipment and everything related to this situation will finally become public to prevent all possible malfeasance and to let Croatian citizens hear from whom and at whom it is valued and why it was obtained from it. And what I've already asked you as a question, when will the Croatian citizens finally hear, given that we donate as many as 310,000 doses of vaccines because we don't have where with them at all what our storage capacity is, how many of these excess vaccines we have now that we have no place to store, do we have an alternative to medical waste and who will be responsible for the wrong estimates because they are not in line with the real needs of our residents? And to clarify some concepts such as the up option of doses that we have additionally ordered, we know that some of the doses that we had to force ourselves to ensure that the vaccine was faster. Have you looked at the contracts, have you audited anything from those who haven't arrived in time to return, and you can conclude because there are many outstanding questions left and whether this has affected and to what extent environmental pollution is affected by the number of use of disinfectants and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55371	We have two replicas, the first one is Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55372	One of the reasons for the low trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in what the headquarters is telling them and recommends that I think it certainly lies in a failed public communication strategy. In fact, what happened is that more or less all of us in different fields of life have experienced, which is that each inflation leads to devaluation. Not in any European country, and in a few of them I followed the media in the first year of the crown, and even now, I have not seen that case every day that we had press conferences of headquarters and then, after that, that members of the headquarters would think about the central and evening journals of several national TV houses. Simply this overload of some daily information has led to bluntness and I would say the indifference of the population. I find it interesting in this report that by mid-April 2021, it was distributed to three times a week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and since mid-April, it was only once a week on Friday. Do you feel that this is also one of the causes of low public confidence in what the headquarters says is the fact of overload with unnecessary information provided by the headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55373	Let's resolve the illogicalities, resolve the contradictions, give us decisions on the issues. Here is the minister I started a dialogue with you, you have a business opportunity, I have asked very specific questions, I hope you will use, stand here in the Croatian Parliament and give the Croatian citizens an answer to all that I have asked you here. Otherwise, and I still don't see that you've come to answer me, and I ask you to do that, I'm going to think that you don't have answers to these questions, that you're going to be carrying out a non-sychtic policy that's not logical, which is not medical but purely political, and that nobody should really protect you from any and even unfounded criticism. I can tell you what the report should contain, it should contain statistics on the increase in violence at the time of Covid, which is also related to measures of isolation in homes and beyond. And the mental health of students and what exactly you do to prevent such situations from happening further. Once again, please, I have given you specific questions. Give me concrete answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55374	Followed by replica, Honored Representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55375	Minister, get a colleague to report and start answering. So I wouldn't agree with the doctor if we were overloaded with information, maybe irrelevant information you were missing. We don't have the right information, there's a minister out there. I'm with Rebra. I'm sitting in my Nissan, showing me 42 degrees, everyone down at sea, probably 45, watching TV, let's start giving answers, or you or Capak, let's start acting or really, we'll really think you don't have any answers. And the result is bad, we're 15 in 200 countries. 200 countries are in the UN, we're 15 per death, we can't stop it. Maybe that's why it wasn't a curfew, that we were guarding the economy, but let's let it go to the future. Please start answering nicely. I've been sitting there for an hour and a half, not a word from you or Mr. Capak, just answers, nothing else, for your sake. For information. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55376	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55377	I'm not here to keep a monologue, I'm not here to tell you you're just not good, I've asked you questions, very specific that point to illogicality. What are your recommendations, how to ensure the presence at birth of the same criteria for all, how to allow those who have terminally sick to really visit them at the hospital, if you follow your recommendations, whether teachers are discriminated, which is with medical waste, who is responsible for the wrong estimates, how many vaccines are currently waiting on a lager that we need to take care of urgently, and obviously we won't use it for vaccination? And everything else I've listed for you here, and it's crucial if we're green now, and none of the measures are going to stop, and the parameters are going to go away, and will they ever go away? I've asked you questions, Minister, so we're here to talk, so here's a stop you have a business opportunity to give answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55378	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues before us is a report on the effects of the implementation of the measures which list the strategic objectives of which are one of the most important in the observed period, the effective implementation of vaccinations in all segments. The government of the Republic of Croatia has opted for health and economic security, and I don't see that it's quite legitimate that today we're looking for someone who's guilty, a faggot who needs to hang, that he can do better, but I'll mention it at the beginning of two numbers. So ordered doses of 7 million and 610 thousand. As for vaccination and benefit from vaccination after the first dose, 0.8% were reported positive after the second dose of 0.3%. Administered after the first dose of 0.08%, after the second dose of 0.03%. The deceased is neither at HZZO base, nor in Covid's death reports. How to combine the health policy and political responsibility of the government, we have witnessed this whole time of the Covid epidemic. I'll just mention when the government had to derail either freedom of entrepreneurship or a ban on discrimination, how to find an ideal solution and can a small stab in the upper arm meet our high expectations? The vaccine is the greatest range of medicine and the vaccine is the reason for hope. When it comes to the subject of Covid, I always like to compare myself with other countries. Today other countries are also mentioned. I'll mention the example of the United States, President Joe Biden said our fight against the virus is not over. There is a very large cleavage, somewhere like in the UK, so about 50% of the population, but the rate of vaccination has declined rapidly. And yes, the reason for not trusting in political structures, the reason why certain policy options take care that there are a significant number of voters who will in no way be vaccinated, and which we popularly call anti-vaxers is also why certain people send some ambiguous messages. Today we had a chance here to hear those who are critical about the work of headquarters, but who again send a clear message of vaccination because vaccination is a statement and solidarity. So, risk groups don't need to particularly convince them to vaccinate, vaccinate and motivate young people, healthy people because simply if they don't vaccinate then we won't get that ideally imagined immunity of the herd for which we should actually be vaccinated and all those who are at this point in between the phase and the anti-vaxers. The president of the German Immunological Society Christine Falk used one comparison and said this virus plays Russian roulette with people and never knows who to hit, vaccination is the best protection a man can afford, people who don't vaccinate must count on being infected sooner or later. Also mentioned today is British Prime Minister Boris Johnson who has decided that since 19 July, all measures have been abolished despite the high incidence of Delta soy and informing you, so it is contrary to all of what at this time represents science and doctors. Mayor of London Sadiq Khan wrote on Twitter my mask protects you your mask protects me. So neither the mayor of the capital agrees with this decision as it is. Consider, too, the example of Sweden where the chief epidemiologist set some goals that have not been met. What he would like to say, therefore, is that despite all possible headquarters facilities, the Republic of Croatia has at all times made decisions that were in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization that were in line with medical recommendations. And in the end, I don't have any more time, but I will finish what the president of HLK has sent to the doctors, we can only win the battle if we all work to achieve the same common goal, the most possible division of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55380	We have several replicas, the first one is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55381	Comrade Cellic, you are part of the ruling majority, so I have to ask you, how can we have any common cause, have I called the minister for dialogue, have I asked reasoned questions, have I offended anyone? And the minister defends himself from issues that concern me not but from the Croatian public, dealing with this whole crisis with silence. Well, this is twilight, not only HS, but also Croatian health policies, because it is clear to all of us that silence can only mean one thing, answers to these questions, and there is no contradiction. And then how do you expect anyone to believe the decisions of headquarters or anyone on such a fragile foundation to be vaccinated tomorrow?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55382	Dear Representative Selak Rasdic, the debate is not over and the minister does not have to answer exactly after you have asked questions directly. Not all questions can be answered. He's got, as far as I know, and a final debate, and maybe he'll come forward after some other individual discussion. You asked some specific questions without further ado. I'll tell you the situation in health care facilities. The minister spoke at the level of the Republic of Croatia at the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, which is a synonym of Croatian psychiatry, the fissure is 91%, and this did not come spontaneously whether it was. You can see that HLK President has also sent that, after a thorough examination, doctors advise people independently on their specialty and point out that information is very important, but it is also important to use citizens' confidence in doctors. So I hope that question is also about the administrative covid that I think is very good at. These are individual examples, but generally I think most of the answers are there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55383	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55384	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Celic, vaccination is the most effective public health measure, and is aware that only by vaccination can we return our lives, our economy and generally social life to normal. You're a health care professional, so here's my question for you. In your opinion, what are the reasons for not trusting in vaccination, and how can we change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55385	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55386	Well, honourable counsel Maximchuk, there's a lot of reasons. I would never go aggressively because aggression never ultimately brings good. It may be an ordinary fear of vaccines, which can be false, semi-falsified, semi-true information that is therefore filled with social networks, can be a mistrust in the pharmaceutical industry, so that it is also of certain movements in a special way apostropheal, and may be a mistrust in the power of yes. I thought it was only in underdeveloped countries, in countries with insufficiently developed democracy, but also in more serious countries of modern Western democracy, we have a situation that people who at some point with a certain political option disagree in a greater proportion do not decide to vaccinate. So there are many reasons. Those who have cemented attitudes probably won't be able to do anything, but there are a significant number of people who need to be informed and I believe that there can be a number much, much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55387	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55388	Your Honor, Vice President. Your Honor, here's what you said was one medical responsibility, but also political. Here's a lot of cleavage, security, which comes with recommendations from the world and HLK, security towards each other, responsibility to each other. We have a population that, uh... our citizens who are, who are in need of vaccination and who are and where doctors have the greatest responsibility towards them, and we all as citizens. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, I find it very dangerous to mix these two things politically and healthily. This is a health care facility where citizens are very important, where every man has a responsibility to each other. We must not put this political activism in shape sometimes because the headquarters must have the greatest responsibility at this point, surely and the criticisms are good, but at this point we must all be responsible together. Here... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55389	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55390	Dear Representative Deur, it is difficult to separate the policy from any topic, especially from the global pandemic of covid, and although it is here all the time today, when we are discussing this report, the Minister of Health, could be free to be Minister of the Interior, it was the Secretary of State. Croatia as a tourist country is therefore a matter of certain security, the slogan "Stay Safe in Croatia" is closely related to the covid epidemic. We have seen that at a certain point after these priority groups that have been vaccinated by tourist workers. However, what concerns me, too, is the fact that in the Dalmatian counties there is an extremely low cleavage and additional efforts should be made, so not only by government but also by local and regional self-government units, however, each of us can make a contribution so that the cleavage is greater, but it is important that we provide adequate information, that we send a message that the vaccine is safe and effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55391	The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55392	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, here we are coming from the hospital system both, my question is about the advantage of vaccination in terms of functioning, the safe functioning of our health system. We know that 80% of health care workers know that here we expect that about the population's fissure that we will satisfy one different functioning of our system and, of course, we will be able to solve the problem touched by representative Selak Rasudiæ, and it is also about making visits, enabling parents with a child and, of course, the presence of fathers at birth. A lot of things will be easier when the population splits.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55393	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55394	Dear Representative Simic. It seems to me, however, that as time goes by, somehow more trust in the vaccine despite all the problems and so on within the health system. Let us not ignore social care institutions because if we have a situation to have maximum restrictive measures in homes for older people, and employees in those homes who come and come, and this was seen to be especially during the first lockdown in the situation now that they have the possibility of vaccines not taking advantage of the situation raises different questions, in which way these skeptics motivate. There are also different models of rewards offered I don't know from hunting licenses in America, but then the question arises if you have to reward something and thus stimulate it, then you ask the question logically, so why is there something wrong with that? So all these different forms of marketing at this point are not yet going beyond the right solution that we should come up with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55395	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Celic, you said that vaccination is an expression of solidarity, and I would like to stress that especially because Christian democracy, for example, is a symbol of solidarity. often mentions this principle of solidarity, so if you want the culture of life, but this does not apply to just one dimension, it is not only when here the state comes to meet those who because of lockdown could not make money, so then the state budget is financed by specific programmes, but the other side of solidarity is a personal responsibility. If you want and when it comes to the culture of life, it also implies personal responsibility in this case, a personal responsibility that is expressed as you yourself have said at this time of vaccination, thus defending life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55397	Your Honor, Mr. Stier, I agree with you. So the Catholic Church has since the very beginning and the Pope's Academy of Life and the Convention for the Science of Faith has published official documents, Pope Francis has personally vaccinated and a significant number of church dignitaries promotes actively, we have now had the situation and the Metropolitan Hilaryion, who is head of the Russian Orthodox Church, said that those who do not vaccinate that this is considered a sin in the light of these latest figures that are related to the delta strain in the Russian Federation. So, I say it's not a problem with risk groups, the risk groups are vaccinated and they don't need to be specifically persuaded, that expression of Christian solidarity or not has to be Christian, it's enough just solidarity is just a message for young, healthy people who don't see from some personal perspective that they should be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55398	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55399	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. You mentioned a letter from the president of the Croatian Medical Chamber sent six days ago to all members where we are all motivated to talk to our patients at the end of the examination, to answer their questions. From the very beginning, I ask every patient if he's been over covid, if he has any questions, if he's been vaccinated, etc. It's an extra amount of time, but I think we have to do it and we'll certainly insist on it. However, I am interested in your opinion, whether you are satisfied with the campaign so far, and do you think it would be useful for both the headquarters and the government to apologize to the citizens for all the mistakes that have been made, and that this way we are going with some new steps to motivate our people, to reverse the campaign so that as many people as possible accept vaccination. And we agree that there are people who aren't anti-vaxers but are simply under-informed, they don't trust, what do you think of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55400	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55401	Dear Representative Maric. As for the campaign, it can certainly be better, so the German government has invested 25m euros in TV videos, internet promotions, according to the Institute of Robert Koch, which has affected up to 2% of the total number of vaccines, requires optimal models, is required to be public figures, influenzars who follow hundreds of thousands of young people who will send a message that will be much more authentic and much more useful than the German government's health minister or Croatian government. As far as the apology is concerned, I don't see any particular reason to apologize, which should be apologized for, despite all the difficulties at all times, there was no lack of protective medical equipment, and I think the health administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have made every effort to ensure that all of them are cared for as needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55402	The last replica, the respected representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55403	Thank you very much. I contacted my colleague Cellic when he said in the first minute don't look for the culprit or Pedro, so for at least two hours nobody's looking for it, though we're as solid as Stier said, very solid, but we're looking for a recipe, we're looking for a piece, we're looking for solutions. America has solved it, Biden has welcomed his term of office with 20 percent, today is 60%. What's he doing? Davor Ivo Stier knows what the new president of America is doing? Change the directors of all agencies, a dozen of them, the director of the CIA, the director of the FBI and the director of the CDC, put Mrs. Walensky in place of Mr. Faucia's new vaccination program, and today is 60%. You have a prescription, take it. If you don't know, that's your problem. So we're not looking for guilt, we're asking that we finally go together to preserve the health of the nation, the economy and our euro. So in short, don't get between bonuses and malts, between carrots and beatings to pick a beating, give a bonus. Release the people of supplemental health insurance and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55404	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55405	Dear Representative Ostojić, within psychosocial interventions there is one, one method called the system of rewards and penalties. You can apply it in certain types of addiction, it's useful, it's just costing. So if you are now asking to be allowed, what can be discussed, additional health insurance for those who are now being vaccinated, what about those who have been vaccinated so far, we are going to reward them and free them from that supplementary health insurance for a year? You were the Minister of Health and you know how difficult it is to manage the health system. So, I think we should discuss everything, that repression is just a part that can't be dominant, can't be dominant, and that we all need to work together to keep the fissure as high as possible, and that's where I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55406	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55407	Thank you very much, Vice President, the Honorable Minister and Director, colleagues and colleagues. So as we can see before us, we have a report on the effects of implementing measures and the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease epidemic in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 16 January to 31 May 2021. and as it stands, it includes activities undertaken by the government, headquarters, state bodies and units of the regional and regional self-government, local self-government units and legal persons with public authority. Why am I stressing this? I think the most important thing here is to say that what will be the next report, or effect, depends exactly on us, not on us Assembly representatives, but on us responsible citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is recalled that after the intense wave that hit Europe, which reached its maximum in the Republic of Croatia in December 2020 followed a period of minor intensity that lasted until the start of the third wave which began in Croatia at the end of February and early March 2021. By approaching the tourist season, the focus of tourism is again needed, further stronger cross-sectoral cooperation is needed with the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, as we know in 2020, as a working group for the promotion of the Republic of Croatia as a safe tourist destination, a network of diplomatic consular offices that provided institutions and countries to the recipients of the main broadcasting markets data that is credible of the Republic of Croatia as a country that allows safe stay. All this time we know that the measures were changing, that we had security measures until 1 March one, that, for a time, the work of catering facilities and the provision of catering services were suspended, then limited work, could only be served on terraces or open spaces. We had restrictions on gathering and banning all public events and gatherings where more than 25 people are present and up to 22 hours and so on. The season has begun, we're proud of the figures we're recording. We have over 500,000 guests right now, which is more than 170,000 than 2020. We always compare the figures to the record 2019 and expect this to be far better than 2020. Fear, justified fear of all tourist workers is just thinking of September and the disaster we experienced in mid-August last year. Let's remind ourselves that then we scored ourselves an auto goal because of only 5% of the guests who come to our party. After the 10.8th numbers began to rage so that again the Republic of Croatia came to the red list, no one wanted to come to us for a summer and then two weeks to be quarantined. We've made 50% of the nights since the record year 2019, even though it was expected to be only 30%. Last year, a minor decline of course was recorded by those so-called. road destinations compared to those of the airport such as Dubrovnik-Neretva County, or the worst, has just passed the city of Dubrovnik. Let's not forget that last season was cut short just because of irresponsible individuals. Let us not forget that our 2021 season is precisely dependent on vaccination and respect for measures and that it will determine that the 2021 tourist will be determined by the epidemiological situation and the level of epidemic measures. Our summer has come, but that is no reason to fully relax even if the decline in the number of newly ill contributes to the feeling of relaxation. We know and we need to know that no one else will solve our problem, let's not expect everyone around us to split up, our guests, our old ones we want to help and hug and our young ones who go out and have fun. We're the ones who need to be vaccinated. And now that all of you who haven't been able to inject without notice, don't continue to be Europe's greatest optimists, and for a reason, that the epidemic will soon be over, that it won't touch you, that the disease is too high. I especially invite all tourist workers, tenants, hotelers, hosts because Malta is ready to wait for our gaffe and is ready to take over the guests of the Republic of Croatia. Malta has a split of 80% and it will use any slip of any country, tourist countries and European destinations, as well as Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55408	Time. Here we have a few replicas, the first respected representative of Nikolina Baradić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55409	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, here you come from a tourist resort, so it is important to stress that the key role for tourist results will play the perception that the guests will have about Croatia or whether our country will evaluate as a safe destination for their vacation. I would therefore like to praise the project "Safe stays in Croatia" together with HZJZ, whose data in Croatia so far have been vaccinated more than 60% of employees not only in the tourist system but also in the activities that are part of the travel chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55410	Thank you very much, colleague Baradic. True, vaccination as our minister has just announced today and called for the fact that the vaccination of all of us is a topic and, as the vaccine against covid says, is not your topic, you think, but as much as anyone who does not vaccinate will be part of the negative scenario, not just for themselves, but for their family, neighbors and their fellow citizens. If you want to prevent the achievement of collective immunity, if you want to endanger your and others' health, if you want to undo the efforts of all those who have been vaccinated, if you want to bear the blame for a possible fourth wave of epidemics, recharge hospitals and deaths, if you want to prolong the economic crisis, encourage job loss. From this pay phone, I think it's our duty to once again invite all those who aren't to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55411	The next replica of the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55412	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. By approaching the tourist season, cooperation of all stakeholders came back into focus, of course at national and local level. Vaccination of tourist workers has been approached and response has been solid. Realising that the key role for the tourist season will, of course, be the perception of all the guests in Croatia and about the fissure, but what I am interested in is how you comment that someone from a better split county, let's say my Ship-Posavia, where the first dose has already received 45.5% of the adult population in some of the Dalmatian counties where the split is worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55413	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55414	Thank you very much, colleague Maximchuk. I'm sorry to read that just now my Sibenik-Knin County belongs to one of those counties where the slightest fissure is. The latest data deny this, just about 60,000 doses of vaccines have been spent in our county, or 42,000 people have been vaccinated with the first dose, which is if compared to 83,000 active populations a solid percentage. But I'm afraid it's the kind of propaganda that leads to a certain guest choosing a destination where he's going to spend his vacation not to tell my county or any other place where there's a minor fissure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55415	Next replica, respected representative Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55416	A colleague of Martinchev read at the end of the post of Minister Beros today with a number of questions. It's not the minister's job to ask a question but to give answers, and your job is to help him, so help him. When you were mayor of Vodice, I was in the ministry, we solved the problem of Vodice, not me, the state, the ministry, we helped Vodice great in tourism. Now, please return it to Minister Berosha. Here's my credit to him. The man is in trouble, give him a number of amounts of money from TZ Vodice, all cities where HDZ and others in power and help the man, help HZZO, so return. So that's the key. We saved the health of the nation, the economy, and I commend the state again, we didn't have a curfew, we invested tens of billions of kuna, our doctor's mortality is minimal to Italy. Help man, Minister Beros is Minister of the Croatian Government, Mrs. Former Mayor, return what the Ministry of Health has invested in you, return it to him through the tourist community across cities, you have enough resources to put it into HZZO's treasury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55417	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55418	My colleague Ostojić, at the very beginning, told us all together we must help both the Minister and the Government to be as much of a fissure as possible and avoid a possible fourth wave. As for your credit for the City of Vodice, thank you very much, but I would say that the highest credit was given to the director of the Emergency Medicine Office by the present Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic. Thank you very much to her and to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55419	Okay. Congratulations on your choice. Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55420	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, you pointed out the importance of vaccination for a successful season, you said that here Malt is looking forward to some mistake to take advantage of it. I'd add that, remind you when a situation happened, for example. with Portugal as quickly as Germany reacted and introduced restrictions for travel to Portugal. So we are not talking about any theory but about situations that are really happening and that we must prevent in any case. So I think that your appeal to face very seriously and responsibly and each of us personally makes a free decision, but also to stick to public health measures and to be vaccinated is extremely important in these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55421	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55422	Thank you very much, fellow Stier. It is true that both Spain and Portugal have problems again, and we do not want what happens to them to happen to us. Earlier in reading some texts, I found that the biggest direct competitors of the tourist country in the Mediterranean of Cyprus and Malta, however, Cyprus slipped.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55423	Next replica, respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55424	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you said that we need a vaccination to save the tourist season, and I hope that this debate of yours and all that we are saying here today will really be an incentive for all our citizens in the counties where there is a weak fissure to split as soon as possible in order to really do so, in order to save not only the tourist season but, above all, the health of all of us and our guests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55425	Thank you very much, colleague Lukacic. Indeed, it is regrettable that out of the 5 counties with the smallest and worst fissure, there were as many as three Dalmatians. Here's by checking some data, it seems to me, or in the meantime, the figure and percentage have grown considerably, or maybe it's some records that aren't exactly set up in the same way in all counties, but surely it's one anti-tourism propaganda. I expect you to really like I invited and everyone from the tenant and the hotel and the caterers to respond to these calls. Namely, here is only in our county, without notice you can come and vaccinate in Šibenik and Knin and Drnis, and we will not allow us to have a 4th wave again and to end our season as last year on August 10th.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55426	Thank you. Now we're going to, it's been four hours and we're gonna take a air break by 6:00. So we're moving on at 6:00. [[ANNIGHT IN 17.50 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 1800 HOURS]] We continue with the work, the next individual debate, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55428	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Capak, colleagues and colleagues. If someone had said three months ago that in Croatia it would be a problem to vaccinate and split the Croatian population, they would have declared him a wicked prophet. That's exactly what we've got right now. We have a million and 300 million doses of vaccines and we simply fail to split up enough Croatian people. Here in this report is well-formed for health care, of course the Croatian nation, vaccination falls within the greatest reach of modern medicine and there is no speech about it at all and all those who speak in favour of vaccination, want Croatia well and here is what the Staff has been doing for 15 months. What I think is important is that we must disperse responsibility, it must be drawn out in all pores of Croatian society, from units of local, regional and of course national authorities. I think we have one problem that the ministers could work on and would make a significant contribution to the campaign, in order for as many people to be vaccinated, must be among the leaders of local self-government. We have the Chief of Staff, the municipalities, the cities, I think one mayor of any municipality or city shouldn't care how many people he's vaccinated. If he wants both economic and tourism or any activity, I think it's very important. So far, we have not used this instrument, our local leaders, local self-governments have their local radio stations, their local radio stations, their instruments to communicate with their residents, whether it's infrastructure projects, let alone when it comes to protecting public health. Here I think we can take a step further and it's simply something that should be recognized by both the National Headquarters and be distributed to local self-government units. A few good ideas are also related to rural areas. Croatia is a rural country and let's be honest that some people simply can't come to centres where vaccination is done and these mobile vaccination teams, whether it's buses or some other vehicles, are certainly something that can contribute to the short-term vaccination of as many people as possible. Today we listened to an interview or yesterday the Prime Minister's interview where there really is a simple solution for Croatia ahead of us, we just need to recognize it and articulate it. We've got a million and 380 million doses of vaccines right now in storage and we're going to vaccinate millions and 380 thousand inhabitants with what we've been injecting so far, and we've practically come to those 70% that are thought to be some kind of zone that can protect us from this pandemic. Therefore, all those who have spoken in favor of the campaign, I agree and with it, the campaign is something that has been going on for a long time, may refresh it with some new marketing things that people will better articulate, better recognize, but I think it is a great responsibility for us, who are talking to both this pay phone and all other media who are giving us the opportunity to say our opinions, as well as the opinion of our political platforms, and therefore I welcome all those who spoke today in favour of vaccination, who have spoken in favour of the fact that vaccination is precisely what we can provide, of course, and that we want to live in that time that was here until the beginning of that 2019, so here are you and Mr. Capak and the people in charge of our health, all of what we are about to say here is a good platform for some solutions that you will bring in time ahead of us. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55429	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55430	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, here, despite the reduced revenues due to limited economic activity, you have significantly increased the budget allocations precisely for the health system and the protection of citizens, and thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the vaccine has had enough, it has also been obtained in your debate, you have pointed out that the role of a state that was irreplaceable especially in the preservation of jobs, but you are right, you have pointed out in the debate that in fact the role of the unit leader of local self-government needs to be strengthened, it needs to be even stronger, even bigger, precisely in calling on its citizens to recognise that it is important to split, in order to help the success of the tourist season that we really need and actually need to work on this project to make local self-government leaders better communication and help them. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55431	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55432	Thank you very much. That's right, I don't think we can concentrate all the problems in one place like we can't even look for solutions in one place. What can help us and basically nothing will cost us, even more, to people who live in any space of local self-government, in the space of our homeland is that. So let's all get involved if we want to get to the number that everyone thinks is important for the preservation of health, and that's a 70% split, let's do this extra effort, and I think we're going to achieve that result. And what's important, it's not just about tourist resorts in the Republic of Croatia, and in Slavonia and Baranja there are tourism, there are events, there are socialities, KUDs haven't worked for more than a year, therefore, vaccination and vaccination alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55433	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55434	Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. In my county of Brod-Posavina, 45.5% of adults were vaccinated, at least once for now. Since the beginning, employees of the Institute and other healthcare professionals have gone into smaller environments, into our villages, yes, by sticking to the printing principles, that the place of action of doctors is where people live. The first one started with public calls, it comes without ordering, there's no traffic and of course there's no waiting. The profession is doing everything, giving its maximum contribution but I agree with you that both local leaders must make a greater contribution, not only to local leaders, all of us who are engaged in public action, we must give our pain in order to improve the fragmentation of our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55435	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55436	Yeah, thanks for asking. Of course, the regional self-governments were there, they were much easier because in their compositions they had public health institutions and then they can certainly do better, right now, there's been a debate about something that should be a measure of how we're going to disperse that from regional self-government we bring it down to local self-government and even local self-government that can help, there are people who know each other well, who can also do some propaganda activities that act quickly, invite people to split up and to achieve this result that we're trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55437	The next replica, respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55438	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, my colleague. As far as your exposure is concerned, I absolutely agree with you. We had a good example that local leaders were involved and that was the time when we couldn't get between the county, between the cities and so, when everyone got involved, that action gave us certainly good results back then for what time we needed. What Prime Minister Plenkovic is right behind the local elections, but very little, perhaps on the second or third day, has called on the county leaders, new, old, those who know what to do, those who have just come to the new ones so they don't know at all what their crisis officer is, and has just pointed out the need to improve the quality of the number of people vaccinated in their county. I must admit that I expected the same thing then the county would do with its local headquarters and would actually pass it on as good information and as a need. I think that's when your exposure shows that it wasn't done, and I think that's the way to actually go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55439	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55440	Well, let that be part of the conclusion of this debate, let the headquarters also put it as something that can contribute to better information for people and citizens on vaccination, and let this be the obligations of county headquarters that will be distributed to local headquarters. We heard at the beginning of this whole debate and from the minister how important these certificates are, how important it is actually going to be to have this COVID so-called. passport, how much will it give you the opportunity to participate in things that will be worked and to which man would like to go. So it's very simple for me to think that it's just that sometimes we deliberately know how to complicate it, so then we implicate it with both politics and all of what we really shouldn't have anything to do with the scale of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55441	Next replica, respected representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55442	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Comrade Ivanovic, you mentioned vaccination, vaccination, local leaders. We know that last second month we had elections for new mayors, mayors in over 550 units of local self-government, we know that over 70 were elected in the first round, that many received over 80 support. What do you think, would the fissure in these municipalities or cities be better and better if this particular leader invited his citizens, all those who supported him, and I believe those who gave him no support, to invite them to vaccination, especially in our tourist environments?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55443	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55444	Of course, I agree with what you're saying, but let's be honest, among some of these newly elected leaders there were those who even in their campaigns for local self-government said they wouldn't be vaccinated first and that they shouldn't be vaccinated, so maybe they're part of the votes and they get out of those who don't want to be vaccinated, but let's face it, they're a minority, you're certainly not the ones who are going to help us solve this problem. I think with all that's said here, we can do this step more and all that's more than this and it'll certainly be a lot more for Croatia for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55445	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55446	Thank you very much. I also think that local leaders should know what is happening in their space because they know when the towel is on the beach, on the sea side, that it should be removed, when the water is solved, or when it needs to be done, they all know it, the most important input is what happens to them with health care in their space, they don't know. ... I'm telling you, I live in a small community and I'm telling you that my leader doesn't know how many people have been vaccinated and we're all dealing with tourism, 95% of people, and if a 50% number hit him, he might be a little pleased but he'd probably be angry or something... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I don't think it's easy to get along, that data, given that many people have been vaccinated either by a doctor or otherwise, I don't know if there's software that can unite it, but I think it can be one help in the next 15 days that people know what's going on in their space, on my island, the whole, I don't know what's going on, we have 20,000 tourists, I don't know how many people there have been vaccinated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would be good to be encouraged but to tell those we don't think they did, that maybe they're doing it against themselves because I'm going to show it through the statistics later, what happened during the summer last year. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55447	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55448	I agree. Of course, local leaders often think that some problems will always be solved by others. The county has, of course, its public health institutions, so it's a problem of regional self-government, there's a state that has prescribed some measures and it's stayed in between and he wouldn't talk much about it, nor talk about it, because it might bring it to him, he doesn't know, something that would have exactly come to the public eye, but I still think, as we had in March 2020, that lockdown that some today told us that it wasn't good that we didn't let it go between the county, it was great, it was great, it was a measure that was important to prevent some things and economic activity didn't stop us. It was really one of the better measures and it proved effective, and that's why today we have the condition that we have and not so many pandemics have affected us as perhaps some other country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55449	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55450	Injury. 238, so I would ask representatives of the ruling majority to stop deluding Croatian citizens and assess on a flat-rate basis the success or failure of the measure. Based on what research did you assess? On the basis of what research did you consider this to be a good and successful measure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55451	Okay, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your position, opinion, replica, eventually, you get a second warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55452	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, a colleague of Grmoya asked on the basis of what parameters I was saying, and on those I lived because I was the head of the regional self-government headquarters and I can testify firsthand that these measures showed results at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55453	We have a warning because this was a replica to Mr. Grmoya. Followed by the last replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Ivanović, before you, discussed the principle of solidarity, you entered one in the debate, or you discussed another principle of subsidiarity. So that sometimes local authorities because they are closer to the citizens, they can do better than the central state to perform some functions and even in the vaccination campaign, obviously I can better understand both the mentality and needs of the local population, but it seems to me that the additional value of your debate was precisely that you warned that when we talk about the principle of subsidiarity, we are not only talking about the rights but also about the responsibilities of local self-government and in this context I wanted to stress it with this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55455	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55456	Thank you very much. Here, I totally agree, and maybe for the end here they are, maybe those local leaders are more popular than we are at this level of government, so they might get that success that we can't. Therefore, there is no right without responsibility, there is no better Croatia without sharing responsibility, whether it is an economy or a fight against the crown of the virus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55457	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55458	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Sanader, Mr. Minister of Honor, Mr. Capak, Minister. I just want to look at you and say what I'm about to say, these are my beliefs, so I want it to be constructive, to make you where you are, I'm here where I'm best for our people, for our citizens. It says in Sirah, “Do nothing without thinking, and you will not repent afterwards. ” There are a lot of questions and we have a lot of noises in communication and it seems to me that it's not good, maybe I came from the street because that's because it's not good communication, it's not good communication, it's emotional blackmail, tomorrow it's the second minister we'll only help those employers who have been vaccinated, so here it is for me, so I'll see what they're doing, so it's not good, it's not a good approach. So we who worked with people for 16 years I worked at school, 14 years in high school, so I couldn't say to a high school student "so you have to do it," I tell him, they look at me, "I won't, I won't." There's no reason, "I won't," but when you go to explain to him, when you talk to him, you get to something, this isn't good, you don't do good, it's not good. Is vaccination preventing the spread of COVID? The answer you have on the EMA pages, I read, ministers, I may be wrong, here I ask the question, “It is not still knowing how many vaccineed people may still be able to carry or spread the virus”. Okay, so we don't know the vaccine, you can't keep spreading, okay. We know that everyone who splits is safe from death, I know that from hospitalization and thank God that's how it is. But they're safe from those who haven't been vaccinated. It's not the Minister's word, it's the immunity of the over-experienced, at least it seems to me, or at least it's not spoken enough. Some research, I even prepared the paper, stayed there, 24 May The Nature published a great scientific paper and said that research shows that much longer duration, even years of immunity. We'd like you to explain that to us, to talk about it. Many patients have not been tested, most often symptoms are not serious, so they have not been proven by the test. For example. I didn't even know I had COVID. Without any symptoms, I ran six kilometers on day 11 and some people died badly. So you need to be reasonable, but I'm telling you that if I hadn't gone, you wouldn't know, Minister, you'd be walking around. So, the natural illness covida brings at least equal efficiency, I didn't say that, so epidemiologist Professor Dr. Ioannidis, so the man is from Stanford, so it's not, it's not, that I don't insult anyone of ours from some village. There was also an interesting reaction from 1352 Christian leaders, pastors, and intellectuals, who wrote a protest letter to Boris Johnson in Great Britain explaining why they do not think a covid passport should be introduced. We still have a portion of the hierarchical church in obedience to a foreigner, yes. It's amazing to me that no one has ever thought to suggest maybe the Minister's vaccination with synopharmame, for example, I read a lot, I'm researching, but here I'm just telling you. We know that he is available in Hungary, in the countries of eastern judges, eastern neighbours, and this is a classic vaccine like most paediatric vaccines, if I've read well in the subject I'm 130% and an activated vaccine containing a dead virus, with the addition of an immunogenicity enhancer. By the way, I'm a theologian, it's a morally pure vaccine, and now explain to us why you're better off not with it. ... But they also said it was morally acceptable, so you explain it to us. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're asking questions. Some HDZ colleagues are quoting the Pope here, I guess that's my area. Pope Francis said vaccination is one ethical option. I quote the Pope, I have prepared myself well, so feel free to give me the replicas, and most importantly, the choir for the teaching of faith in the official document that Pope Franjo approved clearly stated that vaccination must not be an obligation but an option, the fatherly advice used is what, but don't tell me you're not Catholic Marin if you won't vaccinate. I go crazy again, man, and then I send different messages again, so don't blackmail us. Professor moral theologian, our Catholic priest, so we all know him, who claims that vaccination like everyone, Tonči Matolić, forgives, as well as anyone else against seasonal flu should remain in the domain of the ad libitum of the individual. Talk to us, man, let's sit at the table, let's talk, don't make us something, so what's wrong with you, man, and it's not like we have a lot of Step-ins around us or at least a cook who has an attitude. Mortality of the covid or... So I'm reading the official data again. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Global number 0.15%, Europe and America 0.3%. We don't diminish a single man, not to God, each of us is equally valuable, but this is the data. And what's interesting is 90% of death, for example. in our neighbours in Austria, it happened in nursing homes among the older population. So let's talk straight about what's going on. So, let me be clear, please just give me three more seconds. So, my brother's a scientist in Japan, I don't know if he's vaccinated, my sister's a doctor in Sally, she's vaccinated, so my parents came to me and they said I'm going to take the vaccine, so go, so I don't have a problem with it, but I have a problem when the freedom of citizens is taken away and when you want to say it, you'll do it because you're not good citizens. Oh, no, you don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55459	Time, time, time. You have a little replica, stay. The first one is Honorable Representative Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55460	Dear counterpart Miletic, here is clear for information, the minister came out with information that indeed a new measure will be taken by the government of the Republic of Croatia, which will be further punished with, this time is no longer an emotional blackmail, but with mob blackmail, which is that there will be no payment of any support unless the covid is confirmed by the employees. So, on the one hand, entrepreneurs and employees are being blackmailed, so they won't get any support, on the other hand we can put the saw on the other hand, so there won't be any more payments from entrepreneurs and workers to the budget until they are vaccinated, so by ruling and by certain members of the ruling party of corruption. So, entrepreneurs yell at each other with taxes, with taxes, with, with mandatory intrusions and parafiscal intrusions, and on the other hand, they are blackmailed in this way. That's enough of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55461	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55462	Thank you, colleague Troscott, for this matter. I'd like to make myself clear. I think we all want good citizens because if someone doesn't want it right then I don't know what they're doing here, so I really think we might be looking from a slightly different angle, but it's all in our best interest that our people are alive, that our people are healthy and that our people are not threatened by basic human rights. That's what I think is in everyone's best interest, at least I hope. So, I don't think that even today some of us would be closing up in naked islands or somewhere else, I really don't believe it, but then, well, maybe someone, but well, we're not gonna be petty right now. So, but I'd like to go to see what we can do and the ministers, the respected Mr. Capak, so why are the million theories, why, we, we don't hear, we don't hear. So we act like citizens we question, we read, we Google, we watch YouTube, we listen to scientists, we watch and you have a hill, so invite people to sit down at the table and talk and see which way is the right way. This painting and the cardinal I love so much is whether, it's not gonna help you, it's just a riot in people, man. So, Bunt, all the time you're doing the wrong thing, I think I'd give you free piar advice, whoever was doing with people knows what you shouldn't do to get to a goal. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55463	The next replica of the respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55464	Dear fellow Members, I can agree with you in the part that the whole "Break Up" campaign is really wrong, that's what I was talking about. I also agree that better information is needed and that from all over the forest it is necessary to remove what are fake news. However, I'm interested because you didn't say that, and I think it's important that we all clearly determine here whether you're behind vaccination is the best way to not only protect ourselves but to protect ourselves and get out of this pandemic and whether you can now invite citizens from this stage and say that here I am Marin Miletic calling you to be vaccinated all of you who can, all of you who can, because this is responsible for the community, because we don't live as atomized individuals but live in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55465	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55466	Comrade Bencic, you know how much I respect you, especially your commitment to green politics and environmental science in our country, I really respect you, and I think you've felt it without having to fake it. Here, that's where I look at things a little differently. So I was very clear, my parents were vaccinated, I certainly didn't tie them up and put them in the bunker so they wouldn't split, so I don't think we're crazy, you know. But what we know is that this is an experimental vaccine, we know it's... It's not the Minister, so we know what we know, so here we go, let's go like this. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, I don't see a standoff in that, my colleague Bencic, I don't see a foothold in imposing something on people, imposing it and saying it's going to be that way or I see it if we pass those laws, but then we know who's responsible for financial and all that, so for certain difficulties that can arise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55467	Here, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55468	Just a quickie, Art. 238, as your colleague Grumoja asked the predecessor for a pay phone on the basis of which research is being called, please tell me by which research do you conclude that this is an experimental vaccine?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55469	So that was your replica and the question is, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55470	Maybe, thank you, you got a warning, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55471	You can't, you can't, you can't, you can't answer... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55472	What? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55473	The next replica is Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55474	Here's what we're going to do. We're going to give a colleague the opportunity to answer the question of what research this experimental vaccine is. In a way, I'm even glad that this exposure here took place because that's exactly what I was talking about. So the noise in the communication channel is created this way. This is the noise in the communication channel. So no, we're not all focused on the same goal here, and that's the goal of fighting the pandemic and fighting the pandemic. Those who think this is an experimental vaccine didn't come here with that intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55475	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55476	Here is what the democratic majority of HDZ and the Workers' Front agreed and let the Croatian public know. What's important, so dr. Alemka said in May last year that for a safe vaccine, to be exact, I have her quote, the interview was in "The Voice of Istria", it takes at least 3 years, that's what the woman said, so okay, it's not experimental but it's not safe, so that's what the doctor said from headquarters. She said it, so she said it. Therefore, once again, I think it is at the level of each individual and his freedom to choose whether to vaccinate or not, and we see that there are political currents here in HS, and it is important that the Croatian public knows this, which would impose something on people, is very important. I said again, so if the system, if the state thinks it should, then you know what to bring and I don't have a problem with that because it's legitimacy. And this is where you take people's freedom, let the Croatian public know what these are political options that take away the right to freedom and the right to choose, here they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55477	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55478	Injury. 238 for insulting the MPs, so we first said that we do not want to impose but that the free choice must be informed of the choice and that this information must be clear. And the fact is, as my colleague Katarina Peovic has now said, that you and your double messages in order to get 3 populist points are sending disinformation out on a vaccine that is not safe, which is not true, about so-called. an experimental vaccine, which is not true and thus create those 60 and 50% of people who do not want to be vaccinated and you will be responsible for creating such a climate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55479	Time, time, time, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55480	... Five seconds higher, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 seconds, 12 seconds please, Vice President. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, first naughty colleague Bencic...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55481	Please, please, Mr. Miletic, this has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The distinguished representative Bencic receives a warning, and the replica has Nikola Grmoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55482	Dear fellow Miletic, it is nice to see this synergy here We can!, the Workers' Front and HDZ, we had it in this disastrous law of restoration that they have brought together, and soon we will question their responsibility for not happening. So this is a democratic society where anyone can speak. I know you're not happy that you might be back in some time, but it won't work out for you, the fact that this vaccine didn't go through all those procedures that have passed the vaccines that our children are being vaccinated with, and these are facts, but that doesn't mean, that doesn't mean that fellow Miletic said that people don't need to, especially those who want to be vaccinated. Everyone will make a informed decision for themselves and will assess whether it is more dangerous to infect them than covids or to carry meaning possible side effects that exist with each medicine, including this vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55483	Time, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55484	Thank you, fellow Grumoji. My colleague, here's what I'd like to make very clear to everyone. So, Professor Dr. Ioannidis says that 10,000 times the risk of covid infection for an adult plus 75. but for a young person and now someone wants that young person to say, here are the children, for example. You have to be vaccinated at school. So, I'm glad the minister said he'd listen to the whole profession, be very careful, and in the end I would recommend parents to hear the same because they have the right to decide for their children. So, we live in a society where some, I'm glad that here's the ruling majority allows democracy, so different attitudes and thinking, and that's why I said I recommend that we discuss that there's no dialogue going away because then it's not good, and here we see the political options that would bring us back to which, in '45, poor mother.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55485	The last replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55486	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Miletic, you said that part of the Catholic cleric in Croatia, in the invitation to vaccination, showed obedience to one party, I don't know which party you were referring to, and I don't care to be honest or so important to you, but it's more important to me than anything else when you mention Claire. I believe you agree with the principle of "Acta, non verba", and then put aside the fact that Pope Francis said that opposition to vaccination is suicidal. I think you know that, that's what he said in January. Watch out, then, to show why he's taking the stand, he's inoculated and Pope Benedict. Therefore, your thesis as part of the Claires showed obedience to one party, I think he showed obedience above all to the Holy Father, so it is good that part of the highest Claire in the Catholic Church clearly was determined by the need for justification of vaccination not only in Croatia but also in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55487	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55488	So we Catholics listen to the teachings of the Catholic Church to the Holy Father when the ex cathedral is and when it's some dogma. Then we have an obligation of obedience. It's like this at the level of counseling where, according to his conscience, he's ours, we have a right, or if we don't want to, we don't have to. What I'd like to be clear about is my colleague Bacic. So, at no point did I tell the minister that people are not being vaccinated. I think I've really made myself clear. The fact that my left hand is collecting a political point will again, will not enter the Parliament another time if my colleague is Peovic. We know how much she got in Voting and Points, so people recognize that and people understand that. But on the other hand, I'm the one who encourages dialogue and wants to talk about hearing the other side and having the best solution for people, and not blackmailing our citizens, you're not going to get support if you don't, you're not going to do this and I'm telling you that this is causing rebellion in people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55489	Thank you, Mr. Miletić. No more replicas. We have a breach of Rules of Procedure Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55490	So it's 238 again. Demeaning counsel. We're not keeping our agenda here, so I'd like to ask you as chairman to warn, so if someone isn't sticking to the subject, and there was absolutely nothing on the subject here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55491	Okay. I appreciate your opinion, but you're getting a warning because in his speech, Mr. Representative spoke exclusively of the subject, and by the way, he mentioned democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55492	Here's because my colleague mentioned me, violation of Rule 238. I'm just telling the truth, and it's clear that the truth always hurts and the truth always waves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55493	Okay. You've now replicated, and you've been warned. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Mark Milanovic Litre. He is missing, followed by an individual debate between distinguished representatives of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55494	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and Mr. Capak. Do you want to take the blame for a possible fourth wave of epidemics, hospital charges, and people's deaths? No, this is not what I'm asking the Government and the Staff, I'm not asking a colleague who's out, but today the question has been addressed by Minister Beros to the citizens. Carrying the blame for people dying is not exactly the best way to mobilize people to vaccinate. If we were talking about co-responsibility, would we want to be co-responsible for a possible fourth wave? Whether we want to be co-responsible, but to bear the blame – well, we do live here and there were also talk of Christian solidarity, so in this country that I would say highly religiously split, it's interesting that this notion of guilt is thus imposed on people for responsibility for death. So I blame myself for a possible fourth wave and the death of people. Perhaps we could have motivated people better, perhaps if the minister or his team had looked over 400 pages, the Croatian psychological chamber had created a book on the crown, the virus and mental health. We've been saying that today we don't have a team of people to deal with, so maybe our cases here would deserve some extra attention. Perhaps a slogan from that book that says: It is not only a virus that is contagious but also love and understanding, so here we could add solidarity. If you want this very Christian solidarity. Green-left block is another 5. On November of last year, he proposed a conclusion to improve the model management of the covid crisis, and in particular he stated not only to align the work of the Civil Protection Staff with the Constitution because here we still have problems with whether something is banned or something to force someone to vaccinate. But what was important and what we suggested, and we proposed, so seven months ago to strengthen citizens' trust in crisis-management institutions. What we would do, in order to complete the implementation of an existing management plan for this crisis, is to secure investments in hospital facilities, so to strengthen the Civil Protection System. We suggested it all, but since we're opposition, then of course we've only pointed out once and before that the Staff wants to be a loser in this situation instead of perhaps hearing any other voices. I took a look at what our demands were, since we received an explanation from a representative of the Ministry of Health who told us that, of course, he did not support the submission of our proposed conclusion because the crisis was reacted in good time, and they were taking steps and are constantly taking measures that are most appropriate at the time. Because I'm a linguist, so when you have such a continuous measure is being taken. Which means continuously, if these measures are not uniform, they are not uniform, they are not non-discriminatory to anyone. So we can't talk about continuity, especially when it's added that are at a given point most appropriate. Define the days of the moment. This means from today to tomorrow, these measures can be different, because this is the given moment, and then we lose citizens' trust, we lose it in a way that institutions that manage the crisis, and first of all, the Staff that we all know of, of course, the political body. He's just lost his trust to communicating with someone like me up there, but also to unequally introduce the criteria of measures. Today they all said it hasn't been 500 days we seem to be very much, but we all remember how the measures were taken differently for different subjects and even for some entities that we might expect here to be a little better support, and that's what we said so the local community chiefs, well, we had local elections we could support, so I believe you could ask Kaptol that few of our citizens don't speak the way a colleague used to say. Here I think it's crucial that we can't threaten sanctions like we were threatened and that's also unconstitutional. and selective. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] But more importantly, we can't say that we're to blame for the possible fourth wave and the death of other people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55495	Replica, Honored Representative Ivan Celić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55496	Dear Representative Boric, you spoke here as a linguist of guilt, responsibility. Sin, guilt is more of a spiritual category. I believe that there would be a more measuring colleague, Miletic, who used to speak and it would probably be better quality to hear on the subject than he did on what he said. You also mentioned psychology. So there's a shrink and a psychologist all the time at the Crisis Station. So mental health issues. But here, the way that it would marketing is part of the psychology of marketing that deals with promotional campaigns is how the best concept of a return to freedom, and I believe that you would agree on how to present it and thus contribute to a greater flow of citizens is certainly a better subject than guilt or sin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55497	I agree with you. I mean, if we were to talk differently in the campaign of our faces, our faces here were all spent, too. They don't have to be mad at us. These faces were spent in a way that they were spent because they weren't consistent. But tell me that tomorrow you see that one of us, there was no colleague here today who survived the covid, how did he feel, what was he doing? To do a campaign with ordinary people who talk. Today, when the minister spoke, we were shut up with that information about how long the Joint Chief of Staff worked. We're how it's called Googled. We need to find a way not to run the campaign. We have to have what's known is oral history. So, it tells ordinary people how they survived the covid, which for their families means that. Believe me, he'll have more success than we do today and how the same faces that are unfortunately not trusted do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55498	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Capak. By reading this report, we could conclude that the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia is under control and that there are no problems or possible deteriorations in the epidemiological situation. We have been given many numbers, tables, all the decisions made by the famous Chief of Staff and those that are still in force today. But I haven't come across any warning anywhere, any possible projections of further development of the epidemic, no current analysis of the situation in Europe, and possibly don't give God the deterioration of the situation over a recent period. That's not a single word, and that's the main question that goes on. The virus didn't disappear, it wasn't defeated, no matter what the prime minister announced a year ago that he was defeated, but the virus didn't listen to him, and he remained there among us. And now what weapon do we have against this virus? Of course the vaccination. But as we stand with that, we have repeated it a thousand times today, only 43.2% of citizens and citizens are vaccinated not enough to wait calmly for the further development of the epidemiological situation. This figure only determines this report, does not analyse, does not trouble it, does not give guidance or programs how to increase this figure, how to achieve greater protection of all citizens and citizens, and thus, of course, ensure and facilitate jobs and preserve the resulting natural and sustainability of the state budget. I dare say it is extremely irresponsible to miss it in this situation too few vaccinated in the Republic of Croatia. We only have a very strict and ghastly prime minister who commands vaccination and the Staff who, unfortunately, has been so compromised by violating his own measures that he is simply no longer convincing. And our prime minister and his ministers are also announcing restrictions on those who don't split, who, of course, we know the restrictions never gave birth to any great fruit, they won't do it now and we all really know it. But why not try positive examples, explanations, education, conversations? The citizens are surrounded by a mass of information. There are, of course, 1,000 unchecked, various constructions. But who of these people can manage in the Internet's impasses? Why no further efforts are made, mobile teams are organised to go out in the field, talk to people, and arguments encourage them to vaccinate. Why not, for example, work on special shows on public television, which is why it is public and that is why we all pay this subscription from which we will talk from day to day to day to experts and citizens, every day perhaps from another place and visit TV cameras throughout the Republic of Croatia and raise awareness of the need for vaccination as the only defense against the virus far from being defeated. Let's look at Spain, let's look at Cyprus, Zadar County unfortunately and why we're closing our eyes in front of the obvious indicators that last year's break of the tourist season can be repeated. We don't need a dark, hard father who threatens us. We need a reasonable and compassionate man and a citizen with the right to fear, have the right to doubt, have the right to even believe in the unspeakable conspiracy theories. And it's up to the government of the Republic of Croatia to reduce fear, break doubts and beat conspiracy theories. A difficult task, yes, an extremely difficult task. But at least half of this report should have been dedicated to this task. There's a responsibility at headquarters. You know yourself that unfortunately you are no longer convincing or credible and forgive me but I must tell you in the interest of the health of the citizens you should withdraw and give space to some new people, new experts who, with new energy and new ideas, would honestly and crediblely move towards a continuation of the fight with the epidemic. I have been vaccinated with two vaccines, I have done it to protect my family, my colleagues, my friends so that our children can reunite freely at school, so that young people can live their youth freely, that workers don't have to worry about their jobs, that the older population doesn't have to be locked up in their rooms for months. I vaccinated, I'm proud of it because I contributed to protecting everyone and I did it despite the inconclusiveness and consumption of the Staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55500	The next individual debate, respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55501	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Minister, colleague Capak. I will use this first part to thank all the employees of the Croatian Public Health Service of fellow Capaka because throughout this time pandemics have made a wise, smart and truly valuable series of recommendations, a number of quality solutions often looking for a bunch of ways to come up with a solution and they have indeed shown in this epidemic that those who can manage and who are actually based on their decisions were making decisions by the Staff. This system is actually a health care system shown in this report and I welcome it, but here's an emergency medical service has come down to one sentence of pure naked data. So since I'm coming from emergency medicine, let me still say what the paramedics really are, what they were doing during this epidemic and to supplement this report a little bit. The emergency medical services during the entire course of the covid disease epidemic 19 continued to adapt to the current epidemiological situation by organising their work in line with the care of newly ill covid 19 patients and all other emergency patients in order to provide immediate medical care. During the entire period of the pandemic, employees used personal protective equipment according to recommendations from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which was provided by the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia. The importance of triage has been particularly reflected in the exceptional circumstances of the coronary virus pandemic, as it was the process involved to respond in an infrastructure and quality manner to this epidemiological challenge. The emergency medical system has also been introduced using rapid antigen tests to ensure the rapid triage and handover of patients to an appropriate hospital health care facility, while also reducing the possibility of a coronary virus breach into the health system. In accordance with the decision of the Civil Protection Staff of the Republic of Croatia on the introduction of the necessary measures of the Emergency Medical Service and Sanitary Transport during the declaration of the outbreak and disease of Covid 19, the Ministry of Health collected and analysed daily data on the work of all emergency medical services units of the district and regional self-government, so from the beginning of the pandemic to the present day, emergency medical staff had a total of 430 830 000 interventions outside the field, which means on the ground, and 355 950 interventions in the reanimation facilities, respectively, in their clinics. A total of 925 and a half thousand sanitary transports were carried out. Of the total number of interventions 18.3 was for covid positive patients or for suspicion of covid, and from sanitary transports 7.4. The Croatian Institute of Emergency Medicine organised and conducted additional training of healthcare professionals involved in the implementation of vaccinations on the subject of identification and management of persons with allergic reactions to the latest guidelines, and enabled a number of platforms for the exchange of knowledge and experience of persons who worked and cared for covid patients not only for emergency medicine but also for a number of other activities. The Ministry of Health also daily monitors the availability of free facilities in emergency acute hospitals in OHBP and, if necessary, requires an increase in hospital capacities for isolation with the aim of ensuring timely provision of emergency medical care to its patients. Given that crisis situations can occur suddenly and unexpectedly, anywhere at any time, and that the task of the health system is to reduce and prevent the same needs for further education of healthcare professionals, but the citizens are still extremely large. It should be pointed out that emergency medical staff are largely vaccinated or out of the hospital. We must all participate in this response. I call you all once again, and I pray and appeal to you no matter how we go back to normal for the health system, that we no longer have the situation we've had. Let's do everything as public figures. Let's invite everyone to split, so we don't hear from the assembly anymore, not answer the question of whether you're a co-worker or not. That sends a very bad message.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55502	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55503	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Maya. The fight with covid has been going on for 15 months and we've been through all these stages. Many people suffer from covid in Croatia, but that does not mean that they are cured. Even as many of these people today suffer the great consequences of covid’s disease. What do you do and how do you help those people in the time ahead of us to get out of that situation and to say that they are completely healed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55504	Dear colleague Ivanovic, you've just said so well. So it's a serious disease that we've been warning from the beginning of all of us working in the health system. That disease doesn't end with the day someone comes out of isolation, you know that a lot of, a lot of patients have post-covid symptoms that really represent life problems. I think it's very short behind when these problems came to light, when the waist said that people show up some can't sleep, some have other symptoms, some have prolonged cough, any of these symptoms. I think the Ministry of Health is very, very early that the minister will know better react in such a way as to satisfy the profession, i.e. to support it in the way of setting up a post-covid infirmary. These are specialized hospitals where specialists of various professions work to actually look multidisciplinaryly at a patient and make a decision and help him get out of this post-covid syndrome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55505	The next replica is a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55506	Thank you. My colleagues, I think you will be able to answer this question in view of your work experience. So I personally know the person who went to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in Split in April, where she was found positive by a quick antigen test. She's cured of happiness without any more serious consequences. After the EU covid certificate was released, she tried to get it. It failed because it can only be obtained by establishing a disease through the PSR test. The doctor doesn't advise her to be vaccinated so soon after she's over and she's in some kind of deleted area right now. Would it not be more logical to solve such absurd administrative problems than to force people to be vaccinated by repressive methods?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55507	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55508	Dear colleagues, I absolutely agree with you, such cases are known, not the only ones you're talking about right now. Each of us has experience in his own life or in some other part, so we're doing that part of the intervention. Yes, it did happen you're right, there are such patients, and I think it's one situation that the Health Ministry expert group already has information about. So it's known and it's working on a possible search for a solution to actually sort of solve it. But to be resolved, I agree with you, I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55509	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55510	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs and you, as a witness and as a civil headquarters, you have been a local community all this year and you can really testify in trouble, in this pandemic that has indeed destroyed not only Croatia but the whole world. I'm sorry there aren't any of our colleagues. If indeed after all, the whole situation today we can ask who, whether we are for vaccination or whether we are and who is for it, who is not for it. I think it's one responsibility to each other, to our family, to our children, to our parents, to our entire system and economic. There's no one to command, there's no command line here. This is one responsibility where the whole world has faced one disease that is beyond our human reach. Here I am asking you, as a witness to the profession, to call again and really explain in that context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55511	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55512	We heard today, colleague Deur, we witnessed today that even such an important thing as vaccination is something that brings us our life the way we learned it. We were witnesses here to connect parties, to politicize it. Well, that's grief and trouble. I can't actually believe that stuff like that, that someone's thinking of not showing it off this pay phone, that people are being vaccinated, let people live the way we've lived before. Without vaccination, it's a medical history we're not gonna get rid of this trouble. Thank God we got that vaccine as fast as we got it with that vaccine going through all the clinical research just here was lucky that it was in that vaccine the whole of Europe had and the whole world had invested, put in one place all those experts. There was no development of the vaccine as previously developed. This is a lot of resources, and this is why we got the vaccine, and we certainly didn't get it because some part of the clinical study was skipped. It's the same story that doesn't make sense to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55513	The next replica is the respected representative Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55514	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, no matter what you are ruling, I agree and join the appeal, and we keep saying that people should really be called to vaccination because it's the only tool to stop the pandemic and we should continue to do so. I also agree with the fact that the emergency service carried a huge burden during the pandemic as well as all other health workers would take advantage of the opportunity and pointed out that I was also glad that this report acknowledged that the doctors of family medicine even though there were 20% less arrivals in the infirmary especially during the lockdown, but they had 40% more work to do with the pandemic than solving contacts, which treatment of people, which vaccination etc. And I believe you'll agree with me that they were inappropriate statements you remember on the Health Committee when HZZO's director insulted his family colleagues that they hadn't done anything in a year. So it can't be that bad communication, I believe you'll agree. So, you have to admit to the employees for everything they've done, listen to what problems he's having. and not insult them. [[Invader Sanader: Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55515	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55516	I agree with you, so I'll give you more if you allow me to complete. So, apart from what they were doing, the way family medicine doctors worked, they quickly took advantage of all the technology that enabled them to keep in touch with their patients. So, you know very well that now people don't know what the doctors of family medicine were doing to come, that is, to provide the patients with the service they needed and everyone in this crisis, all the healthcare professionals and not the health care professionals who work with us and those who work in the social community, and both those who work as help to this entire civil protection system have suffered a great burden. And for that reason we're going to vaccinate that it's not happening to us again and that we can devote ourselves to our patients, all the way we really should, and not looking at whether we're going to have places with patients and what we're going to do. We need to get back to normal. We need a vaccine. We all know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55517	The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55518	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, here I would like to touch once more the covid of one project that has been done in an extremely professional, top-notch way. This morning, on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, we heard the presentation of State Secretary Gras and Secretary of State Dulibic about this project, about its creation. And here are all the praises of Minister Beros, Minister Bozinović and the entire team who participated in the implementation of this platform absolutely all praise for its functioning, but also for the availability of whether through the application of citizens, or directly in HZZO, as Minister Beroš said only by further splitting and issuing a large number of digital covid certificates will be possible further co-existence with the covid 19 virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55519	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55520	I agree with you. That's very nicely presented today. Finally, the funds have already arrived, which we have invested in from Europe, and it should be mentioned somewhere how quickly we did it. We are one of the first countries to actually align these covid passports with the European way of thinking. And what I say to myself personally I'm going to say now purely personal, so the covid passport of course happens that someone can't report that this and that which, however, is so quick and elegantly removed. For me it is, for the administration it is actually something that should certainly be pointed out. So whoever isn't listed gets rid of it quickly, they're all looking for solutions in one day. To me, this is an outstanding example of how it can actually work when we all have the same goals and we all have common goals. This is what we need to strive for, and of course we need to propagate that as many people as possible join the e-citizen as possible because it's much simpler, easier with three clicks to get confirmation than to stand in HZZO and wait in line. But here's what we all have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55521	Time. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55522	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed Director, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The last time we discussed the report by the Staff here in the Croatian Parliament was on the basis of a conclusion proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club in December last year when the Croatian Parliament was asked once a month to discuss the report of the Staff on the fight against the Covid epidemic. But today’s debate and an almost empty assembly says that our proposal to discuss the report of the Staff three times a year was quite optimistic about the interest of a part of the MP on the covida epidemic. This report, which has been delivered for 5 months, and the entire work of the Civil Protection Staff or better said relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the Covid 19 epidemic in Croatia, shows that we have been properly approached, primarily by the constitutional possibility of using Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which allows human rights and freedoms in Croatia to be limited exclusively by the basis of the law to protect among other things the health of Croatian citizens. And we have done so, according to this article, the Constitution of the Civil Protection System Act as the basis for public action and the Law on Public Protection, which was amended, the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, which was passed by law by means of a series of measures that the Staff, on the proposal of the Resistent Minister and Expert at the Ministry of Health and at the Croatian Institute of Public Health, proposed to combat the outbreak of the covida 19, i.e. Corona virus. And I think that, in this way, in view of both constitutional and legal terms, and in health terms, we have been very well placed as a state in the fight against covida 19. Not only have we set ourselves up in these two, therefore, constitutionally-legislative and in health terms, but we have, as a rare state in Europe and the world, exposed ourselves to the real sector, hence to the private sector in the past year and three months, when nearly 17 billion kunas are included and exemptions from the contributions to the support provided for to preserve jobs, to preserve the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurs and to preserve their business activities. It's behind us. We say that behind us there are three wave of epidemics that we have faced during these 15 months as long as the covid 19 epidemic in Croatia takes place. However, a question arises as to how to proceed. The government, in my opinion, and for us at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community did what it was meant to do. It has provided what is most important at this time and what is only available for an effective fight against the epidemic other than the measures prescribed by the Staff and which we have witnessed over the past 15, 16 months and which has been ordered almost and secured through the foreseeable time almost 9 million doses of the vaccine. At this point, you have a million and 300 thousand doses at your disposal, and I think we need to do everything we can to animate, encourage, motivate our fellow citizens who are not vaccinated to vaccinate. Today, here from our colleagues on the left, I hear what the government is doing to encourage us on the one hand, and on the other hand, if something's done, then it's welcome to the knife. One measure to ensure that the covid of support is not paid for workers to entrepreneurs for their workers who have no covid support welcomed on the knife as if it were discriminatory, unfair, anti-constitutional, etc. etc. I think that we are witnessing that the state, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is leading by means of solidarity allowing something that is not mandatory, which is Covid's support to give to the real sector and to all citizens or workers, or we can still tell the taxpayers to keep their jobs, given that it is not her obligation to expect both that taxpayer and citizen or worker to do everything among other things and respecting the measures available to us to preserve the health of the state, to vaccinate and nothing else. And in that, and in that the relationship between the state and the taxpayer should be solid, take care of that [[Intruder: Time.]] to taxpayers who allocate funds so that the other person can work and preserve his job. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55523	Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55524	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you have well noticed that this conclusion of the HDZ still made sense because looking at today's debate, to discuss every month these reports would probably just argue about how much there was or how much of it wasn't from some perception, the shade of opposition in which you don't correspond for any practical reason. And, of course, always looking for certain resignations or the entire headquarters or the minister or the entire government, etc. I think the results regardless of the attempts to prove themselves can be compared to last year, and I'll talk about it when I have an individual discussion, so we'll see where we are and what vaccination may or may not mean, because we seem to have been, say, last year at this time, almost without any active infections and no people who have been infected, etc. 'Cause that's how the season used to happen to us. This year it's much better 30 to 40% indexes are better than last year, and we'll see the results. And we have to respect that. Now, is it responsible for someone in the opposition saying that this is an experimental vaccine so don't be vaccinated because you don't know what's going to happen to you, it's on them, but obviously they're more involved in politics or some kind of political little score? They're interested in what's really going on in this country. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55525	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55526	I thank my colleague, Boric, it would take a lot of time to reply to your replica, what I can say, and what I said in the opening. So the state is absolutely right about this epidemic. In the society of the world's most developed countries, the country of the world where we are in the community, which is the Russian Union to be 14, so in the upper group of EU member states by the cumulative number of diseased bohemian successes. So, I think it's a success, it could have been better, but by the number of deaths we're worse off somewhere, but we're still somewhere around 9, 10 places in Europe on millions of people I'm talking to, like, a million people. It says that both in health and constitutional law and in economic terms in terms of the epidemic, we have been properly set up, and in particular we have to take care of it. In this context, we also experience these measures announced by the government as a struggle for Croatia's economic recovery through quality and good tourist season. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55527	Next replica Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55528	We've often heard from your colleagues here a syntagma that this is the current state of affairs. Uh, excuse me, that this present state, so we've often heard from your colleagues a very similar state of war, meaning in the Homeland War. [[Intruder: If you can take off the mask.]] I can agree with that assessment, but then I'm interested in the reason that the workers in the health system were not treated in the way that they treated those who were on the first line of defense, and that means why the benefits of the training had not been provided to health workers. Many health workers experienced these Covid supplements more as an insult than some kind of reward because of the very low amount present in these Covid supplements. I know you may also be able to justify that you can't give any more, but then the solution really was what the Workers' Front proposed, a dual-term internship or whatever, means but somehow through the internship, you reward those who were really hard at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55529	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55530	So I can partly agree with you that health care professionals have borne the greatest burden in the fight against the epidemic, it is not at all controversial and then the minister in the closing statement will answer you and to that part, but many of our fellow citizens have also brought or bear the burden of fighting Covida-19. Not to the extent that they put up with it, especially nurses, doctors, so those who are active in the health system, but also many other citizens had direct contact, social workers, etc., had contact with the sick, cared for and cared for. Therefore, whether Covid himself supported or added to healthcare professionals was sufficient to be told later by the minister, but I think that as a state, all taxpayers will again fall on all taxpayers to preserve both the economic system and the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55531	Thank you. Next is an individual debate, respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, Mr. Capak, respected colleagues and colleagues, so here I will look briefly at the part of my brief debate on the report on the effects of implementing measures and protection laws, which are related to the field of labour and social policy. So the pandemic caused by the coronary virus as we know it caused disturbances everywhere and so on in the labour market. The timely establishment of safeguard mechanisms, support for the preservation of jobs has significantly mitigated the negative consequences and has prevented a sharp rise in the number of unemployed. The government's goal was to maintain a low unemployment rate through help to preserve jobs. Supports, which have been implemented since March of last year, have been continuously adapted to the needs of the economy, and the following support has been implemented. Support for the preservation of jobs with the aim of preserving jobs in employers who, due to the special circumstances of the coronary epidemic, were affected by economic activity, altitude and support, up to 4,000 kuna per month per worker working full-time. Furthermore, support for reducing working time with the aim of preserving jobs in employers who, due to the special circumstances of the coronary virus, have experienced a temporary decrease in the size of work, the amount of this support up to 3600 kuna per worker. And support for the preservation of jobs in protective and integral workshops and working units for the employment of disabled persons whose activity has been affected by the coronary virus with the aim of preserving jobs in employers who, due to the special circumstances of the coronary virus, are affected by the economic activity and the height of this support up to 4,000 kuna per month by a full-time worker. All these support covers over 120,000 employers, or nearly 700,000 workers, and more than 10 billion kuna are paid. And what we can see despite the exceptional circumstances of the coronal virus, the number of insurance companies is higher than the number of insurance companies in 2020 and 2019, according to HZMO data in 2021. In order to protect older people and persons from other vulnerable groups who are recognised as the healthiest Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy since the start of the epidemic, it has been continuously supporting service providers in the social care system since February 2020, resulting in an extremely small number of infected persons using the accommodation service and has been established in this respect by the Covida-19 epidemic prevention and control commission on older persons and persons from other vulnerable groups. Furthermore, the outbreak of infectious disease, Covid-19, made it difficult to carry out the activities of the welfare system, so it was necessary to amend the Social Care Act or to supplement the Social Care Act, all with a view to making a special event Make it easier to function [[Intruder: Time.]] So mobilization of workers, etc. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55533	Thank you. Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55534	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Mr. Capak, colleagues and colleagues, we have here a report in front of us for the past slightly more than six months, in fact something a little less when we talk about the date, but here's what we've been looking for, to discuss, and probably the intention of these reports was to contribute through our debate to tell people who are responsible for certain implementation of measures and to take measures to say what we think and suggest we should do to make it better. However, we have come down to certain criticisms and are mainly looking for resignations or departures or the entire government, the prime minister and then all the people who care about our health system. I looked at some statistics last year on today and some other days compared to this year. Last year, on today, we had 52 infected this year, 141, 1 died last year, 3 this year. Total number of active then in the Republic of Croatia last year 934 and this year 596. Is that a message that vaccination says something or does it mean something? I think that no matter what we have a problem, which is that we are obviously starting to grow in these last days, and that is the responsibility among our citizens, but also for all of us to point out the importance of vaccination. We were then at the end of the first wave, the elections were over if we remember 5.7., we had until then 3272 at the whole time when we were infected for two months. Today's number of 360,246 is total. So nearly 356.000 more of these years were infected in the Republic of Croatia, and the number of deaths from the current 114 came to 8219. And what we went through two and three waves was terrible. First we waited for all that vaccine, when it came at the 12th month when the signs started and the beginning of the year everyone said we wanted to vaccinate, wait for that vaccine and so on today. Today is a very different message, we're not going to vaccinate. Let those who are vaccinated answer for themselves, but also for our freedom that we do not need to be vaccinated and thus contribute to the common goal, which is to be at about 70, 80% of the cleavage and that we can return to normal life. These are messages that are being sent to us daily, and the figures show that it's not good. We have, in the very period of this report, been saying five months and a little bit more than three and a half thousand more dead than we had 16.1. Last year. Do we want another three and a half thousand dead or more or less by the end of this year? It's up to us as citizens, and for us politicians to send certain messages, not this level, it's an experimental vaccine, we're all about being vaccinated, but it's an experimental vaccine, as we've heard from a fellow in MOST. What do you say to that? What kind of message is that? So there are still those who want to deal only with politics and politically light points that will be seen when, in 3 years, by then, we have people we have to worry about. And I'm really trying to get to understand what's going on in our Adriatic Croatia with all the counties, because it doesn't contribute to what we wanted. And that's one safe season where everyone who comes to us, who comes with their confirmations, means they're either vaccinated or tested or they're over, to be safe and not to be the ones who make the problem. I don't know how many tourists got infected this year. We don't have that kind of information. Probably no one because everyone's here in some way let's say they're ready to spend their vacation here and that's our most important story. But what we're doing, if it's below 50%, is I'm looking at my County of Primorje-Gorski, I didn't know we were right behind Zadar at the border to become a space that could have a problem tomorrow. I didn't know. Here's what I learned today from some of the data that came out because it obviously doesn't contribute. And what we're going to do in Dalmatia or anywhere else where it's not happening in the extent that we want it to be what we wanted from the first day the pandemic started, is probably when everyone would say otherwise and everyone might want to protect themselves. Some of us were supposed to wait 2023. 12 months, the safety of the vaccine to keep everyone inoculated. And that would be like a message. I think everything shows that we have every reason to send better messages than what's happening to us today in the media space because we show that we obviously don't understand the weight in which we obviously live. Last year it all started on 15.8th with 214 newly infected then the numbers started to grow, there was a reaction of all states, we pull everyone back. Are we waiting for that this year? Cannot initialise Evolution's mail about 200 or 300 newly infected. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55535	Replicated representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with your position as colleague Boric. In fact, when we talk about the need, responsibility for the state of our nation and Croatia's health, then we also take care of the economic strength clearly. We wouldn't want last August to happen again and suddenly stop the tourist season, and we're aware of what's going on in Portugal. Greece has witnessed a double increase in the past two days, I think there were about 800 and something infected in Greece on Monday, now 1800 on Tuesday, in one day more than twice the number of infected. So unless we're careful, responsible, unless we approach the vaccinated, I'm afraid, and I wouldn't want.../incomprehensible/... a prophet not to repeat last August to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55537	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55538	Thank you very much. This is why we are also using this debate to send positive messages to citizens who are also carrying part of their responsibility for everything that is going to happen in the future, because I think that this Adriatic Croatia, when we look continentally, is not as much of a problem as under us, is shown by the results and seven-day incidences, but obviously we have a problem and we approach it easily. That is why today and through the debate, we have asked that local leaders, especially in that section, may be activated. Do they know what's happening to them? Let's just say I asked my doctor to tell me the data and my community is at 50% if it is, so that's not good enough for us to say now that it's something that guarantees that you'll have the season until we want it, and that's the 9th month and that's the right thing to do. So let this responsibility work, no one has to say for themselves that he is the most responsible for what he does or does not do, but that these actions are still to the benefit of all the citizens who live there that they also say some of their words that can contribute to people understanding what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55539	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55540	I thank the chairman. Comrade Boric, you asked at one point what is happening to our Adriatic counties. Well, except for the Primorje-goranska where the cleavage is good, I would advise you to ask your mayors for these others, because these are HDZ Countys. So tell the rest of us what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55541	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55542	Thank you very much. My colleagues, it's a story or a piece of information to discuss. We are at 50%, but we have after Zadar County the worst moment per day for the number of infected and overall infected. Then what's going on? So that's the question. And now I see that our county headquarters is making some moves and saying no more gatherings without Covid confirmation of more than 20 people, etc., events etc., so he wants to react. And when the county talks, and yesterday I listened to the director of the Public Health Service who says we're at the border. So, we're looking at one Istria next to us, so the character next to us, and then down to Zadar County that already has a problem, etc., is it the interest of all of us to do it? No matter who's mayor or not mayor, but what we do is we do differently and 15.8. doesn't happen to us what happened to us last year. There were no rules last year, there are rules this year. It will certainly be used.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55543	The next replica is held by Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55544	Dear fellow Boric, as in this report, there is no moment of self-criticism or recognition that something bad has been done out of your step, it turns out that the people are no good. You have no responsibility at all, and you have no authority over the entire process, but the people are guilty. And why doesn't the people trust you? So maybe it comes from the fact that he's not a health minister at the head, but he's an expert in general defense and social self-defense, which is a unique example in Europe. So maybe you started from the reality show you made from headquarters, the daily press conference where the people were bombed with that daily information, and there was no report in the assembly for 10 months. Now Mr. Bacic wonders why he's not full of Parliament, so here we were asking questions, the minister defends himself with silence. He hasn't answered any specific questions, nor has he spoken to us. Well, the vaccine was delayed by the arrival of the vaccine when it came, people close to the non-risk groups grabbed it, so there was a decomposition on the ground, so there was a breakdown of the system maintained by some florists, so there was a contradiction between the members of the government's scientific advice. And then we wonder why people are confused and they've lost their trust. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55545	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55546	Thank you, dear fellow Rasudiæ, no one here has said that the people are no good, that we are discussing and calling on citizens to do what they should do means that we would all be more secure and live differently than we are now. This may have come out of your mouth, you obviously have a party problem today and you deal with some different policies, we see how it ends in both public and how it happens to individual MPs, and that's how you'll deal with it. What I'm proposing here, I suggested something, and if someone is going to adopt it, but on that side you're asking certain questions, but when we need to get to responsibility, then your colleague comes in here and says it's an experimental vaccine and gives us a five-minute lecture that nobody needs to be vaccinated because he doesn't know what's going to happen in a year or two days. It's your policy, I listened to it here, no. If you.../incomprehensible/... support as an intellectual, a man who knows something, then you deal with it that way. I don't want to deal with that kind of policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55547	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55548	Article 238, insult, demeaning of MPs, you and your party said that if you followed a little, you'd know that I don't have a party. I've never been to any party, and as strange as that may seem to you, a man can run for his mustache and learn his name in a parliament without a party and without a party. What is mentioned about the experimental vaccine, that the members of the scientific advice clearly said there is a time of several years as long as it takes, it takes for one vaccine to be quality-tested and applied. The haste of this situation around the world has led to speed things up, but that doesn't mean that this isn't yet the stage of the experiment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55549	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica, you get a warning. Following is the replica of the respected representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55550	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Boric, here we have witnessed that the past 15 months the Croatian state has strongly resisted this challenge of the crisis, reacted in a timely manner, secured and preserved jobs, and has taken many measures to combat this pandemic for the preservation of health and is still doing so. There are few of those mayors and mayors who have been invited to their cities to split. Recently in the media, we were able to read about that Mr. Mateo Frankovic invited his citizens and promoted the need for vaccination especially to help as successful as possible the tourist season. And then he had salves of insults and threats. So here's what it's all about. say what you're thinking. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55551	Thank you very much, colleague, I think no matter what I say here, don't speak from each and every one of us is what we'll do in the future. And no one should misread it in a sense, no one should order anything or call for responsibility or call for responsibility. Everyone's been given time to think. I think the state is already at the end of what should be its task to ensure everything that a man can get through this pandemic. And I think that's the time. It is up to us to decide now, as some other countries have already decided, or as Comrade Bauk has suggested, what we will do in the next 2 or 3 months. If we're gonna end everything, then take responsibility for each and every one of you. We'll see how much that might be worth or cost, etc., but to make an effort it is, 35 billion is some cost of how much this pandemic costs and this season that needs to give us wind in the back for even better next or to go back to some years that were, as it was in 2019 is obviously an input that needs to be an indicator of what we want. If that's not enough again I can overcome these other ones in some way message, but what about when we get back maybe And we'll figure out some numbers. [[Intruder: Time.]] Next year on today. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55552	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55553	My colleagues and colleagues, what has already been mentioned here today, and this is the inability to set the limit between professions, between science and politics. Perhaps most explicitly said by a member of the government's scientific advice, so not a person who is a particular political actor or who came from the street but who the government hired to assess has something to say about it, Gordan Lauc, saying that some decisions such as insisting on PCR tests are a political decision, not a professional and scientific one. So, the profession is highly politicised, and on the other hand, politics is legitimateized with a profession or pseudostruction. This all that happens in this discourse is impossible to observe from the perspective of science, about the scientific method I know something, rather than from the perspective of dogmatics. Like church dogmatics. I'm not a philosophy graduate, but there are colleagues who have graduated in theology who have listened to something about dogmatics, so maybe they could share something with us about this way of doing it. So something that's dogma is declared and you can't speak past the dogma. And those who conduct the priest dogma are in this case part of politics and mass media. It is also witnessed by Prime Minister Plenkovic's famous meeting with editors of the main media in Croatia at the beginning of this whole story. One example of how this dogmatic work was, for example, a statement by prominent virologist Luc Montagnier, who won the 2008 Nobel Prize for researching HIV virus that he said last spring that he believes for all he knows and knows about the full virology that the virus is artificially produced in the laboratory. It's something that went against a dogma that talked about bats and things like that, a man's been ridiculed, he's experienced stracism, you're balance, everything else, and we're suffocating that story, when he sees the devil a few months ago, it suddenly becomes legitimate to take that hypothesis. Why not if there are some arguments and oppose these arguments about transmission from bats or some other beasts. Here's an example of how that dogmatic opinion worked. So we heard HDZ representative Grbu Bujević at RTL say at the beginning that masks don't use anything and that they shouldn't be worn, so now very soon afterwards, here's the mask is certainly effective. Then what was partly the opposite of what was happening in practice, which is, for example, last fall when the largest growth of the outbreak at the beginning of the second wave was in Spain, Spain which introduced the obligation of the mask in the open even in July, a few months before, as well as in Brussels and Paris, the cities that introduced the obligation to wear the mask in the open and weeks before the growth that occurred and there. And now it's hard for an ordinary man to look at and trust in what the headquarters tells him, especially the headquarters of which, as I have already said, is not the health minister, but rather the Croatian specificist, the police minister, in this case, a person of expertise in the area of ONO and DSZ. We had at the beginning of a drawing of superheroes and headquarters, fearing a strict lockdown, they're going to save us, they're our superheroes, so we'll welcome today in the assembly that the minister doesn't answer any questions, could his double come under a mask or some model, a photograph of the minister who was sitting there, this turns into a monologue, and why did we stay here a little bit in the assembly? Well, because all of these monologues can be made public. We expected that some confrontation of arguments and answers from the minister, however, there are none. From my guess, the missing strategy of moral blackmail, which is “Think of others”, “Protect our grandparents,” and sees Grandpa and grandmother not being vaccinated alone, but now needs to be vaccinated by force or around the force of children in order to protect grandparents who do not want to, half of them over 80. Vaccinate. They create divisions in society, from this kind of moral blackmail, they move to direct blackmail where they now transfer to entrepreneurs that if they want to get incentives to force their workers to be vaccinated, which can lead to very conflict situations both in practice and in the field tomorrow. There's a D discussion coming up on this thing. Instead of talking, we're facing arguments, if we're supposed to fight in the assembly, we're silent, we're silent. We speak in one direction because the minister is not responding. It's a very serious situation and what we suspect, don't take this as a threat, this is just reading reality. If this kind of pressure and direct blackmail continues, I'm afraid the answer will come in the form of a mass protest that we don't have what else to do as a political option but rather support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55554	Time. No replicas, you're free. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55555	I'd like to call an officer. In 238, a colleague of Rasdic did not speak at all about the subject that was before us today, but he used the same terminology that he cares about in this same assembly again 7 or 9 times. And about the masks, I'd say I don't remember him offering his help, any scientists and his crew, and I remember that very well. And secondly, it turns out that my colleague Rasudic knew everything alive, as well as his colleagues from the Most then, so I'm surprised he didn't actually share it with the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55556	Okay. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This was most of the replica, so you get a warning. We've got another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Nino, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55557	Injury. 238, I am credited with an all-powerful and all-knowing which, unfortunately, I do not possess. I was just trying to explain the mistrust in people who were partly caused and contradictory information precisely because of this dogmatic approach, so that the Nobel laureate world virologist mocks that after a year it would come that his thesis might be acceptable or that a member of the headquarters says masks should not wear them, after 20 days we should all wear masks even though in Spain they grew despite having an obligation to wear a mask in the open air. So, that's what I wanted to back up, not play the know-it-all, so the contradictory information confused people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55558	This is the same warning because you had a replica. Next is an individual debate, Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55559	Thank you. It's football time. On 22.6.1986, at Astek Stadium in Mexico City, Argentina and England played, in the 51st minute of Maradona and Valdano performed a double dog, and then Maradona scored for the lead of England 1:0. Tunisian judge Ali Bin Naser pointed to the center, the English rebelled, but the decision hasn't changed. I hit the ball with my head, and a little with the help of God's hand he said to Maradona. And so the headquarters, a little by the constitution, and a little by the constitution and the law. The only thing this Tunisian judge didn't see, so he didn't judge, and those in the constitutional court saw, some gave a separate opinion, but most didn't judge. Maradona and Valdano would actually be ministers Beros and Bozinovic, and as far as these hands of God are concerned, so you gave a goal that is completely irregular, but it passed. That's how it was with headquarters. Then Argentina beat Belgium 2:0 and Germany 3:2. The finals in this case were parliamentary elections and the result that you achieved in relation to us in the number of MPs about 3 to 2. So, based on the irregular goal, you got it. History says it's at 4. Later, Germany remanded in final 1:0, so now we wait for the next election to make amends. That's what I'm saying in terms of it, so in the past elections as a party and HDZ, you get a large number of people's votes based on the crown situation even though it wasn't the most regular thing. What we resented headquarters clearly said, from the acquisition of vaccines, from those semi-political decisions that weren't very simple in our opinion. However, the situation is different now, and in fact, there are entirely other fundamental issues, and the fundamental question is no longer a matter of vaccines or the acquisition of vaccines rather than a question of vaccination. Now we have vaccines, and people don't want to be vaccinated, and all this stuff we're going through should end when people are being vaccinated. And now there's a question of methodology, whether we're going through a beating or a carrot telling people we're being vaccinated. I actually asked in the replica who we were protecting. Why, for example. Are we wearing masks in Parliament? Most of us are vaccinated, we're not protecting them, they're protected, those who haven't been vaccinated sit there, we're gonna sit here and no one's gonna be denied their rights. When they speak, they will come to the hall, they have that glass, when they're finished they'll come back there and there's no problem, no right is denied, but they'll actually know why we're sitting without masks, and why they're sitting there, so it should be, so I think it should be. So, the moment the vaccine becomes available to everyone and the issue of vaccination is no longer an issue of organisation, it is no longer a matter of availability but a question of individual's free will whether or not they will be vaccinated, protecting themselves and others, but primarily themselves, then more states should no longer restrict any rights that we had until 2020. since the third month. Why can't we go to the bar? We don't know. Why are we wearing masks? We don't know anymore. Who are we protecting? We know those who don't want to be vaccinated. So their choice. You need to draw a line at one point and say no more of that kind of protection, now you take the risk yourself like when you take the speed on the road you take the risk yourself, you can pass without a problem, but something bad can happen to you and you will be punished. Therefore, it is my appeal to the Government, to set a date after which we will lift all restrictions because we, this may not last forever, so it turns out that we depend on what someone will think of vaccination after four beers, to paraphrasise Marina Miletic now, so I don't think it's going to work because we're all going to lose patience. So think of others, and think of yourself and here you have and this slogan is good for you now, it's important now, you've had it in local elections. So now it's important to vaccinate, what you're going to do in two years when we're all going crazy from all the restrictions we're used to, and no more reason, there's really no more reason. So, you people are either inoculated or terrified, what can I tell you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55560	There is one replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55561	Comrade Bauk, yes, you are either inoculated or terrified, but we still need to look back at some other things in what you touched, which is why we who have been vaccinated continue to wear a mask, which we protect, how and why. I think just remember some examples of those who are telling us today that they need to be vaccinated and how they should be vaccinated and how great it is, and I don't know what they were sitting on the boxes of vaccines, they were in very intimate situations with not so many close people and not family members, when they defended others, when you couldn't say at the funeral that you were sorry that someone died, but some others obviously could. And we are now leading to that Croatia has always been a country of equal, equal and equal, because they are all equal, but some are more equal than others, some may, some may not, some must wear a mask if they are and Vaccinate like you and me, and some don't. [[Sander raider: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55562	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55563	Everything you said is probably due to a slightly less response to vaccination, but it's an disproportionate response to dissatisfaction. So, someone sitting on vaccine boxes, okay, but that's not why you don't vaccinate, now that everyone can be vaccinated. Therefore, they were called on by the people to vaccinate representatives of the government, but they were also invited by representatives of the opposition, we invited them. So here in Parliament, I was inoculating and inviting people to split, the President of the Republic invited them to split, and people don't split. So, I claim that this is no longer just a problem for the government now it becomes a problem for all of us because if these restrictions remain, if the economy continues to fall, and it will fall because of those who have not been vaccinated, then we too are in trouble, either as a future government, or as citizens of this country who will remain behind because there will be no more possibility of giving any support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55564	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55565	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Doctor Capak, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to look back on a vaccination campaign that we're not happy with or you're not happy with. Therefore, the campaign unfortunately proved to be missing, should and should invest additional human and financial resources in the promotion of vaccination. Well done on badges, not short reports of epidemiologists in the media, but that's not enough. Here I heard today that Minister Bozinovic is talking about vaccination, all honours to all those who have their own expertise beyond politics, but can no longer be assured by Minister Bozinovic of the benefits of vaccination. Unfortunately, members of headquarters no longer have weight, the headquarters is compromised and contaminated with double standards, wrong decisions, peas in the work despite warnings of professions and opposition. And that's why I said that both the Prime Minister and the members of the government and the headquarters should apologize publicly for all the mistakes that have been made, regardless of what is not politically opportunistic, but you would have greater citizens' trust, I am really well-intentioned, because at the very end of the line, it is our goal for all of us to end this pandemic as soon as possible, especially for us healthcare professionals. We've seen from the report that no action plan has been reached on the fissure of 55% of the adult population, so I wonder what the new plan is, when we're going to achieve any desired 70.75%? Who will be the bearers of the promotion of vaccinations and campaigns? These must be health care professionals, not only distinguished professors but also other doctors and healthcare professionals across all regions or counties, even ordinary citizens who have already been vaccinated, who will talk about their experiences, athletes, artists, etc., to get as close as possible to their citizens. Public television, local television, radio stations, other media, posters, digital extensions on social networks, webs, etc. should be repeated indefinitely. The secretary of state told me on the board today that the state has no money for a stronger press campaign. I'm again saying the term cost benefit analysis. Surely less money will be invested in the campaign than the cost of treatment, the economic consequences or the mortality of citizens, and television, in particular public, should be included free of charge, so money must not be an excuse when it comes to prevention. In the 11th month of 2020, a survey was carried out to ensure that 45% of citizens said they were not going to be vaccinated. Not all of these citizens are anti-vaxers, but people simply have a number of questions, some are undecided, have doubts, and such people should be educated. We have been warning for months from this pay phone and in the media that there is a need for stronger campaigns both on Covid-19 disease and on vaccination we talked about, I also talked about the stands, about educational videos and shows, round tables, lectures, telephone lines on which different experts would answer citizens' questions. That's what you're saying in the report that there's a free phone 0800 00 11. I honestly don't know who answers those questions, and it's said that 42% is answered, 42% is phone call 113. Why not anymore? For objectivity I have given myself the effort, I have visited the official site of Coronavirus.hr where now there is a section vaccination against Covid-19 disease most common questions and answers. There is indeed quite a lot of useful information there, but the question is how many citizens read these instructions at all, so there is insufficient promotion where useful information and answers to questions can be obtained. Furthermore, a few words that were needed in the report, and there is no, more detailed data on mortality and aviation in the counties because they are not all the same, so that just by comparing the counties and some certain changes in future steps would actually reduce these differences or reduce the mortality in the counties. I'll look back later on when I'm finally speaking on behalf of the club about the problems with the covid certificates and the problems with the vaccination of people who want to be vaccinated, and I still can't, I guess some solutions are in sight, but here's what I'm going to talk about later and give a final opinion on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55566	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Maric, I really agree with you when you say that there is a need to promote vaccination and there must always be money, that money must not be an excuse. Here we can see from this report that only during this reporting period, means January-May for sickness benefits for all those who were in isolation and self-insulation amounted to more than 83 million kuna, 55 million kuna for health care workers, an additional 41 million kuna for the treatment of covid patients etc.. Indeed, on all these items, we could have significant savings that our citizens are being vaccinated as much as possible, so here is the appeal not only to you but probably to Minister Maric that more funds are being allocated to promote vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55567	Thank you very much. I'm glad you agree with me and actually support what I'm saying all the time, means cost benefit analysis. On the one hand, you invest in prevention, education, promotion, media, etc., and on the other hand you cut costs. We've all seen the cost of both the equipment and the compensation for the sick and the new poor this covid supplements that weren't this, we can talk a lot about it, not talking about economic losses and not actually talking about all those people who died or those who actually have post-covid syndrome. So here's what you really accept is what I'm always telling you about cost-censorship analysis. Put it on paper, that's what this costs, that's how much this costs, and then draw the line and you'll see that prevention is number one, and then we'll just have these, cut the other costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55568	Next is Domagoj Hajdukovic's individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55569	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad, actually, that the replicas before this debate gave me one good cream. So we're talking about a pandemic that doesn't last two months, it doesn't last two weeks, it lasts almost two years, a year and a half. And now we're talking about Minister Maric's appeals to God not to increase the funds for a campaign to promote vaccines. But what campaign of colleagues and colleagues? Is the campaign carrying the badges that you colleagues from HDZ and public TV employees are wearing? I didn't get a chance to win that badge. It doesn't matter, you can give it to me now, but the badge is not the point of the campaign and the badge can't and can't be a campaign. They say that education or here you correct me, you're out of profession, one kuna invested in prevention, 4 kuna saved in recovery. This should now be on N's potential if we're talking about recovery or prevention. It is our job as responsible politicians to promote prevention and promote vaccination, yes. But it's not just ours, this is what the entire Croatian society should be mobilized about. Who can mobilize it? Well, whoever's running it. That's me, is that my colleague Bauk, is that my colleague Maric, I don't know, but the Prime Minister, yes, the President of the Parliament, yes, the Minister of Health, yes. Is that done? She's not a colleague and a colleague. So many questions about vaccination exist still, I think how can I tell you I can't answer those questions, I'm not a doctor by profession. I've been vaccinated here recently I've had a second dose of the vaccine and that Astressed one of the bad ones. I didn't vaccinate when the MPs were inoculating, and I was inoculating with the citizens, and then we can talk about organising the vaccine. I was first vaccinated when my county issued a public statement inviting everyone who wanted to vaccinate the Astress to report and I was reported and vaccinated. Is that your impression of an organized vaccination? I'm the one who was in '81. There were citizens who were not vaccinated at that time, who belong to risk groups, who are older, who are chronic patients. A lot has been done to undermine the authority of the institutions that should have hit this campaign and we should have helped them and we wanted it, but to help something and promote it must be understood by colleagues and colleagues. The guilt of our citizens is unfair, I expect, and that is what I read among the lines of what the minister said yesterday, Minister Coric is that we would expect employers to force their employees to split. Well, it's irresponsible of the government itself, not to say how unconstitutional it is and how much it is against human rights and everything democracy should exist for. It is our job to convince our citizens that they should be vaccinated for themselves and for others. For others as a responsibility to society and for themselves as a prevention of the most severe diseases. And I'm glad to see that my debate has prompted my colleague's coat of arms to share these badges with us specifically, but colleagues and colleagues are not campaigns. What will come out in the Evening or Morning List as a tape on the cover is not a campaign, vaccination, be responsible is not a campaign of colleagues and colleagues. The reasons, arguments and explanations are, and I at least heard it in the cacophony of false information, false news, misinformation, semi-information by the headquarters, questioning the very legitimacy of the headquarters as such because of the procedures of certain individuals, etc., so we have not contributed much to the responsibility of our citizens to be informed and to be vaccinated. And I invite them to split this way, and I'm afraid I don't have time to explain why, and I shouldn't, because that's what the waist needs to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55570	Replica Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55571	Thank you. When you were talking about this part of how employers plan to punish unvaccinated workers, please tell me is it in your opinion that the government is sending a signal to these employers who have no other way to force their workers to vaccinate if they do not want to, that this may be a valid reason for the extraordinary dismissal of these workers, or are we actually opening Pandora's box of a whole other spectrum of problems and reducing further labour rights?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55572	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55573	That's not what you said. That's not what I said. That might be how employers interpret it. But unfortunately, the authorities have left that possibility for employers to interpret it that way. Because here I am, I would say literally what Minister Coric said, that you employers need to convince your employers that they are inoculating, if you do not vaccinate, you need to give them yourself... but it is not the right approach. First it's not a human approach, it's not a constitutional approach, and then at the end of the day it's not even a real approach. What employers should do is encourage their employers to split because of the benefits they make towards themselves and others, to their family, etc., not because of the threat of failure. The threat of firing, unfortunately, is not an incentive, which is a threat, and I say that at the end of the day is what should not be encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55574	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55575	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I was saying in the replica, so today we're talking about the situation in Croatia in the report on measures so far, but here's the situation in Croatia today, so the total cleavage is somewhere around 37%, so we haven't achieved that target of 50% cleavage up to 1.7. The most vulnerable groups of those over 70 years of life that are most at risk of this disease have been split around 60% somewhere, and in Europe some countries are at 90 or even 100% of these most vulnerable groups. So, the government is the only one responsible for not achieving that fissure and that the government has not met that goal. And now what are they doing? So it's panic and how they react, so they react panicically. So, the government, the prime minister, the economy minister, the entire Civil Protection Staff actually launched a hectare in some way and first went after entrepreneurs, conditioning that they receive support for their employees if employees are vaccinated, so state budget support is granted, they say, from the state budget, and then it is appropriate that private individuals also assume responsibility and force their employees to be vaccinated will otherwise not get support. First, why is that bad? They again make a difference and encourage the public to make the difference between private sector employees and the public sector, so that division that we are forever listening to insist on this division is actually at the expense of all because if there is support from the state budget, does this mean that the salaries of all public sector employees who are also from the state budget will not receive their salaries if they have not been vaccinated? There have been some of these whether or not there will be some conditions for the public sector as well. So, the prime minister, ministers, the headquarters, are trying to put responsibility for their own inability to meet this goal and to transfer the nation to entrepreneurs, to all citizens, public sector workers, so they're preparing some kind of scapegoat in case the tourist season isn't good because it's interrupted or as it was last year. Here I can, I don't know if it's not the Minister clear so far and I can simply tell the members of the headquarters that no one in this country listens to you anymore, hears you, hears you when you say you need to be vaccinated. And why can't he hear you? Well, he doesn't hear you because you've been here a year now, it's already been said from this pay phone, because you've had so many contradictory decisions, so many politically decided decisions, that no one is following any more presses, no one listens to these measures, no one, everyone is lost, the caterers, the entrepreneurs, these, they're lost. What's today's decision, if it's worth 100, the 200 limit, if I can get on the terrace, I can't, if I can eat inside, outside, this, that. It's been so long since these confusing decisions have really been made that it's over, everyone has stopped following. You show up on TV, people close their eyes and ears and don't listen. So, in there, I think unfortunately the truth is... And I'm not sure, but here's the results show you keep calling for vaccination, no one listens to you anymore. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So you should work some other way. The government and headquarters should therefore finally understand that you are actually employees of all citizens, that you have to work in the interests of all citizens, not to threaten, not to discriminate, not to take responsibility for your mistakes on someone else but to try to find some other way, so if this is not the way to go, let's see how to improve that communication, how to include both associations and associations of entrepreneurs, organisations, NGOs that actually want and help ultimately how to involve them in general and how to increase fragmentation. So, in this case go on some kind of coercion, to some kind of discrimination actually wake up in people, you're just going to produce a contrast, you're going to encourage people to, what they would say in Split, "I'm not going to be vaccinated now because you're doing it that way". So think about another and better way of communicating, turn it on, someone mentioned athletes, actors, singers, in there, in this action, here I went too far, right, I'll stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55576	We have a replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55577	Hey, buddy, here's the thing. I just put on a badge, and I guess now we've made this whole campaign complete. Is this really a campaign that I'm going to wear a badge or you or your colleagues and colleagues from HDZ? No, it's too little, no, it's completely missed, and like you said at the end of the day, who else does? We have experts, you want our people with an international pedigree, you want our homework. We've got to get rid of the influenzars if you want. Why aren't they involved? I'm not talking about the goal of making money at the end of the day. I'm sure, and it's already been done by many pro bono to really help our society. So the only thing we need to do is to organize this campaign, direct it with arguments, to people who can connect to each other, which you say not to people who will seem repulsive to them, but to those who will actually give the result, which is the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55578	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55579	Well, here, I agree with you. I think even that badge and it's some kind of campaign, but it can't be the only one. As I said, therefore, it is necessary to change the way of communication, to include in this communication whether anyone who can help in this direction is able to work on education, to answer all the questions that are normal for people to have questions, why, as far as the vaccine is worth, when, if we are allowed to have masks vaccinated, not vaccinated, so all these questions are given clear and unequivocal answers, to educate the population, but I say and to include in the wider communication all those who can help make the vaccination bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55580	Next replica, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55581	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we agree that the repression is not a good measure, so say communicologists and other experts. Here's what I saw today in the First Network, I think where it's clearly said, it's clear, and the epidemiologists have agreed, psychiatrists etc. that the campaign isn't good and that we need to step up the campaign. We do not want discrimination and we also do not want exclusive transfer of responsibility to entrepreneurs and workers. As far as the health system is concerned, which is still a one-packed system, we have data that some over 80% of healthcare professionals have been vaccinated, and here I found information that in social activities 40% of the employees have been vaccinated, so it could be more, 70% of them are interested in tourism, but they're all still split. Now I'm wondering, what do you think about maybe in some way being stimulated or actually motivated by employees in such dams that there may be some kind of internal regulations that someone who works in the kitchen, waiter, etc. That you should still be vaccinated, here's your opinion. [[Sander raider: time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55582	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55583	So that's the thin line on which we always walk, between whether we're going to put the vaccination that is mandatory for everyone or for some branch or for some employees, those who are in direct contact, those who are in contact with vulnerable groups mean in I don't know the employees of the homes for the elderly they must be vaccinated, etc. Well, then again I say it's all on if we're going to civil protection headquarters, if it's the ultimate body to make all those rules and prescribe, but also explain to people why. When people understand why something is done and when these explanations are logical and when you have measures that do not challenge each other, they will all be easier to accept any rule that is made, when they understand why.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55584	The next replica of Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55585	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of mine we come from Split-Dalmatia County, I recently traveled by ferry from Split to Brac with tourists from Belgium who were supposed to spend their vacation in Spain in Catalonia, but because Belgium invited them to decide there that the pandemic's pandemic had decided the last moment of vacation in Brac, Croatia, because it was all these government measures that it had taken that Croatia was a safe country for tourists. Since there was a badge here, no one thinks that this badge that we're wearing is a drip, we think it's kind of the start of the campaign, and I would definitely love this badge if you put it on, so I'm wondering what you're going to do about this same promotion to be vaccinated so it doesn't happen to be the same as last year. that our tourism ends in the eighth month? [[Sander raider: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55586	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55587	Here you are, saying it's the start of the campaign. I'm sorry it's just the beginning of the campaign. So we should have started the campaign a long time ago, today we were supposed to have results and a 50% target, but obviously we don't have one. And all of us will participate as much as we can and by example show and influence vaccination. It is known that I, too, consider vaccination truly from one of the top achievements of science, not only for covid, but also for myself, I have been vaccinated and proved to be an example. But the point of this is that the government must not transfer responsibility to someone else because it has not met the goals it has set for itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55588	Next replica Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55589	I think that, therefore, of the two arms that the government should do, or the headquarters, are two equal or even a little more. First, to show those who were vaccinated that their life would look like 2020, and secondly to those who had not vaccinated that their life would not yet look like 2020. So those who are not in danger, who are not endangering others, who have also been vaccinated should no longer have restrictions, that is my position. For example. if tourists are vaccinated, why does it matter where the hotspot is? So if tourists are vaccinated we go anywhere we want, that's probably the point of vaccination. If it turns out it's not protection, then we've all lost as if we hadn't been vaccinated. So, I'd like answers to those questions, which is more restrictive than some date if they didn't think that I'm asking to end it today than in 1.9. [[Sander raider: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55590	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55591	So here I would like to answer these questions from the relevant institutions, if I did not give you answers to these questions, I determine when what measures will be applied or God forbid measures, but that responsible institutions give unequivocal measures, logical and explain why. Here's what we're still waiting for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55592	The last replica, respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55593	My colleagues, you were really talking about cacaphony, there was cacaphony here, and those who were being vaccinated and who would like to advance understanding of this co-responsibility. What concerns you, you've suggested of a kind of inclusion so-called. celebrities, if celebrities do this, you can have a contrast because then it's paid, so it's not authentic. What we need to advocate is to advocate that some common so-called citizen says I'm being vaccinated and I can travel tomorrow or I'm being vaccinated and I can go to a concert. So, the messages must not be fake because as we've spent our faces on headquarters, we're going to spend this too. In addition to tourism, I think I'd like to ask you and answer, we can't now not see the synergy between tourism. The other day, people were commenting. will not be vaccinated if tourism earns those that HDZ County [[Sander raider: time.]] Legalized to give me a profit in legalising illegal construction [[Sander raider: time.]] I want to tell you we need to see that synergy. [[Sander raider: time.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55594	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55595	Well, I'll just say that I'm a college student. Of course, some communication expert should come up with a whole campaign and these suggestions that will best show our people who are the benefits of vaccinations, how their lives will change, or whether they will return to what is normal to call it, so it is really a question for much better communication experts than I am, but certainly what has been done so far is obviously not good. We don't have enough cleavage, we're far from that 80, 90% split when our life could be back to normal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55596	Following the final debate, is the first club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns, respected representative Marijan Pavliček. He's gone. Following is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55597	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here's a few final thoughts and messages. I have already announced that I will talk about specific vaccination problems for those who would like to be vaccinated, and still cannot be vaccinated, these are specifically people who are not HZZO insurance and the report says that people with European health insurance cannot currently be vaccinated in the Republic of Croatia, but only HZZO insurance companies. So, people who specifically see examples that are our citizens, but who live outside have checked out of HZZO come to Croatia, they have been staying there for months, they want to receive a second dose, but the answer is that they cannot be vaccinated even if they want to pay. So hopefully, that's what we discussed today on the board that some kind of solution will be found as soon as possible so that these people don't stay split. And on the other hand, we have extra vaccines, and I think I read some 1.3 million doses today, and it's still untapped, and it's a matter of timeout, so here's the real hope that you'll get our solution as soon as possible. Then doubtful about the duration of the covid certificate, many health care professionals particularly received the first dose at 12 months, the second one at 1 month, and now that the covid certificate lasts 210 days means seven months so at the end of August there will be an expiry of that covid certificate. Now, will this duration be extended after those 210 days? Will a third dose of the vaccine be required? So there should be clear instructions, the answer to the committee was to follow the opinion of scientists, professions, to monitor situations in other EU countries, we only call for these decisions to be made as soon as possible and to communicate clearly with the public because I say 8 months already there. Furthermore, the problem of not getting covid confirmations for people who have been over covid-19 and have been vaccinated with only one dose because such instructions have been or those who have been vaccinated outside Croatia, for example in Serbia, so I am talking about this reporting period, but here we have checked and a few days ago we still can't get a covid certificate for these people, so here we are hoping that this problem will be resolved as soon as possible so there will be no further uncertainty about the issue of covid certificates. A few other things about the report, I was saying there's not enough data on mortality, and that's what we need to talk about. Unfortunately, the 8th in Europe, 15th in the world, 2,000 people per million people are not mentioned at all, and should be part of the report. We also feel that there is insufficient listening to the profession, and we have talked a lot about it, as well as scientific advice. In this reporting period as far as I have information, they only met once, there are no records, in particular no publicly available records and all this is missing in the report. Then I asked the committee myself what happened to remdesivir, so in that first tour 41 million kunas were spent in the second too, the first round was all spent, but in the second one some unused drugs remained, so I hope that there will be no expiry of the duration, noting that the World Health Organization has not shown its effectiveness clearly for remdesivir, but apparently our commission has come to the conclusion that remdesivir is still in use. And then I got a little confused with the cost of gloves, on nine million gloves, nine million kuna, that seems like a lot to me, but I guess that's the kind of information. Somehow, I sum up, so we're all unhappy with the current vaccination campaign together, we hope you'll hear everything you heard today, we hope that both the headquarters and the government and the ministry will accept our suggestions, but also acknowledge their previous mistakes publicly, just to motivate people and to gain some trust in the institutions. I call, of course, all citizens on behalf of the club and on their behalf to get as much vaccination as possible, to report for vaccination as possible. Also the message and the minister, listen to all the problems with which the profession is handled, we've talked a lot about it, it's been enough with the right of disfavor both from the hospital system and from primary health care and from the emergency service, so here we've been discussing it for a long time, but I guess it'll finally be of some use to finally improve the number of splits and end the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55598	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's representative, Sandra Bencic, on behalf of the Green-left bloc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55599	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Minister. So, the Green-Left bloc club, of course, has already noted its support for vaccination and we believe that up to 70 and more percentage vaccinations should be made exclusively positive, affirmative and above all informative campaigns. So between what we heard today and, for example, from the Most Club from some of their representatives where the instructions and the completely wrong things about the vaccine are true, we could say fake news but who cares more, so that the government on the other hand, or HDZ, as a vaccination strategy, takes certain forms of coercion, as announced in terms of covid support that only those who are vaccinated or probably workers who are vaccinated, we believe that there exists between these two extremes is a broad range of choices and how to get through the really open information with citizens to that goal of high vacancy. So, we are opposed to any form of coercion because we believe, unlike MOST, we believe science, but unlike you from HDZ, we believe in education, education, information, address doubts that are legitimate, so it's legitimate that people ask themselves questions, it's legitimate to suspect. But what we're expected to do is not immediately label these doubts and put some boxes on them, but to answer them, to answer rational arguments. So I argue that the rate of fissure in Croatia could have been better because, if it could have been better in Austria, Denmark, in many European countries, then it is definitely not, we cannot take responsibility for the population but we must say that responsibility is both for the government and for the headquarters, perhaps for all of us, perhaps here on all of us, given the way we act and what we say and what we say. So that the choice of citizens we stand for, so we don't advocate any coercion, let it be a choice, but let it be informed. To be informed, we have to refrain from the flatulent and populist assessments we've heard here today, that the vaccine is experimental, it's not experimental, it's not safe, we've heard it's not safe. Dear citizens, in Croatia, zero people died from the effects of the vaccine, and 8.220 died and some of the people died from the covids. If any other evidence is required that the vaccine is not harmful and that it is safe, and that the covid is harmful and insecure and leads many to death, so what more than these numbers we need, 8,224 more people, so they died of covid than anyone had a more serious result than vaccination. Let's be reasonable. So, the appeal we heard here today from MOST that free choice was deprived of responsibility to facts, that it was deprived of responsibility to scientific knowledge, to common sense and ultimately to the community. That's the attitude we heard today that relativizes the truth because the truth can then be anything, the truth can be anything. But he also relativizes the existence of society. We're not a group of atomized individuals who happened to be in some kind of territory, we're a community and we're a society. So, when I decided whether or not I was going to vaccinate because today was a question of what we're inoculating, in 40 years, we're not a risk group, when I decided whether or not I was going to vaccinate, not because of the fear of my own covid, because I'm not really a risk group, but because I wanted to contribute to that percentage to over 70% of the cleavage so that those of us who really aren't laughing and cannot be vaccinated for health reasons could remain unvaccinated and protected. Because we're a society, because I don't live in an air space, because I believe my personal decision doesn't have an effect on me alone, but it has on everyone else and on the whole society. And if we're going to act this way and if we're going to communicate it to the citizens, we're going to get that percentage, but we can't come from the position of authority and order but from the position of understanding, compassion and really giving real information. Here's the thing, if we do it, I really think we're gonna make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55600	Finally, on behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Willy Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry there aren't any who haven't welcomed answers to their questions. I'm here to talk, but they have the full right to set up the same, and I've been taught some of my previous experiences to make sure that the Ministry of Health responds quickly. However, I would like to tell you very briefly, and at the same time answer my colleagues Bauku this about what we all seek, which is to take off masks and return to some old normal. So even though we're in the green there's still a virus around us, we still can't relax. Reading now what my ministry is sending me, I read an article in which World Health is also sending a message and stressing that relaxation is too early and that is indeed so. This virus is dangerous, it's still around us and until we reach that desired range of cleavage there's no relaxation. That's what I wanted to tell you. I thank you all for your constructive discussion, it was very good. What I also ultimately want to take the opportunity to once again invite all of our citizens to split not because of the people in the headquarters who I hear are shutting down televisions, not because of politicians, but because of themselves, because of their loved ones, because of the health of the Croatian nation. Vaccination is the fastest and simplest way to health. That's it. Now let's answer these lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55602	We've got a couple of replicas, first Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55603	Yeah, well, basically from this question, I'm exempting the officers who are present. Why are we really wearing masks now in the assembly, who are we protecting? We're all vaccinated I think, well, this is why we're all vaccinated, people are watching us, they know we're vaccinated because we've been vaccinated on TV and we're still holding masks and we're sitting around like this. Well, it would be more worth changing if we showed them things were going to go back to normal. So, that, that's mine, my first question. And secondly, taught by the German example that I'm talking about right now, I've said all of this, so at one point we won't be able to wait any longer for this power to be granted to us and to decide the vaccine so that we can all live normally and I have less and less patience for it, Mr. Minister, and I have no problem saying it. You can still have a handheld, I don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55604	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, it is quite clear to me that this headquarters is producing these decisions and adapting the situation to a real one, so you probably missed that a new decision has been made, it seems to me last week whether on Friday and precisely what you just said, and that is if we are in an environment where we are all vaccinated we don't have to wear masks. At the last press, Vice President Bozinovic announced it, and that is to say, but let's show the others what the vaccination is accomplishing, that is, there is but, in order for me to stay with Arsen, so he doesn't have to stay with him but. But this is how we're going to act when we achieve that necessary fissure until then. We can under these circumstances, here's Vice President Bozinovic said that the next press is that if everyone in the NSB is vaccinated, including, of course, technical staff, we don't have to have masks, so we're going in that direction. Well done, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55605	Next replica Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55606	Here I was going to tell the respected ministers that all the things you heard today that you saw as a well-intentioned criticism, when I told you about the pay phone that no one can hear you, not for reasons I don't know how to humiliate you, I'm angry at you, I'm angry at you, I'm really angry at you from the citizens, maybe you're not moving enough among them, they just can't really hear you, they can't hear you, they can't hear the headquarters, they can't hear the members of the headquarters, when you show up on the screen, they just walk out on each other, they can't hear your messages, they obviously can't hear you. So something in that communication needs to be changed. Here's a colleague of Sandra's, she was excellent at saying what the benefits of vaccination are, it's just not clear to people, obviously it's not clear to them because if they were clear, they'd have a higher cleavage than 37%. Therefore, communication needs to be changed in some way, other people should be introduced into communication, among citizens to find communication experts who will know how to communicate these messages to people. Thank you. [[Sander raider: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55607	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55608	Dear Madam Parliamentarians, I will not object or disprove what you have said. I'm the one who always says you need to talk and absolutely listen to you and I'm not mad at you. However, on the other hand, I find it very strange because you still have people to imagine who happinesss us both at work and in the city and while traveling and looking for information and we have no impression, so we have commented on neither colleague Capak nor I that we are so hated and that our information based on professional sources enters all through one ear and exits through another. I still don't think that's the case. Of course, I'm not defending you from having your opinion on all this together, but you can't be subjective enough to generalize it. I truly believe that my messages are all aimed at the well-being of the Croatian people, of course aimed at the stability of the health system that they are so bad that someone no longer wants to hear them. But maybe you're right, I don't want to paralyze it now. What I will continue to do consciously and consciously with my work from the beginning of the crisis, promote vaccination, promote scientific and professional attitudes and work on the welfare of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55609	The last replica of Maj Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55610	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. There's always room for improvement, you're always saying it yourself, I'm just saying what you've always said, and the truth is, it's not really true that people don't hear you. I haven't been in headquarters in a long time, but I hear what people say about what decisions you've made, what decisions you've made. What's the problem is that every decision is done in the way that happens and is already being attacked at the beginning, and that's what makes trouble that the forest in all that information, then people don't actually get the right information about something. So, I think there's room for improvement, and there's some good suggestions, but I don't think the word spoken by headquarters doesn't reach our people, and that's proof, which is that vaccination is actually the primary dose of the day-to-day, but it does increase compared to the last three weeks, so some things do come to people after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55611	Dear Madam Parliamentarian, I thank you for those words. Of course, there are always places to improve, but I am also glad to hear that there are still those who believe that we are doing everything for the benefit of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-07-0.u55612	Thank you, Minister. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155. Here, good night, everybody. The session was interrupted at 8:39 p.m.
