ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u57718	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS]] Comrade Petrov, were you looking for something? I can't determine exactly what.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u57719	No, I just called the moment you set out the completion of the agenda and you start voting for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u57720	Okay. So seven is new points. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But come on, let's take it in a row. Let us pass and then we'll move on afterwards. So 7 is new points. The proposal for a supplement was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a single law is to be adopted in an emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 1, 2 and 3 of the proposed supplement? If not, I believe that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure. As Article 225(4) of the written objections to the remaining points of the draft agenda have not been completed, I note that all the proposed points have been included in the agenda of the 8th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u57767	Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u57768	My colleagues and colleagues, as we know, are a busy week for us, and that week is only the beginning of positive changes because everything that happened this week will have far-reaching political consequences. Yes, the first decision we all look at is certainly HDZ's punishment for corruption that must not be forgotten. So we could hear the Prime Minister being appalled by that punishment, found that he was for all the other members of the NBA opposition. No, the NBA Prime Minister is getting the best and most capable athletes, you can't buy a place in the NBA. Prime Minister Plenkovic, you may be told by means of a more metaphorical sports dictionary that you are sitting on the bench of a third-rate club because your dad is good with a coach. So much panic followed this ruling by the ruling majority that, as a flaw from the sky, they suddenly began to share money to Croatian citizens all to forget that they had previously stolen it, so we could hear that the minimum wage would grow, we could hear that the price of fuel would be fixed, but there should be a clear message, you have nothing to fix the price of fuel, you will cut excise duties, take from your mouth, and not disturb the market and the entrepreneurial mouth, and keep yourself intact. In order to prevent the inflation that we are all witnessing now and which most burdens Croatian citizens with rising fuel prices that will spill to the rise of all other prices and pockets of our citizens, including those who do not drive, you must cut excise duties rather than pretend that you are doing something temporary by fixing prices that will probably have more damages for us in the long term than benefits. All these messages that came from the ruling majority just show serious panic in their ranks and panic is justified because yesterday important things happened in HS, it happened that now it was clear that there were oppositions, that the opposition in some things is, regardless of all the differences that share us, united in the fact that there is still some limit that we do not allow in the legal order to cross over in this country. He's got opposition and the opposition won today, but it's only the beginning of the battle because the real question is who's to blame for the fact that it's been blocked by this pay phone? The culprit for this legal chaos is the solely ruling majority. If the Constitutional Committee had called in time and declared what he did today, there would be no need to block this stage at all. Unfortunately, blocking, such a physical blocking is the only language that the ruling majority knows because only after it has been followed, regardless of all the previous warnings that we have sent about that the same session should not have been held so that the choice for the director of HRT is illegal, and it is otherwise against the law due to the very execution of the tender and because of the candidate who has been proposed and who, in conflict of interest, did not bear fruit. It yielded only a united metaphorical and performance action of the opposition. This shows that there is still hope, that the government is burning ground under its feet and that, despite all the messages that we could hear from the ruling majority, despite the total legal chaos, ignoring all the regulations and trying to impose the director of HRT despite all our differences, there are things that are above them and above our partial political interests and that unite us. In this sense, the opposition has won an important victory today, the HDZ is finally and justifiably shaken to its feet, this victory is just the beginning of a brighter Croatian political future in which the HDZ, because it deserves to be left behind in the castle of history.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u57914	Please allow it to take a stand, the first distinguished representative of Ljubica Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u57915	Here's my esteemed colleague and colleague, and I'll try to speak louder, so today is October 15th, International White Stick Day. The Croatian Association of Blinds this year marks the International White Stick Day with a message "if we can't see we're not invisible". This message wants to warn society as a whole of the need for inclusion, so this message will repeat it again "if we do not see we are not invisible" Croatian association of the blind wants to warn society as a whole about the need for the involvement of blind people in society. In urban environments it is visible in a way that has an increasing number of tactile strips, a path of guidance which unfortunately in small environments we cannot see. On this occasion, I would also like to appeal to our fellow parliamentary representatives who are mayors or mayors of cities and municipalities to consider in their environments the possibility of adapting the outside and internal space to blind and undersighted persons. So if we stick to the convention, and we keep stressing that, and I'm sure that's what a lot of people do, so Article 9. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is currently talking about accessibility. This is one way to adapt space to blind people, so paths are one of the adjustments, which means a lot to blind people. Everyone wants to know where the blind person goes as well, and we'll give her a guide path. So once again, I want to congratulate all of our fellow citizens on people who do not see or are undersighted today's International White Stick Day. Let us today point to the need to adapt the space of external and internal, so to the need for accessibility and to make it easier for our fellow citizens to move. For those who are in a wheelchair on this day, especially the blind and the undersighted. Once again, let this International White Stick Day be a happy way for you to see as many guideways as possible throughout the Republic of Croatia as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58102	Following is the next statement on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, respected Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58103	In an attempt to escape government President Andrej Plenkovic's responsibility yesterday, instead of acknowledging the role of the entire political party headed by a systematic multi-annual mugging of the Republic of Croatia, he collapsed on the opposition by calling some of the opposition political groups to show some totalitarian manners. Well, I can't imagine more totalitarian manners than those shown not only by Andrej Plenkovic himself but by HDZ, his government, his party colleague chairman and the complete HDZ in the work of the Croatian Parliament. When Andrej Plenkovic says he is unacceptable to make HDZ sticky labels, it should be said that HDZ is no longer a label in power but a factual state stemming from a powerful verdict. When Andrej Plenkovic says that it is not acceptable for him to be guilty or to bear a burden of guilt or responsibility for something others have committed, it should be said that he is heavily responsible for political responsibility and that he would not be in the position he is now in if not for the HDZ alone but also for Eve Sanader. And speaking of what is or is not acceptable should not be acceptable for Croatian citizens to lead their country, to be managed by such a political party, a corrupt party that is now in power. It would be even less acceptable for such a political party to shape our fate and our future for the next years and decades. One of the areas that the corrupt government has dared to create is the Anti-Corruption Strategy that we were supposed to discuss this week. Looking back at how successful all previous anti-corruption strategies have been, we can say that they have suffered their heavy defeat. If we compare the verdict that was passed against HDZ and Ivo Sanader, we can say that it is a shame that the Croatian state had to wait so long. But she still welcomed her. Compared to some other difficult corruption cases, perhaps the most difficult that Croatia has at all had in Croatia, such as the Borg affair and, for example, the way in which the Law on Agrokor was voted here in the Croatian Parliament, the competent authorities of what is being prosecuted, but also other bodies that should have dealt with, for example, the segment of conflict of interest did not come at all to debate, to determine the facts of the situation and to express criminal, criminal or moral responsibility. And that's the totalitarian Croatia we're in right now. The reason why the law enforcement authorities did not engage in the opening of an investigation into the Borg affair is the way in which political life takes place, not in the way prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but essentially comes down to the political power and influence of a person who is at the head of the HDZ. So it was at the time of Eve Sanders, and so it's still day today and now. When the Agrokor Act was passed, it was literally overnight within 24 hours of the bill being drafted by a small group of stakeholders in the parliamentary procedure. There is no parliamentary representative who could be referred to the contents of his provisions and say whether they are such that they really need to be voted. They voted because she wanted political will so badly. And that's where her corruptive power is. So it was corruption, but corruption that the authorities had no choice. This force, the totalitarian force by which HDZ is run and the government is also seen in this seemingly banal example of the election procedure for the new head of HRT. So, we needed to literally stop last night by physical force from voting on that point today, in order to re-force HDZ with this item of the agenda to try to impose already next week. Not in those days when it is common for the Croatian Parliament to discuss and ambush, but by introducing an additional parliamentary working day. I call on parliamentary deputies to continue to resist such force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58207	Following is the position of the HSS and RF Representatives Club, respected Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58208	Here in this assembly is heard about many things, often from various sources and various political commitments, but there are few things about workers and their salaries that are heard here. Each year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is due by 31 October at the latest to determine the amount of minimum salary for the following year. The minimum wage shall always be determined in an amount not sufficient to cover the basic needs of life. 2021 C.E. A minimum salary of 4,250 kuna and 3,400 kuna was established net, which was an increase of 187,47 kuna compared to 2020. The Constitution states in Article 56 that every employee has the right to earn money that can provide themselves and families with a free and decent life, but I ask you who we can ensure a safe and worthy life with such a minimum wage. Many refer to Aladrovic's statement that this phenomenal place for life is a much more dramatic statement made the other day means on GSV after which the government has spoken to the unions about the inflation situation and then Aladrovic alone means something that will be a reaction to it, says an increase in the minimum wage that is scaling up and it would be really funny if it wasn't tragic because it's about October when the government has to determine the minimum wage and that legal minimum wage must be greater than the one that was in the previous year. But what to say about these statements if we take into account the minister's statement, the prime minister who said that our average salary in 2 years will be EUR 1000, which is the amount of minimum wage in Slovenia, and that amount even if we introduced EUR 1000, would not be sufficient for the basic living needs for the calculation of the New Union minimum wage should be around 10,400 kuna. Of course we can't be unreal if we don't understand that it's a high amount, but some calculation that would tell us how much the minimum wage of minimum wages that would be realistic would be to cover those basic living costs would be very useful, but that state has given up on the calculation that would be very useful to us, and therefore the Workers' Front also referred the government to the conclusion that it is bound to calculate that amount. Here we are facing the largest inflation since 2013 3.1% on the annual level that will reflect the working majority's lives, those who live off their work. So it's either pensioners, those who lived off their work or those who now live on their work, workers, or those who want to live on their work, unemployed. It was the conclusion of the GSV that only the minimum wage would be raised, and then it was said that as far as inflation is concerned, nothing will fix anything but what will be monitored by the inflation. After the HDZ ruling as the first and convicted party as a criminal organisation, Plenkovic decided to limit the amount of oil derivatives, but that is certainly not enough. So not only will there be a problem and there is a problem but now in transport, so people can't buy gas, but we don't actually have any policies that would improve and put emphasis on public transport, and that means that public transport should be free especially in this situation and be subsidized. We don't have any reaction means that the standard of the majority will be broken and the election additions to the pensioners is actually something that was eaten by inflation, and so it will be with a minimum wage I predict is, no matter how much the government will determine it, it will certainly not be enough to live, but we wait 30.1. when we find out that phenomenal amount of minimum wage in a phenomenal place of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58209	Here, we've exhausted the views. We continue as already stated on Tuesday 19 October at 9:30 p.m. Have a nice weekend, everybody. Session adjourned at 13.25 p.m. Following is the SDP's Club of Representatives position, respected Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58281	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We have before us a public consultation of the reform of the social care system consisting of a package of 7 laws of which are two key social care laws and the Household Law, and of 5 professional laws governing professions in the field of social care, and also plans to adopt 3 national strategies, the National Plan against Poverty and Social Exclusion, the National Plan for the Development of Social Services and the National Plan for Equalisation of Equality for Persons with Disabilities. At the very beginning, there's been a manipulation of facts. The action plan for improving the social care system has not been adopted by a high-level consensus, as Minister Aladrovic declares because the reform presented has neither supported the Chamber of Social Workers nor the Scientific Community of the Faculty of Social Labour in Zagreb, which are key to implementing this reform. It is therefore absolutely unacceptable and contrary to all the experience and practices of long-term work centres so far, that the social care system is organised in a model such as the Pension Insurance Office or the Employment Office. Unfortunately, it is the first only result of the lack of knowledge of the system and the merger of 3 large resistors. While decentralisation of the system is encouraged at all levels, the social care system is translated into a centralized system. The Croatian Institute for Social Work, the regional services, is being introduced, and this was all imagined in part of the reform in 2011, as well as the delusions that were once imagined, and after applying only a few months have been abolished then. Furthermore, according to the national development of the strategy adopted by the Republic of Croatia by 2030. The stand will literally strengthen the role of the social care centre as key actors in social policy and improve their role in social planning for the development and availability of the necessary social services. And special attention will be given to reducing public authority. But what do we have now? We have an obvious reform that is contrary to the national strategy or at least does not follow it because there is no mention in the national strategy nor of the institutions but exclusively strengthening the social care centre. From the reduction of public authority, the only way you state in the draft Social Care Act is to compensate for employment that ceases to exist, which is the right actually marginal in the burden of professional workers. Exports at a total level of 1,838 users versus the number of users of personal disability or care allowances whose total number is 123 thousand kuna, 123.373 users. Also, we have a history of family centres as an independent institution long ago, so institutions attached to social care centres. There is now a redistribution of family centers from the centres after seven years of work by these same family centres within the welfare system or as branches of the social care center. Very few people have been employed in current branches of family centers. It consists of the head of a branch, psychologist, lawyer or social worker, which means several people whose activity is aimed at preventive work in the local community. And now such small branches become institutions under the draft Social Care Act and should have an employee director, appointed to the council and administrative worker, accounting worker, for all these jobs so far have been carried out by accounting workers of the Social Care Centre. Unnecessary spending of budgetary resources. If the family centre has worked within the system so far, it will remain part of the system only as a separate institution with higher costs because the minister says the work of the family centre is destigated and close to the local community. And that the absurd would be greater within the family centers is the introduction of psychosocial treatment to prevent violent behavior aimed at stopping violence between partners or in the family. So it can't be talked about preventing violent behavior if it's intended to stop violent behavior. Obviously, the function of the family centre remains unclear, nor is the direction of development clear You may have asked those ministers, if you had asked the representatives of the family centers, and not many 21, you might have clear guidelines. [[Intruder: Time.]] the development of these institutions. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58336	Following is the presentation of the position of the Club of HNS, HSU and the independent representative, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58337	What we eat becomes that. There's food all around us but we don't always know it. Unfortunately, we are alienated from nature. Food is a symbol of love when words are not enough. Food as a resource that depends on clean and healthy nature should be our long-term commitment and wealth. The people's story is that your grandson would be rich in the crew of his nut, after 10 years he's got plenty of fruit, and in 60 years when his granddaughter needs him most, he's got a tree for beautiful furniture. Today, older than younger ones learn new technologies, but younger ones can get a lot of knowledge about food production and knowledge of nature. In addition to that, for hobby, fungi, grassland, healing plants, folk medicine, so all that belongs and contributes to a healthy diet. The World Food Day has been declared by the World Health Organization and is marked every year on October 16th because of the fact that food is a prerequisite for human survival and prosperity and a fundamental human need. The goal of this day is to strengthen public awareness of the problem of food shortages in the world and to strengthen the solidarity of countries in the fight against hunger, malnutrition and poverty. Although in developed countries, food is plentiful and too much is spent in poor countries, the government is starving. In the world, 870 million people are starving, more than 2 billion people do not have regular access to health care properly adequate and quantitatively sufficient food. About 14% of food produced for consumption worldwide is lost every year before it even reaches the market, and how much is to be dumped due to the expiry date. The biggest challenge of today's generations is to improve food quality in the food chain. Trends of food quality caused by the growing desire for economic gain should be stopped through increased food producer control, distribution and food sales as well as food surveillance and testing in laboratories. The World Food Day calls for global solidarity in order to help all populations, especially the most threatened, and seems more and more to make food systems more resilient and powerful so that they can withstand increasing instability and climate change and allow affordable and sustainable healthy nutrition for all. Bad nutrition, the sedentary lifestyle has led to a rapid rate of obesity not only in developed countries but also in low-income countries where hunger and obesity often co-exist, go hand in hand. No region in this area is an exception. It's time for radical thinking about production, distribution and food consumption. Sustainable forms of agriculture, forestry and fisheries can provide healthy and quality food for all and provide sufficient income and promote rural development and environmental protection. But the current state of soil, water, ocean and forest is alarming. And finally some message for all of us. Prepare food with attention and love. Imagine and always think about and imagine the deviation of human thinking that in everything we are looking for the greatest quality for our money, cars, home appliances, clothes, shoes, and the least of our worries are that we put into the organism. The advice I would give from this place is to buy seasonal fruits and vegetables, read what is written on the declaration, buy locally whenever you can, grow at home, in food naturally fresh and seasonally is the healthiest and not the most expensive, but it needs knowledge, effort and love to prepare good food. And finally, finally, domestic production and domestic food have no alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58353	Following is the statement on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u58354	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, recently visiting a show, Minister Aladrovic said Croatia is a phenomenal, phenomenal place to live. Maybe if you're a member of the HDZ, there are other rules that apply to you. Also, as he talked from his parallel universe about the beauty of life in our beautiful country, social policies in Croatia also touched. The importance of social policy in Croatia is best said that the Croatian government led by the HDZ abolished the Ministry of Social Policy and attached it to a mega ministry with an excuse for a name lasting at least a minute. Perhaps this is also aimed to highlight the versatility of Minister Aladrovic whose name we can add to Hans Christian Andersen because of fairy-tale descriptions. And speaking about social policies, the minister stressed that they are not only challenging in Croatia but throughout the EU, and as the biggest problem, he highlighted trends in population ageing and announced a reform of a whole series of laws and strategic documents relating to social policies and that will help the most vulnerable groups. But in the new Law on Social Welfare that was released in public debate, there is no word about the dignified life of older and powerless and all other vulnerable groups. What has surfaced is the abolition of family homes and the failure to introduce nursing status for older people and families, which the state has promised to introduce and even put into its valid strategy. But let's start with the order, which is not good for the old one. The government has done absolutely nothing to provide an ever-increasing elderly population with adequate living conditions when I can no longer take care of myself. We have the Ministry of Great Name and Minimal Care of the Elders. Sadly, neither the new Law on Social Care will change much except that family homes are abolished. Retired, however, are not happy about it at all, but nothing to anyone. The decision to abolish nearly 500 family homes in Croatia will not help at all but will also make the situation worse in which only 2.6% older than 65. can one day count with a place in the home. The abolition of family homes concerned more than 10,000 families whose older members were stationed in them. It concerned 2,000 people who worked in them, but also over 500 owners who were in their 20s. motivated by the ministry to open exactly these family homes. If one of those 500 homes does not satisfy a level that is not standardised, then it was not until the adoption of the Regulation on minimum conditions adopted only after the Andrasjevac tragedy and all these years has not been controlled, the solution to the problem must not be the abolition of homes but the setting of certain standards. The facilities for the elderly and the powerless are already insufficient, and this decision would punish both the weak and the powerless and the people who care for them in family homes. Instead of dealing with the abolition of the ministry, quality control and standardisation should be involved, and the creation of potential for further improvement of the conditions in family homes. Lucky for them to get a place in the retirement home, they only have rare ones. The existing 50 public homes receiving just over 10,000 users cannot cover half the needs of older people in Croatia. Private homes, one hundred receive half as many users and cost twice as much and rarely anyone in Croatia can even afford that kind of concern. And family homes that have surfaced across the country as the third option of housing the elderly obviously go into history because the government is the Republic of Croatia after only 20 years. She realized that they allegedly proved to be a bad solution. In the homes of social care there are 16.613 users, and in all accommodation providers of older and powerless persons 28.527 users. Therefore, Croatia has an army of 800,000 poor, a social bomb that can break at any time, made up of people who have worked their whole lives, and everything seems to end up without any concern. For the end, I can't help but ask a question, what exactly is a phenomenal minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61370	Now we go to the choice, appointments and resolutions. Proposal for a Decision on discharge and appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. The proposer is the President of the Croatian Parliament, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of Davor Orlovic and the appointment of Davor Orlovic as Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague, Vrkljan, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61371	Mr. President of the Assembly, Article 14 of our Rules of Procedure has been injured, and the point is that you, as first and equal among us, are also a parliamentary representative, and you are obliged to maintain the integrity of the assembly. This decision to vote on Mr. Orlic 9, 10 months after his working relationship expired in some way is a rude violation of the dignity of the assembly and I ask you to personally understand why it is so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61372	Thank you very much, I have explained this, and there have been consultations and arrangements within the ruling majority, and the practice has been such that the secretaries have been held to discharge to act on that duty. So this isn't the first time. That's my explanation. I therefore now vote again on the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of Davor Orlovic as Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 100 MPs, 91 were for and 9 abstentions, and thus the proposed decision was taken. Before we move on to free speech, only a few information, so the Committee on Information, Information and Media, in accordance with the decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system must hold a re-session, it will be on Monday at the time you will get the information when it is. We will begin with a plenary session Tuesday at 9:30 p.m., and after that, we will discuss the proposal for a decision to appoint the head director of HRT on Wednesday at 9:30 p.m. and after that we will discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Reconstruction. Of course, you will be notified of the other points in time. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, colleague Rasdic. Just a moment, please, please, just be patient about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Please, colleagues and colleagues, please sit down for another 30 seconds, then wait a little while to empty the assembly room. My colleagues and colleagues, who won't listen please leave the assembly, who wants to stay, I pray for a little more stage on the left and on the right. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61373	Article 238 of this agenda, the demeaning of parliamentary MPs, as the ruling majority continues to insist on the Octobering of the new head of HRT, who is in an eclectic conflict of interest. Today, the opposition has won a great victory, and our battle will continue because of your continued Octoberation and we will not allow you to rape the public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61374	It is your right to be democratic, and it is my right and obligation to warn you because you have abused the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61517	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we're going to the first item, as announced. Declaration on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 154, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and by representative Marija Selak Rasudić. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Ivica Šushak. First, the first amendment to the law on, the amendment of the Committee on Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the amendment is accepted in a changed form for a more precise nomotechnical arrangement. This amendment prescribes conditions for the selection of the Director of the Centre in a way that one of the prescribed conditions for the selection of directors is and has achieved a working experience in the scientific activities in the field of education and education so that the candidates who have gained their work experience in the field of education and education, for example, work in colleges, can be taken here in the selection of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61519	Thank you very much. It's getting complicated...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61520	The amendment is proposed to subst. 2... the following words of work experience add words to the scientific activities in the field of education and education in the modified form. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what it should say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61521	Okay. It becomes an integral part, and, on behalf of the Proposer, the board, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61522	On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the HS, I accept the amendment in the amended form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61523	Okay, it's becoming an integral part. Representative Marija Selak Rasudić submitted the 2nd amendment, number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61524	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61525	Since the honourable MPs are gone, we must vote on that. Amendment 2 to the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61526	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61527	No MPs, we have to vote on that. Amendment 3 to the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61528	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61529	That's what we have to vote on. And Amendment 4 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61530	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61531	Then we must vote on the amendment. Okay. That's where we ended up with the amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u61532	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 154. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and by Parliamentarian Marija Selak Rasudiæ, we held the statement earlier at the session and we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture has proposed one amendment, the government has accepted it in an amended form, with which the applicant agreed and becomes an integral part of the law in the amended form. And we have four amendments to Maria Selak Rasudic, the government does not accept them, so we will vote on all four. First Amendment, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. Two, let's vote again. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Three, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And we're going to the last Fourth Amendment. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Nor has this amendment received the required number of votes, so let us move to a vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 120 MPs and MPs, 78 for, 20 abstentions, 22 against by passing the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Proposal for a Law on adult education, first reading, P.Z. No. 168, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on adult education is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? It voted 123 MPs and MPs, 112 for, 8 abstentions and 3 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62024	Yes, we would therefore like to use this pause on behalf of HSS and RF for the issue we consider most important at the moment, which is the issue of inflation and the question of unstable prices. Namely, I warn you that we have received a report from the CNB relating to the second term of 2020. on price stability and monetary policy. I'll remind you, and if the CNB had one of the basic goals means price control, it would be simple, and I'd say it's like in Nazi Germany you're talking about ecology, a good topic at the wrong time. So we are also talking about price inflation through this report on the second half of 2020. at the time when inflation has been the largest since 2013, at the time when prices of basic supplies rise, at the moment when fuel prices rise and heating prices rise. I would remind you that we should discuss this and this point should be on the agenda, unfortunately we got it in this form, at a time when before this inflation we had 7% of the population that couldn't pay for the heating, 300,000 people in Croatia couldn't single out for the heating bills, at this point I think colleagues and colleagues that we should give due respect, and the CNB should give a report which is therefore related to this dramatic moment that we are in. So we're looking for a break to warn that this type of reaction to the situation we're in is not appropriate. I'll remind you that the government has spoken to the unions the other day, they've concluded that there are no problems and that inflation is the only thing that needs to be monitored. And Minister Aladrovic said he would only consider raising minimum wage even though Minister Aladrovic has a legal obligation to raise minimum wage And until the end of this month. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62025	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance It is noted that half-yearly information is given, please vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 116 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 27 abstentions, 13 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the home working body. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, first reading, P.Z. No. 177. The promoter is the Government, the debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, and I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Who is it for? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 123 MPs and MPs voted again, 113 for, 8 abstentions, 2 against and a conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62564	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Mosta Club is looking for a break about this 1st point to elect the Supreme Court president. The Supreme Court has the possibility of affecting judicial practice, correcting bad decisions by judges and courts, increasing the efficiency of judges. It is therefore possible to support the election of Radovan Dobronic as Supreme Court President, but it is not a bienko support, because we will measure him every year with his report that brings him here to the Croatian Parliament exactly according to those parameters that he himself listed. This week they marked the subject of the judiciary. The election of the Supreme Court president, the HDZ verdict for corruption, as well as the illegal forced way of bringing the debate on the election of HRT directors to this high house. And if we're going to talk about what cancer is of the early Croatian society, then it's the judiciary. And if we're going to talk about where to start changing from, then we need to change from this home, from this place. It is therefore impossible, inadmissible that an illegal attempt is made to conduct a debate on the selection of the director of HRT. And what's worse than all that is, he's trying to do it against the law while the head director of HRT is at the moment he's stepped down from power in custody, and the man he's trying to push through as the new director of HRT is the man himself admitted to being already in conflict of interest. And if we talk about who creates a climate in society, which is why there is impatience towards politicians, according to politics in general in the Republic of Croatia, then it is because of our decisions and I call on you to make honorable decisions, so politics in Croatia will be honorable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62565	Thank you very much. The apartment is approved. Here you go, pal Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62566	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club to further consult on taking a stand on a candidate for Supreme Court President. Namely, there are several supporting elements. The first way of elections was contaminated and instrumented by two factors of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and turned into a personal male competition that offended the role and importance of the Supreme Court. The second applies to a candidate programme that in general has missed out from the public perspective other than the pit and conctarian avoidance of a clear position in the Lex Perkovic case. The candidate is uninvited, out of context, which was supposed to be music for permanent ears in the programme regarding historical controversy which is the subject of serious social opposition. Page 11 of the programme presented the selective legal and historical unfounded ideological interpretation without a standstill in the Constitution and the laws that qualified the candidate as a teacher of general defence and social self-defense or politician of a particular ideological direction, but not for the President of the Supreme Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62567	And this break will be approved. A colleague of Oreshkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62568	I thank the president. On behalf of the Party Club, Center and Party, I request a 10-minute recess for additional consultations. Namely, the election of the Supreme Court president reopened and raised the issue of reform of the Croatian judiciary. And here I must point out that the reform of the Croatian judiciary is neither a burden nor the responsibility of the Supreme Court president but ours. And I invite you all together to take this reform in the same direction as Judge Radovan Dobronic described and outlined it in his work and action plan. The reform of the judiciary should primarily deal with the content and quality of rights and less with mere form. It would also call for a full political scene to pay attention to what Judge Radovan Dobronic pointed to, and these are hidden levers of power, but also the responsibility of authorities, authorities, HDZ authorities to create a situation that we can describe as a legalized thief. This way I congratulate Judge Radovan Dobronic on his election and appointment, and I also call on all judges, not only the Supreme Court judges, but all other judges, in what Judge Radovan through the judiciary wants to be his help and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62569	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62570	I thank the chairman. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club in order to actually reaffirm once again that we will, of course, support the choice of Judge Dobronic as Supreme Court President, but also pointed out that one of our key expectations in judicial reform, but also setting an example at the level of the Supreme Court, are to speed up procedures, especially those concerning criminal proceedings related to political corruption. We have had opportunities to see these days what the flow of time really means in procedures concerning corruption, literally the political summit of the country. The ruling in the Fimi-media case in which the HDZ as the ruling party is also responsible, declared responsible for corruption, shows in fact that justice that does not come quickly enough does not achieve the social effects it should achieve. This is also seen in the fact that there is amnesia, oblivion, and even at the level of you as speaker of the assembly that at the time you were a minister and that your ministry was dealing with the Fimi-media, that you were all members of the presidency at the same time as HDZ, and that it is now said that today's HDZ has nothing to do with it. This flow of time is caused by the fact that our courts very often, rather than altering the decisions of the lower courts themselves, return the proceedings to a retrial, and thus we have ribbons that last 11-12 years, some affairs for 15 years. They're in court and they're still not cleared. This is what we need from the President of the Supreme Court, but also from the future reform of the judiciary, I'm just not sure the HDZ should be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62571	We're about to hear from our colleague Katičić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62572	The Honorable President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs. And I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of HDZ to further explain and consult on the proposal already made in public. The reasons the HDZ, which will support this proposed candidate, will repeatedly show and indicate in this assembly. But I think it is necessary to point out again and repeat that Judge Dobronic meets all the conditions of a public call. Furthermore, the call also took place in accordance with the procedure laid down, which was also indicated by the decision, the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, a hearing of all candidates who were in front of the relevant Committee on Justice was held and opinions and general meetings of the Supreme Court were collected. On the parent committee in the parliamentary committee, two candidates, or two candidates, received a positive opinion from Mr. Dobrinić and Mr. Mrcel. We believe that, afterwards, a candidate who is now ahead of us is proposed, we believe that it is also in the interest of the Croatian judiciary to appoint the president in the Supreme Court to continue to implement the necessary reforms. For the end, and as for the lunches relating to the recent verdict, I repeat that there is no legal and collective responsibility and guilt but also the responsibility of any legal person, including the political party, comes out of individual proven personal responsibilities. Therefore, many HDZ members certainly do not accept such imposed collective relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62573	Before I give my word to my colleague Sacic, I ask my colleagues who don't have a mask to put on a mask. Here's a colleague of Sacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62574	Dear President, I am also looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club on the election of the Supreme Court President, and all in the context and possible correlation between yesterday's judicial verdict in the Fimi-media affair and the punishment of all actors including HDZ which could be, absolutely, absolutely incomprehensible to us that after so many years, such a verdict had seen the light of the public the day before the vote of the new Supreme Court President. Therefore, we will focus particular attention in our consultations on whether there is any connection to the fact that the President of the Supreme Court is elected by the publication of that verdict and in particular, why it was published yesterday, why it has not been published earlier, and in particular why it has not been announced since the election of the Supreme Court President?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62575	Now it's time for a colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62576	Thank you, dear, thank you, dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This circus, this tape, this dispersal procedure of electing the Supreme Court president has become degutant, but more than that has become burdensome for the state, has become burdensome for the Croatian judiciary, which is also without this at the very bottom of the EU justice systems. And that's why, in all that story, the only thing that's good is that we're going to get rid of that tape today, and everything else is bad for our colleagues and colleagues. The message we sent to the Croatian judiciary and the message we sent to Croatian citizens is bad because we showed that we do not have that seriousness in times of need, and because of whom, because of the HDZ which had its own procedure at the time at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, I have to react after my colleague Katičić spoke. Perhaps the punishment stems from the individual's responsibilities, but a respected colleague, the confiscation of 14.5 million kunas illegally acquired property benefits stems from the legal personality of the HDZ party. The court found that HDZ took that money. The court finds that HDZ has acquired this money unlawfully, the court has ordered HDZ to pay that money back and I hope that, with the return of that money, you will pay interest because you have wrongly used that money for at least 12 years, and unfortunately, at least that much what the court told you in judgment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62577	Stanka has been approved and his last application is from counterpart Hajdukovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62578	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. We at the Social Democrats Club will, of course, support the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. We have been solving this tape we have been witnessing for a long time in the Croatian public space, but the problems of the judiciary, as my colleagues have said before me, will not, by this act alone, be resolved. Although the candidate, still a candidate, and after the vote, I believe the President of the Supreme Court has some good ideas and if he has given a good analysis of the situation in the judiciary, we are not giving him any support, we will follow his order and evaluate all the reports that are coming before this House of Commons. But as I said, the problems of the judiciary will not be solved by his choice. The suspicion, sometimes justified suspicion of the Croatian citizens' impartiality and efficiency of the Croatian judiciary will not be resolved, and we do not give a good impression nor send a good message to those who sit in these benches because there is a criminal responsibility, but there is also a political one. You say, HDZ colleagues, that you've accepted criminal charges, but you're not political because Pedro hangs, and Pedro doesn't seem to remember. No one worked with Eve Sanader, no one took a photo with Eve Sanader, no one was sitting in the government, in the presidency, with Eve Sanader. No one had a career with Eve Sanader. But what's more important to me than this, because we knew what the verdict would be, I expected it, HDZ is equal to corruption, it's nothing new, but what kind of money I'm interested in paying that punishment from? Because if you pay from the money you get for political action, the penalty you robbed Croatia will pay our money, you will pay taxpayers' money, you will pay my money and all those who pay the tax fairly. That's not good. Just don't wear black bags again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62579	Stanka's been approved and it's, no one's signed up anymore, so we'll go to the vote then. I'll give it to.../incomprehensible/... I'll do it in accordance with article. 293b, so we can proceed immediately without a real break, so I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the election of Radovan Dobronic as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 123 MPs and MPs voted, 120 were in favour, 3 were against and thus a decision was taken on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Judge Dobronic will swear on his oath, so he will swear on Monday right after the weekend. Final proposal of the Law on the institutional framework for the use of the European Union funds in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 135, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on an institutional framework for the use of the European Union funds in the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Once again, 123 MPs and MPs voted 90 for, 33 abstentions so that the Law on the institutional framework for the use of the European Union funds in the Republic of Croatia was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62851	Now we have one point with a) and b. (a) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President of the Governing Council of HERA and under (b) Proposal for a decision appointing the President of the Governing Council of HERA. The motion is government, the debate is closed. So (a) I am voting on the proposal for that resolution, please vote. Who's in? Excuse me, Comrade Vrkljan, Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. We're gonna stop the vote now, and we're gonna do it again, I didn't see the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62852	President-in-Office of the Assembly, I have already talked twice about this problem where you, as speaker of the assembly, questioned the importance of the assembly because you allowed the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Executive Authority to be in charge of the work of the Assembly, which you know is this Assembly 2018. passed a law which requires the selection of members of the Governing Council of HERA and the president of HERA to take place exclusively in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. and shall not be subject to executive authority. [[Agreement: Thank you colleague Vrkljan]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u62853	Thank you, fellow Vrkljan. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, if you consider it to have been the case, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. So, I am voting on a motion for a decision on the resolution of Tomislav Jurekovic, acting as chairman of the HERA Board of Directors. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 115 MPs and MPs, 109 for, 5 abstentions, so we made a decision on the resolution of the president of the Governing Council of HERA. I am now voting under b) the motion for a decision to appoint Daniel Zmboki as chairman of the HERA Board of Directors. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 118 deputies and MPs voted, 76 for, 3 abstentions, 39 against, and a decision was taken to appoint the chairman of the HERA Board of Directors. Decision appointing the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63585	Report on the effects of the implementation of measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease outbreak caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 June to 31 August 2021. The applicant is the government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: That report shall be adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 120 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were for, 27 abstentions and 17 against, and the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63638	We are going to the next item, which is: - The final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the state area of another country (Croatian-German Agreement on Hosting Forces), second reading, P.Z. No. 169; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 4(1)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 207th Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The above-mentioned Article. The 207a Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws which are approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(2). 197 Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zdravko Jakop, please. Guys, we can sit in places for a little...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63639	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and representatives of HS. Good relations between the Republic of Germany and the Republic of Germany in defence are a continuation of good co-operation between the two countries in other areas of cooperation and joint efforts to maintain peace and stability in Europe. The current co-operation of the defence ministries of the two countries has been achieved through official visits, exchange of experiences in the area of common interest, participation in exercises and training, and in peace support operations and other activities abroad. In the context of efforts to further improve mutual co-operation in the field of defence, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence, launched a procedure for the conclusion of this Agreement. The Agreement was signed in Zagreb on 16 June 2021, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Agreement was signed by the Minister of Defence and, on behalf of the Government of the SR of Germany, the Extraordinary and Authorised Ambassador of the Republic of Germany to the Republic of Germany. This Act confirms the Agreement in order to ensure that its provisions are complied with. 141 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. By adopting this Act, the Republic of Croatia will meet the internal and legal conditions for the entry into force of the Agreement, which, in the relations of the two States, comes from the provisions of the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Legal Position of their Forces, establish a bilateral international and legal framework. Additional rules shall be laid down for the entry, exit and temporary stay of members of the OSRH in SR Germany and members of the Armed Forces of the SR Germany in the Republic of Germany. The Agreement regulates the issue of entry, exit and temporary stay in the territory of the State of the other Party for the purposes of training, training, land transit and humanitarian assistance activities and search and rescue operations. The agreement shall regulate the presence of forces and the issue of security, health, criminal jurisdiction, environmental protection and transport. Unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement, the entry into the receiving State, exit from it and temporary stay in the receiving State and members of the OSCE of the country of dispatch shall be governed by NATO SOFA and by the laws and regulations of the receiving State. The members of an OS shall be obliged to comply with international health regulations and national health regulations of the receiving State. The competent authorities of the impregnating State shall recognise and recognise the importance of environmental protection in the context of activities carried out by members of the SCS of the receiving State. The members of the OSC of the Consignor State shall comply with the legal provisions of the receiving State in the protection of the environment. The parties will resolve the claim for possible damage in accordance with NATO SOFA provisions. The exercise shall be subject to the legal provisions of the receiving State and to the regulations on the service of its OS. The exercises on land are usually carried out on military polygons, shooting sites and other military training facilities. Any dispute on the application or interpretation of this Agreement will be settled by agreement in consultations between the two parties and will not be referred to the third parties for resolution. This Agreement may be amended and complemented at any time by mutually signed party access. This Agreement shall enter into force on the date on which the parties notify each other by diplomatic means that the national conditions for its entry into force have been met. The Agreement shall remain in force indefinitely, each Party may terminate the Agreement with written notice of the other Party by diplomatic means. In order to implement this Act, it is not necessary to provide additional funding from the state budget as it will take place through the regular activities of the MORH. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which both the state and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that changes or additions to the text of the international contract are not generally possible at this stage of the procedure, this Final Bill Proposal is proposed. Here, honourable MPs and MPs in HS, please support the adoption of the proposed law. And especially, here, it's my pleasure to be in this House today when our headquarters celebrates and marks the 30th anniversary. 30 years ago we were formed, today we are also able to work on international agreements at this level with friendly countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63640	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Defence Committee, Franco Vidovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63641	Thank you, dear Vice President. In the introduction, I would take advantage of the occasion when the Assistant Secretary of State, I apologize, already mentioned, to congratulate on behalf of the Defence Committee, the General Staff of the 30th anniversary of existence. Therefore, at the 10th session held on 16 September 2021, the HS Defence Committee discussed the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the territory of another State (Croatian-German guest forces agreement) submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act on 19 August 2021. 71 The HS Rules of Procedure discussed the act in question, as a home working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the adoption of the law in question would be in accordance with Article. 141 The Constitution of the Republic of Germany shall be subject to the internal and legal conditions for entry into force of the Agreement establishing, in the relations between the Republic of Germany and the Republic of Germany, a bilateral international and legal framework and laying down additional rules for the entry, exit and temporary stay of the members of the OSRH and the SR of Germany in the territory of the State of the other Party for the purposes of training, training, transit and others. The application of the Agreement signed in Zagreb on 16 June 2021 will allow for further extension of the area and forms of cooperation in the field of defence and issues of common interest. The Defence Committee decided unanimously with 8 votes to propose to HS that it adopt a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the territory of another State and the Croatian-German Agreement on Hosting Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63642	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the respected representative of Willim Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63643	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Good morning. In front of us, another in a series of agreements is related to the international military co-operation of the OSCE with the armed forces of the partner country, in this case the SR of Germany, although both Croatia and Germany are allies within NATO and the hosting of the OSCE in the Allies countries is already regulated, so on. NATO SOFA agreement further regulates bilateral relations between Germany and Croatia related to the OSCE's stay in the territories of those countries. OSCE residents in other countries under this Agreement will serve for training, training, transit, humanitarian assistance and search and rescue operations. The Green-Left bloc club in principle supports bilateral military co-operation with those countries that have developed democratic standards that do not violate human rights and when co-operation with countries is not only about military co-operation but there are also significant components of development cooperation between the two countries. In the case of SR Germany, these conditions are met and in this context we have no objection to this kind of cooperation. It is important that the bilateral co-operation of the OSCE is regulated by an agreement that respects NATO's SOFA agreement. We are also aware that this Agreement will facilitate the activities of the OSCE, such as the organisation of the training of the Croatian OS on the German military range Grafenwöhr, as well as the departure of the HRZ pilot to the physiological training at the German Air Medicine Centre Konigsbruck. However, we would like to draw attention to the two elements set out in this proposal for the Agreement. First of all, we would like to see that, in the light of this Agreement, the MORH, in more detail, informed HS of the exercises, trainings or cooperation on the provision of humanitarian aid which the OSRH carried out or intends to implement with the OSR. Germany. How many of these guests will be on our territory in the next year, and how many in German? This is how it remains unclear what strategic definitions are, why are we entering this Agreement with Germany? So, the content component of this Agreement is missing, so the Honorable Ministers, please give us more information on this. The second thing that got us worried about reading this Agreement is that in art. 7 of the agreements governing criminal jurisdiction and coercion measures, we have noticed that the Agreement is going towards narrowing down criminal jurisdiction against members of the OSCE State of the Staining State. We do not understand the reason why the receiving State is required to refrain from a wider criminal jurisdiction. The agreement calls for criminal jurisdiction to be narrowed down only to criminal offences of great importance, which negatively affect the security of the receiving State and the offences that have caused the death of a person, which is clear, as well as serious criminal acts against physical integrity, sexual self-determination, except where those acts are directed against members of the SIRENE State and attempt to commit and participate in such criminal acts. What about the other crimes? Here, as an example. Let's say that we, our soldiers go, uh, to Germany or German soldiers come here, okay, this is here and clear, if with the death of a person of heavy, acts against physical integrity, but what if they do something, I don't know, people do other crimes, say, robbery, which is why, uh, if the Germans come here, say, or we there and let the team be bold and do something, which, if our guys did something like that, we judge here? Here, these things, not to list further possible crimes. It's not clear on what basis it is. Why would the Croatian judiciary not have jurisdiction over them if they were committed, for example, in Croatia? We don't see any rational reasons why the jurisdiction of the receiving country would be limited here, so please, Secretary of State explain to us why this formulation took place in the Agreement? And depending on the clarifications, the Green-Left bloc club will take its stand on the proposal for this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63644	The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, the respected representative Franco Vidovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63645	... determines... [[Specially enabled.]] Confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the OSCE and the SR of Germany in the territory of another State (Croatian-German guest forces agreement). [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The purpose of the Agreement in question is to establish a legal framework for the implementation of activities related to the entry, stay and exit of members of the two States in the territory of another State. The text of the Agreement in question is the result of a multiannual process during which amendments and proposals have been adopted on the initial text, until both sides agree on the final draft of the law, the proposal for the Agreement. The length of the coordination process is in some way also a guarantee of the quality of the agreed text of the Agreement. In particular, concrete steps in the start-up of the process were initiated on 8 December 2016 when the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Agreement and adopted the draft agreement as the basis for the conduct of the negotiations. In the meantime, the Ministry of Defence submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia 2 reports on the lead negotiations for the conclusion of the Agreement, first in March 2018, and the second new report in November 2020, finally, after the completion of the agreement process, the Agreement was signed in Zagreb on 16 June 2021 by the adoption of a law confirming the Agreement in question, the provisions of the Agreement will become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. What's this deal gonna get you? The Agreement will set up a legal framework for both parties for the entry, exit and temporary stay of members of the OSCE in the territory of the State of the other Party. The agreement precisely regulates the type, scope and duration of stay, conditions of entry, exit and stay, issues of public security of order, the issue of public health, the issue of criminal jurisdiction and measures of coercion, the use of public telecommunications services in the receiving country. Environmental protection issues are also regulated in the context of activities carried out in the receiving country, the transport of motor vehicles, the OS of the sending country, as well as the use of airports on the ground of the host country. Furthermore, the Agreement regulates the questions of claims for damage caused and provides for the implementation of exercises to be subject to the legal regulations of the receiving State. Although the text of the Agreement cannot be changed at this stage, it is worth noting that it is an art. 15 The Agreement provides that mutual written consent may amend or supplement the Agreement at any time and that each Party may terminate it with written notice to the other Party. Good relations between the Republic of Germany and the SR of Germany in the area of defence are a continuation of good co-operation between the two countries and in other areas, in maintaining peace and stability in Europe. Croatia and Germany have intensive and long-term good co-operation. In January 2022, we will mark the 30th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. Confirmation of good bilateral relations was signed by the Action Plan on enhanced cooperation of March 2019 and further updated this year and numerous and regular meetings of Croatian and German officials reached at all levels. Chancellor Merkel visited the Republic of Croatia twice in 2019. Bilateral defence cooperation, intensive and content and the result of Croatia's clear orientation towards Germany as the main strategic partner in Europe in the area of defence. The members of the OSCE of Croatia and Germany together participate in NATO on what is important to mention joint long-term participation in the NATO mission in Afghanistan, then in the German-led battle group on the territory of Lithuania, as well as NATO preparedness initiatives and other international actions. We also have significant cooperation within the EU, as under German leadership we participate in EU combat groups. Also, cooperation is achieved through PESCO activities. Croatia is active in 6 PESCO projects, with two military mobility activities and a network of logistics hubs in Europe and support operations, working closely with the German side. In the Social Democrats Club, we believe that further and deeper cooperation will have a long-term and positive impact on the agreement in question, as it will enable the two sides to train and train together to ensure that they can work together in future missions. The Social Democrats Club will support the adoption of this Act on the Confirmation of the Agreement in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63646	In the name of the SDP Club, the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63647	As it went in the movies, you run away, the Germans go. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the OSCE in the territory of another country. However, I would like to say that it is common provisions in the agreements of the two countries, because otherwise, without any doubt, that any state would send its soldiers to another country without having at least that level of protection because the military is not going to another country but on military matters or military exercises and, of course, when there are more people, it is possible that certain adverse incidents that, by means of such an agreement, can happen in some way, rather than when tourists go to, therefore, another country, and that makes sense to me. Therefore, the courts and authorities of the imperator State shall not exercise their criminal jurisdiction over the receiving State, unless it is done, in so far as criminal acts of great importance affecting the security of the receiving State or criminal offences that have caused the death of the person, as well as serious criminal acts against physical integrity and sexual self-determination, unless those acts are directed against members of the SIRENE State and attempt to commit and take part in such criminal acts. What can be a second question, and as it is a bilateral agreement that has been negotiated, so we cannot even change it there, and that would be more of a question for NATO or even the EU Commission, which, this, is criminal issues within the EU. So there are European arrest warrants and there are some different treatments of citizens of another EU country compared to non-EU nationals, and the only question could therefore be asked whether at NATO level, or at EU and NATO level, alliances for those countries that are members of both associations make some kind of a single agreement or a single act or a single policy. Of course, that comes to the question that the EU, the federalisation of Europe and so on, and then of course we will have these sovereign ideas that this should not, therefore, be, what I said and in the case of the President of the Supreme Court, what is, which works, let's not fix. I believe that, therefore, this Agreement has been negotiated, that the negotiations have lasted long and that such an agreement can therefore be supported, if they exist, there are problems in implementation, there are clear mechanisms that it can be changed and improved and in that sense I want to say that German soldiers in Croatia and Croatian soldiers in Germany will be protected. If I tried to explain a little more to the citizens, we certainly wouldn't be happy if our soldiers were to go to a foreign country, that it could happen to them that, therefore, they were judged by the laws of the state, especially, if it were the death penalty, or if there were forms of punishment that, type, were not exactly, this one, which is not quite this, popular in Western countries. Therefore, by understanding the circumstances that led to the conclusion of this Agreement and its contents, we support the Government in the proposal for this Agreement, this Act and the SDP Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63648	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63649	Good afternoon, everyone. So here is the Croatian-German guest forces agreement, and we can get right to the point. So here's the real problem with this art. 7 on the criminal jurisdiction of Article 2, whether, which states, if the authorities of the receiving NATO SOFA State have exclusive criminal jurisdiction or the primary right to exercise criminal jurisdiction over members of the SIRENE State, the authority of the receiving State shall refrain from exercising such jurisdiction unless the relevant reasons regarding the exercise of the jurisdiction of the receiving State do not make it necessary to exercise such criminal jurisdiction. It is clear, therefore, that in this related article which we have warned the legislator of the Committee on Law, it could therefore happen that a German soldier commits a crime during his stay in Croatia and that Croatia refrains from being persecuted. This provision, except in some cases of serious crime or.../incomprehensible/... is very undefined. Therefore, the members of the Committee who were present during the debate on this point also noted this. And now, we can, of course, understand what is here clearly, that it is a bilateral agreement and so what we are giving is going to be given to us in some way, but really, we can't understand that in the debate, the already signed agreement is being sent to the Assembly, and that it really can't be influenced in any way by the Parliament, so MPs and MPs can't influence the content and articles of this Agreement. It's, it's incomprehensible. I have to say that what was really said and in the debate itself got a very strange answer. So, the question asked to the secretary of state to answer it like that, little bit, let's say, in some perhaps family tone, but anyway, we are here on board in HS, to be happy that such an agreement is signed because we are signing it with a large European country and I think that there is a moment when we need to draw the line and say that all our agreements with large European countries are written in this way and that in all such agreements and bilateral agreements we are not really an equal party. What should never be the case is that we take the German side or any other side, whether, on the side, the great European countries this way. What this kind of, I think, and what has been presented to us as an agreement shows is pure autocolonialism, this servant mentality that gives up even its legal system and is happy, is what it does, because here we sign agreements with big countries. I will pay a little more attention to other things that are interesting when such an agreement comes which, I say, might have been able to work out, we could have discussed it, he could have been better, but we didn't have a chance to do it, is it, we served it as a done thing, let's be happy that the Germans signed such an agreement with us, so I will pay attention to one more important thing in which we should always mention when we talk about defence, especially at the moment when the first and basic topic in Croatia is inflation, i.e. the increase in fuel prices, and the resulting increase in the price of heating and increase, in general, the price, means for food products at the moment when one third of people in Croatia live in conditions of poverty in which 7% of people before this crisis had no potential, therefore, to pay for heating. At that point, we sign these kind of servant autocolonial agreements, and at the same time we buy Rafael fighter planes for 999 million euros, colleagues and colleagues. At the moment when everyone's talking, there's no money, we can't find any sources, which we would, say, co-finance, bring down the limit of that amount, or raise the limit of that amount that is needed for the vouchers for the subsidized heating, or, say, subsidize the public transport in which it really is, right now, very important for those who can't drive cars anymore, and have the opportunity to drive public transport, or limit the means, fuel prices, at that point, here, we are now buying Rafael planes for 999 million euros. I asked the Secretary of Defense how many routing payments will be made for those, as they assure us, very favourable planes, yes. I did not get an answer, i.e. on June 5th, excuse me, October 5th, that right now, here, colleagues and colleagues, now in this meaning inflation, sign this contract between France and Croatia, and this contract will also be defined by the payment. Well, great, great moment for us to maybe stop the meal payment by the time this inflation calms down and until the moment we're still in a more favourable position. Of course, though, such suggestions will not come from the ruling majority. Here, we are satisfied with the signing of such bilateral agreements that are actually unilateral and we need that to be clear. I'm just going to tell you that we should always repeat, when it comes to defence, that we are NATO members who entered NATO alliance with an explanation that it will be cheaper for us to pay about 3% of GDP for our own defence, in order to be very recently, whether, in fact, by buying 12 planes and reaching that amount of 2% of GDP in defense, which isn't much more, is it? And our goal is to reach those 2% of the GDP for defense separation. And where did we reach this agreement that we singled out 2% of GDP for the defense? Nowhere. It's a unilateral NATO decision that came to us as a commitment that we took from each other at the moment when people starve, here, we're going to buy planes and get to 2% of GDP for the defense. We've asked multiple times how much other items cost, so I'll just let you know. We're going to set aside 161 million kunas, equipping a multi-purpose helicopter with 57 million kuna, Rafael planes, means 999 million euros, we're going to spend 5 billion kunas on the active army, we're paying 31 million kuna membership annually, and now we're going to get to that famous 2%. I, colleagues and colleagues, ask you, at this very moment when we are signing these unilateral autocolonial and servant agreements and agreements, we still have to ask you the question of the amount allocated to this one, for these purposes and for the possibility of preventing some of it and stopping at a time when we have one of the largest inflations in a country where there are also one third of the population in poverty. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63650	We are now going to an individual debate and will speak to the esteemed representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I don't see this Agreement as a servant but I see it as actually a legal prerequisite for co-operation and formalising the conditions for cooperation that is already great and good. So, the legal framework for the implementation of activities related to the entry and stay and exit of members of the OSCE of the two countries that are already taking place, we just want to edit them. He would draw attention to this opportunity if we were already working very well with the OS SR Germany. Our bilateral defence cooperation is very intense, we cooperate, of course, and we are allies in NATO, where Croatian forces are also staying in Lithuania, so in a NATO mission under the command of the SR Germany. But we also have significant cooperation in the EU framework because under German leadership we also participate in EU combat groups, perhaps the start of a new European army, but then we will see about it. Also, cooperation is achieved through PESCO activities, Croatia is active in 6 PESCO projects, with two military mobility activities and a network of logistics hubs in Europe and support operations, and we work closely with the German side. So, as I said, the agreement will set up a legal framework for both parties to enter, exit, the temporary stay of the OS in the state area of another country, the other party, pardon. It is also the agreement that formalises and precisely regulates the type, scope and duration of stay, conditions of entry, exit and residence of the OSCE in the territory of another country, issues of public security of order, the issue of public health. Also, criminal jurisdiction and measures of coercion, the use of public telecommunications services and other issues in the receiving country. Environmental protection issues are also regulated in the context of activities carried out in the receiving country, the transport of motor vehicles, the OS of the sending State, as you know, if it is combat vehicles, it is then a special transport, as well as the use of airports on the ground of the host country which may also be one of the species and most often, the transport of military equipment and personnel. The Agreement also regulates the questions of claims for damage caused and prescribes that the exercise is subject to public regulations of the receiving State. So, in conclusion, I would say that this will only affect the development of further and deeper cooperation and has a long-term and positive impact on the wording because it will enable the two sides to train and train together to ensure that they can work together in future missions. I remind you, this is just formalizing the cooperation that already exists. So, in numerous NATO and UN missions, Croatian forces already operate very often under German leadership or command. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63652	We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63653	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic, you mentioned at one point the possibility of establishing a European army in your presentation. So that's something that we know that France, or their president, Macron, has talked about on several occasions, talked about and talked about something that is being thought about. It's an initiative that I'd say is partly interesting but there's always some other side of the medal. Your experience in certain bodies at EU level is of little interest to me whether this initiative is only on the subject of the show exercise that the French always love to have and be the leader now because some things in Europe's political world will change by leaving Chancellor Merkel after all. A new leader and a new story will be sought, so I wonder how realistic and realistic it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63654	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63655	Thank you, colleagues, for this matter, I'm more concerned with European issues less defensively, but I can tell you that so-called. The euro army or the European core or whatever you want to call it another idea that's in the bandages, so it's something that's developing what's on the table, but at this point it's not at some high-level formalisation. After Brexit, the French Republic is the strongest, military strongest EU member state, so it is also normal for it to lead an initiative within the Union in some defence matters. For now, there are so-called. The EU battle group, which may be as I said in the beginning and some more serious and close co-operation in the area of defence. But what is interesting and what will certainly be discussed in the framework of a conference on the future of the EU, which is currently taking place in the conference we had in the Croatian Parliament, is also a common defence policy as well as a common EU foreign policy. But what these discussions will bring out is hard to say now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63656	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63657	So we of the Croatian Sovereigns Club certainly have no doubts and we will support this agreement between our defence systems. However, I would like to hear you, your opinion on this, is justified by concerns about this criminal procedural immunity because we have experience of bitter with UNPROFOR forces here in Croatia when members of their drug smuggling several kilos, doing traffic violations with fatal outcomes, how, we believe that this situation is in principle resolved correctly, however, this is certainly not without the basis of this indication of further resolving these issues by colleague Peovic, as you see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63658	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63659	Thank you very much. So the contract, even though we can't change it at this point as MPs and MPs, can change with the consent of both parties. I wouldn't exactly compare the UNPROFOR mission to what we're talking about here, UNPROFOR was primarily a UN mission and a lot of things were unresolved at that point. Let's not forget we had war operations in Croatia. This, of course, does not encapsulate UNPROFOR members who have been involved in criminal activities or have had fatal accidents, etc. However, when we receive our allies and friends from NATO, I don't think there will be one particularly responsible state like the Federal Republic of Germany, and this contract is just formalizing our own as I said good relations, close cooperation, and I believe that it will only contribute to more bilateral defence, defence exchanges. If there's a problem like I said, we can change them at any time. I don't believe the other side will agree if it's something constructive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63660	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63661	Here I have to react, I think we should all address this, important moment in the assembly when Croatian sovereigns and the Social Democrats agreed on something. I don't know what's more fascinating to me is that the Social Democrats have no problem with a vague legislative decree or that sovereigns deny sovereignty is with one article of the agreement. Well, good. You said this was a great agreement and that it was our friends from NATO, so I ask you what you think about Article 7(2), where it says that the receiving countries will refrain from exercising jurisdiction over criminal offences and a completely unclear definition of what time the receiving State will refrain from such jurisdiction. This is what the members and members of the board who are also legal experts warned about, and this is where it will happen that a German soldier can commit a criminal offence and that Croatia refrains from being persecuted. So that's how it can be interpreted. He said state secrets that it wouldn't be a case, but that's how it's supposed to be written in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63662	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63663	Thank you very much. I don't see that this is about denying the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. We're a member of NATO. It is normal for us and our allies to exchange and have bilateral military cooperation, that members of our armed forces go to exercises in the Federal Republic of Germany, to exchanges as well as reciprocally that members of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany come to our territory. The second thing, therefore, is if we talk about possible doubts about the implementation of the contract, so if the German soldiers can commit crimes, this also applies to Croatian soldiers. But I'm telling you, because until now, it's been the case that they've been staying in our territory without these agreements that these things will not be because we're talking about our allies and responsible states. If you do not believe that Croatia is a responsible state then I am sure we will agree that Germany is a responsible state and that German armed forces will not allow any shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63664	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63665	Thank you. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, given your extensive knowledge, of your experience both through the home Committee on European Affairs and you as a parliamentary representative in general, is interested in the position concerning constitutional provisions which are the basis for this agreement. In addition to the powers conferred on the Government, except for those powers and obligations which the HS has, there is also an art. The 99th century is the 1st century. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia which speaks both roles and tasks, the obligations of the president of the state to co-creating foreign policy together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I point out again in this HS, and I also point out to the public that the Republic of Croatia does not have the co-creation of foreign policy. In no agreement that can be considered part of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia we do not see any touch point of the Imput, content communication with the President of the Republic. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63666	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic:
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63667	Thank you, colleague Oreshkovic. Speaking first of all of the rakurs of someone who's been dealing with foreign affairs this formulation in the Constitution that you mentioned is at least unclear. So, what it means to co-create foreign policy, which is precisely the powers of the President of the Republic, unfortunately we failed to define it more clearly when we moved from half-presidential to parliamentary system, and therefore we often have some noises in channels, disagreements between as two hills and confusion sometimes say in foreign affairs. What the co-creation of foreign policy has come down to, at least if you ask me, is the agreement of both sides when determining the heads of the mission, or we would say the ambassadors we send abroad, but that's what remains. The role of the president is greater in defence, but since this is about an international agreement, it's something that overlaps, but I wouldn't polarise it. At least not for this pay phone when we have a document in front of us that we can't change anymore. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63668	The next one will be spoke by respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63669	Mr. Reiner, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I will tell you today about this Croatian-German agreement, but I will also tell you about the importance of the Croatian army. There are many cooperations between our country and many countries within the EU as well as within the NATO alliance. Although we at the Mosta Club would like to know perhaps a little more details about the content of this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the state area of another state, the Mosta Club is always for cooperation with all European countries in terms of strengthening friendly ties and strengthening military cooperation and as such strengthening the strength of the Croatian Army. I believe that many of us are always focused on protecting Croatian citizens, and in this case also on protecting Croatian soldiers wherever they are in the service of their country. We'd like that protection to be something clearer, but we've heard here from colleagues and colleagues, the negotiations are over, and the Mosta Club will support this. The agreement regulates a number of items from the very framework for cooperation in order to exercise transit, rescue, healthcare, use of communication services, as well as environmental challenging situations that conditions such as this. We live in a very demanding geopolitical area and we should have a strong army, if history is a teacher of life then we are aware that only strong armies and strong partners, strong diplomacy, the development of democratic processes and society itself is as such a guarantee of stability not only in our country but also in our entire geostrategic area. State stability, national interests as such are a prerequisite for each single country's overall stability. To be a plastic, strong, satisfied police-paid good police force, a strong satisfied army also means the safety of every Croat and Croat, every citizen in the Republic of Croatia. What I won't tell you about heart has you here in this meeting of several Croatian defenders and from opposition, here it is up there and General Sacic here has the same option in the ruling option of Croatian volunteers. We have a heart, we've always had it in '91. when, when we stopped in shoes and jeans on Trpinjska cesta as I don't know Marko Babić e.g. Viktorin Jurić-Pasa, Damir Radnic, Zdenko Horvat and the whole team in front of 30 tons of beasts, weren't afraid of boys then as doved young men, and I as one who had just enrolled in high school, so it was all watched by my colleagues who went off the street to defend their country, my boys from the group, from the armada group over 100, practically in a year they all went as volunteers, so the heart we have is known. And then today, in peacetime, we must and as a state, do everything we can to strengthen all our armies. So I don't agree with some thinking that says we don't need a strong army, we don't need ships, we don't need planes, we don't need anything, and maybe some people would really like us to have slingshots, so not until God of war never, never everyone else wants a discreet war, I really believe in it deeply. So, everyone who's intelligent doesn't want war because war is always suffering, war is always pain, war is always the loss of your loved ones, war is always a terrible problem. But there is, of course, a defensive war when you defend your house, your home, your country, and there is an aggressive war, an aggressive war that has taken over the communist Yugoslavia against Croatia, so the JNA with the rebel part of the population, the Chetniks and the rest of the team that attacked our country. So I hold that it is very important that we have a strong army, and on that occasion I wish to congratulate the Armed Forces of 30 years of the Croatian Army, God dearly revived you all, boys and girls, were you to us for a long, long time strong and strong, and then there will come new generations who will be raised in love with their homeland, so God gave you that you should never, but if necessary, new generations will stand on the bumper of the homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63670	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63671	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Parliamentarian, in one part of the Agreement, and you mentioned it in your presentation is a matter of security. I'm absolutely sure that what's important is that we point out that point of security, security because of our soldiers, we know what experience we've had from Afghanistan, I think that this, at all, this topic of Afghanistan is something that has proved to be somehow the shame of liberal democracy and everything else, but it's a special topic, but what we have to insist on is actually security. The safety of our soldiers, the safety of everything, emphasize it both in the Agreement and, of course, take care of it. You know, it's all, it's all good-looking, everything on paper written, but when the first man gets hurt, it's not human life, human life is worth more than anything, and that's why it's important to point out once again in this Agreement that point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63672	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63673	Thank you, colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, for your rep, for asking, for thinking. Yes, definitely, human life is the most valuable, most valuable, but, for example, for me as a Christian, it has no absolute value. So he's the most valuable, most valuable, now we're going into philosophy, and that, that's my profession, but he doesn't have absolute value. It means to me to protect, here, specifically means state, nation as a whole, so we have a right, for example. To defend your country and your people and to realize that we will have losses, but then to see the greater good. And I absolutely agree with this, so it's the job of the state and the relevant to do everything our boys, our girls in the HV, are safe, protected, that none of us like to listen, read and watch when terrible things happen in the HV when our guys die, when some accidents happen, so here, I think there's also the job of the state and the relevant, so I said to be happy and to watch out for safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63674	The next replica is the respected MPs Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63675	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Miletic, in your presentation, you have somehow paid the most attention to security. Yes, the fact is that security definitely stems from the military readiness of a particular state, however, given that this is very specific about R. Germany, I would say that it is safe, and it is especially safe from the perspective and the way that the Croatian citizens experience it because it is a reliable, well-organised, well-organised legal state. So again on the same subject, as I have replicated to my colleagues, Hajdukovic, I will say that the problem of the Croatian state is that it is not a legal state, which is not a safe and stable rule of law as much as it does not respect, for starters, the provisions of its own Constitution and it is unacceptable for parliamentary representatives to re-emerge in every international contract that is confirmed here to ignore the article. 99 A constitution that requires foreign policy to be co-created. This Agreement doesn't come out of it. [[Employed: Dear Representative Miletic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63676	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63677	Thank you, colleague Oreshkovic, for your replica. I am somehow an irreparable optimist in my habitat, but probably, to throw me in some swamp and to put out the dark, I would find someone good to look forward to, so I believe that Croatian people, if I can express myself in metaphorics, and I see that the prime minister also likes to speak metaphorical images, but I am still, something more polite, so I think that Croatian people must pass their 40 years of deserts, the Israelis have traveled so much towards the promised land. We have gained our freedom in the blood, in the victim of Croatian defenders, and it will become a promise for every Croatian citizen, not just for those chosen or similar. I believe, here, I truly believe, in the next few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63678	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63679	Thank you very much. Dear Miletic, you mentioned the situation in the region, the security cooperation in the region, I think it is extremely important, that we deepen it, that we increase the combat readiness of our Armed Forces, precisely because we are in a position where we are exposed to migration pressures, where there are, realistically, endanger stability in the region, look at what is happening in Kosovo, let's say, now look at what is happening in Montenegro, so in a thorny area where a possible new intersection of crises that can turn very quickly into global ones. It is extremely important to have ready defence forces and have allies who are also ready to join us and help us, as NATO allies should. So I see this Treaty as a step in this direction, strengthening our security stability, let's say, in the region.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63680	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63681	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic, for your replica. I'd say, well, this morning, getting ready to come here to this honorary home, to the assembly, to listen to, in the media, to rattling guns again in Republika Srpska, again down the team, I don't know, calling in someone, that they're going to split up, that they're going to, that they and I otherwise don't think they should be paranoid and I don't think they should be spreading panic and fear into anything, either in that situation. Croatia is still strong today, powerful, ready, I will return to '91, I say, there are real Croatian defenders here. So I know by my own, is it, by my father, and then by my friends who I've been hanging out with and who then went to defend my country, we weren't then, so I'd say, at the very beginning, we had nothing but a big heart, so we fought against a much more powerful enemy, and today we're one stable state, and I think it'll be all right with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63682	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63683	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor. I think that we can establish with certainty and confirm that the Balkans is a large blast area on the one hand, on the other hand, we must be aware that we are a major factor of security and peace in the Balkans, just us Croats and our country and our army, our victorious army. And unless we invest in that army, unless our army cooperates with the other armies, there will be problems. That is why it is necessary to support it, to enable our soldiers to be trained, to be sure of all actions they will take at any time. On the one hand, we must consider security, on the other hand, protection. We define this security now that we are at peace, when we have procedures, when we know who we are, what we are, when we train and prepare our army for something that shouldn't happen, and we know what protection is and when we apply it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63684	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63685	Thank you, fellow Pavic, here's the same thing on your replica. I think it's clear to everyone today who understands geostrategics and geopoliticals in some elemental way, and even at some elemental level, no one can survive alone today, so, especially one small country like us. So, we are a proud people and, and we are indeed a proud and brave people, but we cannot be an island for ourselves, and especially at the border as far as we have, so our border, our horseshoes, the shape of our country is very demanding and even in some defense or other endeavors, and that is why it is important that we cooperate, that we have strong partners, strong allies, and that our boys are eventually constantly educated. Which is what's going on. In Croatia, we need to be realistic and say that this is happening within the EU, within the NATO alliance, and therefore I said the MOST Club will support this agreement and that is, I have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63686	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63687	The President, colleagues of MPs and fellow MPs, in the introduction of the reasons for this law, is said to be the constitutional basis for its adoption, therefore for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Germany and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the territory of another State, Article 140(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The provision speaks of the role of the Croatian Parliament in confirming international agreements, and says the Croatian Parliament confirms international agreements requiring the adoption or amendment of laws, international military and political contracts and international contracts that financially bind the Republic of Croatia. This in itself would not be, it would not be a problem if Article 99 also did not exist. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is working together to shape and implement foreign policy. Not a single word of Article 99(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not have a proposal and an explanation for this law. And it's kind of an entrenched political state, almost a political custom through which we all go lightly as if all of us together in the Republic of Croatia are not concerned at all. The result is the ratio of the political forces on one hill and on the other hill and those famous Croatian mantras do not wave, so none of us advocates waves that we all knowingly ignore the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. counterpart Hajdukovic said well that the provisions of this article may be unclear, that there is no idea what co-creation of foreign policy should be at all. So how can we MPs in the Croatian Parliament expect our country to position itself in foreign policy, that we will know who we are, what we want to achieve if within ourselves, inside this home we cannot agree what co-creation of foreign policy should mean at all. I would also like to point out that in 2019, before the entry into the active political scene, I handed over to the then National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, so the Council in the previous meeting of Croatia called on the draft Anti-Corruption Strategy, which has never been discussed in this Croatian Assembly, in this strategy, one of the topics, one of the chapters was that not only this vague constitutional provision was made clear, but that from this Constitution everything that represents a stumbling block and undefined relations between the various branches of state authorities was cleared. And how closely this is linked to corruption can be seen in all segments of socio-political and legal life, and even in that section concerning the election of the Supreme Court president. In terms of why it is necessary to define and clarify what co-creation of foreign policy actually means, I said the following. Rules binding officials and politicians must be clear so that citizens can check whether the government behaves as it is expected. The government must have clear obligations and restrictions, and political culture must be built in society, which has a clear expectation of citizens and the public that officials of the prescribed rules must respect. It is a legal minimum without which justice cannot be achieved. And I appeal again, we always have a situation where this type of international contract comes on the agenda and none of us says that this content of an international contract has been defined exclusively by the government. In this particular case, it is a contract that is in some way even more in the hands of the president of the state because of the military, more than some other international agreements. And how can we expect parliamentary deputies to simply vote to confirm this international agreement if we cannot influence its content in any way? Moreover, we cannot, as Parliamentarians, honor the provision of an article. 81. The constitution that says we are obliged to oversee the government, we do not know by what criteria the defence minister designed these rules and directed them into the procedure. nor can we... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63688	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Villa Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63689	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Oreshkovic. You're a lawyer, you're a lawyer, can you please tell me what would actually be the reason that Germany is because we assume that it initiated this article. The 7th agreement to narrow this jurisdiction, is it possible that it narrows it down because it does not believe in the Croatian judiciary? I simply don't see why others would only narrow it down to crimes that caused the death of a person, as well as severe criminal acts against physical integrity and sexual self-determination, and for everything else there are no more criminal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63690	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63691	Thanks, buddy. I think that part here is about a technical provision that is more or less similar in all international agreements of this type and that's something that is more or less harmonised at the level of its rules within NATO member states. However, I am deeply convinced that between the internal quality and the reliability of the judiciary there is a fundamental difference between the justice of the Republic of Germany and our judiciary. This week, we had a lot of opportunities to discuss our judiciary in the context of a debate on the election of the Supreme Court president, and I think we're finally on our way to making at least a first step. It's important to understand that we can't expect better quality from the judiciary if one of them comes before. Better quality does not achieve politics alone. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63692	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed MP, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63693	Dear colleague Oreshkovic. I agree with you that these are very serious things especially because the signing of such international agreements stems from the very Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What would be interesting to hear, I don't know if you are familiar with this information, is the fact that as many of these contracts of the Republic of Croatia have signed with which countries and whether these contracts have been unified in certain parts of their respective parts or whether there is some criterion or some position of the Republic of Croatia which is uniformly applicable to all international contracts of this type and also in some parts when we talk about giving up legal jurisdiction in the territory of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about members of the armed forces of another country. I suppose they're not the same, but it would be good to hear, it can't be you hearing that answer and why they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63694	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63695	Thank you, colleague Voter. I have to say that this is one of the best questions asked in this meeting of HS, and it's best because my answer can only be, this is mere despair, not only that I don't know the answer to your question but I don't know who we can refer it to on a political and legal stage. And what it says about all of us MPs, what it says about the transparency of this government, what it says about the availability of that information that every citizen should have. Perhaps, I mean certainly not every citizen of ours is interested in the provisions of international agreements in the field of military and security, but I do know who the answer to these questions is, at least in theory should know. And I'm not sure if, for example, the president of the state would do the same thing out of his sleeve. to these questions of yours could give an answer. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63696	The esteemed representative Dark Taritash also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63697	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues, Oreshkovic. So in your presentations, when it comes to such things, you often point to constitutional categories, the Constitution that has defined and how often we forget it, and so do those who write such agreements, and indeed we who are in the debate when we discuss all this. I think it is always important to stress, to point out that these agreements also speak about the picture of the Republic, these agreements speak, and how important everything in them is to us, how important it is to us to have the international reputation of the Republic, because if we do not protect it and we do not take care of it hardly anyone else will. These agreements you and yourself know don't get any big attention in this assembly, they usually pass by until you get to the assembly already the debate is over, but I think they're important, I think they're important in the context of the consequences they can have, so please your attitude on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63698	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63699	Thank you, colleague. This is a fact, usually when international contracts are found on the agenda which HS should confirm, the response to the debate is generally the smallest. I find such a practice surprising, I think that we should give up on such practice, and all this expensive consequence is the fact as I said that political life has already gotten used to some established patterns of behavior. Recently, I think recently, a few months ago, here behind this pay phone was Andrej Plenkovic, whom I asked about the situation when we were represented by Janez Janša on the European Council. Namely, in Art. The 144th century 5 states that the Republic of Croatia in the Council and the European Council represent, in accordance with their constitutional powers, the Government and the President of the Republic of Croatia. So the government of the Republic of Janez Jansa is neither, nor one of these two categories, and regardless of what may be under some rules and rules relating to the work of the EU Council it does not comply with the provisions of the Constitution. [[Subject: Next replica of the respected representative Željko Pavić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63701	Dear MPs, here I am one of those lucky ones who's had a chance since the first days to co-operate with both the MORH and the OSRH and work for them and to be with them and to witness the development of these OSs. I am pleased that you have turned your attention in your legal proposals, or in a proposal for a change in some acts to improve some more things and to see who is responsible for what we might later and react if there are any problems. We're all aware that our army, that our OS, if they're going to be alone, is not enough. We ourselves are not enough, and if we want to be a factor in the EU community, we cannot look at it on the side. That is why this Agreement is also extremely important, but it must be accompanied by other acts, without it, unless all other acts are respected, then it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63702	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63703	Thanks, buddy. I don't know if you've noticed that when researching the public opinion on the degree of trust in certain institutions is done, our citizens usually say that they have a strong faith in HR, and the fact is that in their crisis situations the military has shown both readiness and training and are indeed infuriating that basic, this degree of trust and security. I think it is more unacceptable for us, who are the legislator, that we who are the constitutional creator, that we who are responsible for confirming international agreements, those issues concerning, among other things, and the way that our army will carry out its tasks, pay this little attention and I believe that the Croatian Parliament is saying what it expects of the president of the state. in international politics. [[Thank you. Dear Representative Katarina...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63704	... Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63705	Dear Representatives Oreskovic, here are some questions that you received from your colleague here and we praised her question we received on the Legislator's Committee, some answers to those questions, and then there was a question with which countries had similar agreements so that I could cut short the story, mostly with all of these biggest, let's say, Western European states, a similar agreement was signed and even I have no problem with having a bilateral agreement with this guy with a troubled article. 7th century 2, but that this article is a little clearer, and the answers we received point to this autocolonial approach where we are at all giving up all our tools real, even in this case. But what I'd like to ask you is, isn't it rare that we're getting a law that's already signed and that we can't have any effect on the content of this Agreement? That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63706	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63707	Thank you, colleague Peovic. We can talk about this problem. I don't even have a problem with that part. For me, it would be acceptable for HS to discuss a contract already defined, but, under, or agreement, provided that, in this process, the definition of certain provisions, as well as that Article, is in this process. The 7th century 2 made it clear what the government was really up for in this process through its defence minister, and what the president of the state was up for and how these two hills were, and the two political institutions that are according to them. Article 99(1) of the Constitution and in charge of defining these issues jointly, as they have taken place in relation to the other Contracting Party to this Agreement. If we can't do this, then we can't fulfill the basic task that the Croatian Parliament has, which is defined in Article. 81 Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63708	Thank you. Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63709	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, dear colleague Oreshkovic. You have very well noticed that this Agreement is extremely important for the Croatian public and the fact is that such agreements, as we would say, go so far below the radar and that our citizens are not even aware of what international cooperation is going on in various bilateral areas. Today it is an opportunity here to talk about a defence bilateral area, in which Germany is an extremely important partner to us. This was demonstrated by her arrivals and Chancellor Merkel in 2019 because it is extremely fruitful that defensive cooperation between our two countries. It is also important because we are the border and there is Schengen as the EU's largest border defence line and there are a number of projects where we co-operate together, from EU projects, NATO projects and to PESCO. How can I? do, better get to Croatian citizens [[Thank you. Dear representative...]] And explain to them all that international contracts commit? [[Intruder:... Oreshković.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63710	Thank you, colleague. So in this attempt to approach the role and importance of such international agreements, this is exactly the first step. So, we should not forget that we are on some other topics and on some other issues, here's a point we discussed last night for almost 12 hours. In those 12 hours our citizens had the opportunity to hear a handful of information, among other things, they could see how different political options reflect and breathe. However, these issues concerning, not only bilateral relations, here, in this case with us truly friendly and prone to the state, the country in which most of our citizens have evicted, almost not a word, and I believe that, apart from talking about financial impacts, security effects, how much they will actually through experience, through cooperation, through training, to advance our army. [[Thank you very much. Next individual...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63711	...the debate will be respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63712	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is interesting to see, I think this is also one of the historical moments in the Croatian Parliament that a lot of women are involved in discussions that, in which they have actually dominated most of our male colleagues so far. I am not an expert in the field of defence, but we in the Croatian Parliament are expected to read materials that come before us and ask all those questions that are not clear to us as laymen in each area. So, we have already been designated as the SDP Club that we have absolutely nothing against this final proposal of the law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, on the temporary stay of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the armed forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the state area of another country, i.e. the Croatian-German guest forces agreement. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany have good relations, including in the area of defence and that this agreement will definitely, i.e. the intensity of this agreement, be better, i.e. to continue this good cooperation between the two countries and in other areas of bilateral cooperation and joint efforts to maintain peace and stability in Europe. There is a clear interest between the Federal Republic of Germany and the European Union itself as to why the Republic of Croatia is absolutely important in these gauges. This Agreement will deal with various issues related to the entry, exit and temporary stay in the territory of the State of the other Party for the purposes of training, training of troops, land transit and humanitarian assistance activities, and search and rescue operations, thus ensuring the successful implementation of further bilateral defence cooperation. And there's nothing absolutely controversial about it. The same agreement also defines that, just a little while, page 7, which is the type and duration of stay, means that residents under this agreement are served for the purpose, as I said, of exercises, training, fees and transit up to 3,000 members of the armed forces of the impedimentary state and for a period of no more than 30 days, shall take place under the responsibility of the competent authorities of the receiving State. It is also clearly prescribed public security, in addition to public health, but then we come to this part in the very reasoning of the Law, which says, given the nature of the procedure to confirm international contracts and formally express the willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the amendments or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be made, this proposal for a law is proposed to be discussed and accepted in a single reading. So de facto this contract has been concluded, some obligations have been made, but some questions remain partially answered, here is what we heard from fellow Peović on the Committee on Law, but on the Defence Committee they remain, some questions remain, one of which is related to Article 7(2) where it is strictly said that the authorities of the receiving State will refrain from exercising such jurisdiction unless the important reasons regarding the exercise of the court function of the receiving State do not make it necessary to exercise such criminal jurisdiction. I only took one piece of this item 2. What does that really mean? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Croatia has denied the prosecution of foreign citizens of German Armed Forces and has raised the question of why this is the case. The same question has been raised on the Defence Committee, which is why these crimes are not taxed, which is why there are no criteria, and yet what remains unresponsive throughout this story, is the need, I also do not understand whether it is necessary to conclude such agreements among the equal members of the NATO alliance, and whether this is regulated at NATO level, if the answer is that we do not need, then the key question, which are actually the criteria, which is the position of the Republic of Croatia in relation to all the countries with which these types of international agreements are signed and whether they are in position to sign these agreements are uniform positions, as said counterparts Dalia Oreshkovic between two hills. If we do not get an answer to such a question, we may get the impression that we do not have clearly established criteria when signing such agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63713	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63714	Thank you. Dear fellow Glasovac, you have well noticed that it is very important to have good bilateral cooperation in a defensive way. It builds our common relations with a friendly country, but apart from bilateral we also have excellent cooperation in other fields, from culture, science, etc. We will almost mark 30 years of these bilateral relations at the beginning of 22nd because we know that Germany was at the beginning a great partner of Croatia in its independence. What I want to ask you is, it's been 30 years. In those 30 years, Croatia has grown into a respectable country, a country that has built a strong army, which has come out of the defence war, which has entered NATO, which has become a member of the European Union, which is an important factor for stability and security in Southeast Europe and which is actually its longest borders defending the European Union, so I ask you whether these changes that have just taken place in the territory of Germany can affect our future relations, we know that Chancellor Mercel is leaving, and Olaf Scholz is coming and that this will all be reflected in the area of Kosovo and Montenegro as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63715	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63716	In principle, I don't think it will change the direction that Europe will go in this international, or Germany, in this international way, if we take into account that even so far there has actually not been a classical one, I will say so in terms of changing the authorities, but we know that it worked in a large coalition where there was one quite for many, perhaps controversial policy, when we talk about the issue of migrants, and that's where Croatia had challenges that it had to face in 2014, and we will face this issue further. It is clear that our borders are important in the future because they will be borders and official borders in the declaration of Schengen, it will be an important limit for survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63717	Thank you very much, the next replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63718	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Glasovac, in your presentation, you have found that the agreement between the two friendly countries, however, when the explanation of the proposal for a military co-operation agreement between the two countries comes down to 5 articles, none of which explain any of the content proposals presented in the Agreement, then it is clear that there are no, as you yourself have set out the criteria that we are running in establishing cooperation with another country or as we say in this debate today, the criteria that we formalise only existing cooperation. You also pointed out Article 7(2) in which Croatia is refusing to prosecute foreign citizens of the armed forces for which we have no answer today for which reason. What I am interested in, based on everything I have just said and on the basis of what you have read in the Agreement, can we really be sure that this Agreement protects the interest of the Republic of Croatia, especially when we see in one article that this Agreement can be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63719	Thank you very much. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63720	No, it can't change. Even at this stage, more, now that we have before us parliamentary representatives, you have no possibility of any amendment or intervention to the content of the Agreement itself. And I hope that the interests of the Republic of Croatia in each respect of this Agreement are protected and that this Agreement will contribute to better mutual cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany. But I would like to ask the motions at this time, if no individual members of the Defence Committee have received this answer, to answer the question whether the provision in Article 7(2) of the Rules of Procedure Croatia has waived the prosecution of foreign citizens of German Armed Forces, the second, why these offences are not taxingly listed in the article, i.e. whether there are any criteria at all. The answer to the Committee was that it was regulated through a legal framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63721	Thank you very much, the next individual debate will be respected representatives of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63722	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have today in the debate agreement that was signed. He was signed in Zagreb, on 16 June 2021, by the Republic of Croatia, signed by Minister Mario Banozic, and sees wonders by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany signed him by an extraordinary authorised ambassador. It seems to me that it would always be good for such agreements to be signed by al-mari, the minister of defence, the defence minister, but what is there is, we have what we have. These agreements, otherwise, go under the light of the stage in our debate, argues relatively simply, we understand them easily, and I'm afraid we don't realize until the end and all that's in them. There are two articles that were extremely important to me, and it seems to me that you should give an emphasis on them, so everyone from some aspect of themselves. One article is the 6th one that talks about public health. We had yesterday, I'd say all day, discussed one topic, and that was Covid-19, the consequences that have been over the past three months, and how there's a legal obligation we'll discuss again. The provision of Article 6 also states that the competent authorities of the receiving State are implementing measures relating to the Law on Protection against Infections, so it is now further talking about the protection of the plant and animal world, so it is quite detailed and quite clear what needs to be done and it is always interesting perhaps to say what experience we have so far. So we live and the whole lives under the influence of Covida-19 in the past years and a half are already going well, so this is also one agreement and people who, therefore, are going to be involved in it, I think they have to be protected maximumly in this context. But there is another topic that is particularly important to me, and I always take a special look at it, which is your topic of environmental protection. So the time has come when more of this chapter called environmental protection should not be called environmental protection, but should be called actually impact, i.e. the fight against climate change. So everything there, otherwise in other regulations and other laws where it was a topic of environmental protection, has changed, the impact of climate change, or the fight against climate change. So when you look at some kind of military action that's going to be in the area of some country and you think right now, it's going to take, I don't know, one day, two days, three days, and then somebody's going to go somewhere and now compared to global, general climate change, glaciers and everything else, so don't tell me that's got an impact. Everything has an impact. And everything has an impact and everything has its consequences. Now, just remember the pictures we had when the NATO military exercises were set, where they take place? They take place in areas that are most protected from the aspect of environmental protection and nature protection, because there is no place near the settlement, so there can be no impact on the settlement, so there are no things like this, and that is the aspect that is always convenient for such exercises, but the exercises are done, the ones that lead them take a nice picture, we have on television diaries, every diary has a contribution of 3-4 minutes, who was, which was, what did you have all those pictures and gone, and the space remains not as it was before. The space stays partially really devastated. But apart from the space that's partially devastated, it's extremely important that when these exercises take place and when they're being taken care of at all, so... which is used whether the aspect of protection or the fight against climate change is adequate, whether everything is managed by the account and is an emphasis that should be taken into account among other things. [[You don't understand.]] What I want to say to the Resoring Ministry, give it to the next agreement, and I'm sure you'll have some kind of consent on the other hand that this chapter is no longer called environmental protection. It is something that more in the nomenclature of all the regulations of the European Union no longer... That's the way. [[You don't understand.]] It's your fight against climate change. So the relationship to climate change and that's how everyone defines it. The question is the moment when environmental impact assessments will also turn into ways to fight or measures to mitigate climate change. So that would be much better. This is an impact on climate change and measures to mitigate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63723	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63724	Thank you, Chairman. You have touched several important topics in your presentation that we would not normally link to this type of agreement against environmental protection, health protection and beyond. However, I think the most important part is the part that you pointed out, which is an unusual situation in relation to the parity of the parties in the part of the signatories of this Agreement. I consider the Republic of Germany one of the very pedantic, precise, very responsible and thoughtful states. Unfortunately, our country isn't like that. Usually this parity, which means if the minister signs on the one hand, it should be a minister or someone who deals with the same area. It wasn't like that here. I think the Republic of Germany is highly inclined to us, but it is obvious here that the Republic of Croatia does not respect itself, perhaps not respecting us either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63725	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash. Thank you very much. Dear MPs, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63726	Thank you very much. So, fellow Oreshkovic, when we have these agreements, then I'm absolutely sure we should look at all aspects and all the parts of these agreements. So we have an agreement after he is, we get him at confirmation at the Croatian Parliament and you know for yourself that when we get the agenda and then we have agreements to say then, we ask each other, and we agree naturally on a club related to the vote, and then when the agreements are at stake then we all say okay, okay that's just it's just fine, that's all good. But there's a series of things that are extremely important in these agreements, and I'm kind of absolutely sure there's this opening part. So if the minister of one country in this case was the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia signed on our part then there should be a parity for the Minister of Defence to sign on the other. So what's the problem now that they find each other when they answer each other? In this way, the form is actually satisfied, not content.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63727	Thank you. Representative Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63728	Thank you very much. My colleagues Mrak Taritas I also agree with you and my colleague Oreshković and all those who spoke about standards of conduct in foreign policy or in general in politics, therefore, some things related to protocol. This is simply unacceptable. It's absolutely unacceptable, and Germany didn't do it by accident as a state. I think it is humiliating for Croatia, and we will be against this agreement not because we are against the agreement as such, but against the way the agreement is signed. A question specifically for you and your club, will you vote for such an agreement or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63729	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63730	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start at the end and get to the beginning. We're at a club agreeing and we'll agree on this, and we have a final on behalf of the club, and then the club's position will be clearly defined. So our foreign policy is a special topic. A special topic is the way it is, a special topic is you know the foreign policy of a country you always recognize through two people. You recognize it through the Prime Minister and you recognize it at the Foreign Minister's office. So our prime minister likes to brag to his Europeans, so the way he is and then you have two faces like those masks we have. One person who points to the European Union, and another person who shows when there is and that other person we had the opportunity to see yesterday in his public appearance or in the press he had for journalists where he was bahat, where he insulted not only journalists, insulted who he thought of at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63731	Comrade Dark Tarritash, let's stick to the subject please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63732	Well, the topic is about agreement and foreign policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63733	With the agreement, yes. Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63734	I think you have very well identified certain things in the agreement itself, and I would like to back that up with the fact here's why we're signing an agreement like this when, say, at the 2nd month of this year, an important military exercise was held no less than in one Germany, and the exercise was therefore for the Russian troops to enter European soil. Now listen to what countries were present. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Italy, Kosovo, Lithuania, Northern Macedonia, Poland, Romania and Slovenia. Croatia is nowhere, there is nowhere to go, and look at these exercises are also carried out by Russian breakthroughs on the ground. Look what's going on in Kosovo. Let's look at what's going on in Montenegro, and we're not called for such an exercise, and on the other hand it's signed by some kind of formal contract that doesn't actually make any sense on the ground. Here, please comment because I saw that you had a very good I.D. on the signature that it wasn't just a couple.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63735	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63736	Thank you very much. So these kind of agreements certainly go on and when we go and when I'm not going to say it somehow don't use any ugly word, but we see all aspects of it. They open up and we see what the problems are. Yes, in February there was a military exercise and Croatia was gone. What I really know when you're reading, then some red lights go off and you see something's wrong somewhere, and I was wondering, why didn't the German Defence Minister sign it? They weren't in the election, so they weren't that there were any choices or any extraordinary circumstances, that's all right with me, but you got a light on here why not. And we really live, you know, there's that saying, that God gave us to live in interesting times. This experience that we had with Afghanistan, where all the countries of liberal democracy that took part in sending their soldiers, proved to be fatal to the importance of such agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63737	Thank you, next replica of the respected representative Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63738	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash. I highly appreciate your contribution as Ministers of Space Conservation, primarily the space of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I am very pleased that you have noticed in this not-so-expanded agreement and segment concerning, as the Agreement states, and what you have pointed out about the issue of environmental protection in the context of activities carried out in the receiving country, as regards the transport of motor vehicles of the armed forces of the country of shale, as well as the use of airports on the ground of the host country. I believe that since this Agreement has been agreed on for several years on both sides, it is extremely important to discuss these natural resources and the protection of space, because we know that Croatian territory is very attractive because of a certain lack of population, for different exercises, filmmaking and other things, and it is important that we also establish the protection of space by means of an international agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63739	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63740	Thank you very much. So, as I pointed out in my individual debate, I really do have a great deal of importance and it's important to me as parliamentary representatives, but as well as to someone who is a space planner, especially this chapter that is related, here is talking about environmental protection, and what would be much better, and that is the acceptability of all activities in general regarding climate change. Climate change is a fact, all the activities you do in space have an impact on that, especially certain activities that are from the military aspect. We're like a state, it's from an opportunity to the last indicators, and when you take somewhere between 6% and 7% built, so, built, made by buildings, by roads and everything else. This rest is the construction part. We have about 50% of the forest and, therefore, what is under the woods, and always the attractiveness of such events by the sea, especially on our islands, whose task is to protect us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63741	Thank you. The following is a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63742	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the territory of another country. This Agreement shall be governed by, or institutionalised, cooperation with, the friendly Republic of Germany as we already have. This Agreement regulates the type and extent and duration of stay, conditions of stay, conditions of entry, exit and stay, public security and order, public health, criminal jurisdiction and measures of coercion, telecommunications, environmental protection, transport of vehicles of the SIRENE States, use of the receiving State airport and so on, and so on, and I am talking about issues relating to the cooperation of the two countries with regard to military and armed forces. And it's always good to formalize the co-operation of the two sides. And this agreement is exactly what it represents. The formalisation of co-operation between the two sides, the institutionalisation of cooperation that already exists, but that formalisation must be mutually beneficial. And the protection of all the participants of this Agreement. It is also necessary to establish an equal position in relation to friendly states, an equal position, an equal position in both sides. This is a matter of defence, or military security, and security stems from the military's readiness of the state. However, this is about two military, armed, security-complete different countries, and we cannot ignore the fact that it is safe in any respect, if we speak geographically but if we also talk about the capacities it has, Croatia is far more vulnerable than Germany and in this context we must also look at this Agreement. It is good that our defence forces and the basis of this Agreement are educated, strengthened, strengthened cooperation with organised and strong partners, but it is important that such cooperation be established by clear and unequivocal criteria of cooperation. The criteria for the creation of a proposal for this Agreement are not visible anywhere. Are there uniform criteria for international agreements of this type? Especially when it comes to the jurisdiction of the jurisdiction of a particular state, especially when it comes to an agreement in the field of military and security. Article 15 provides that this Agreement may be amended and complemented at any time by mutual written consent of the Parties. And that may be the answer to the question why there are no criteria that the government, transparently, leads to the conclusion of such agreements. But this is not transparency and does not contribute to the degree of confidence that even when we co-operate with a friendly, I stress the friendly state's best interest in our country, especially when it comes to an economic, military and security superior state than Croatia. In this context, it is important to point out once again, Article 7(2), which has been mentioned so many times, which says that Croatia is refusing to prosecute foreign citizens, members of the armed forces for which we do not have an answer today, a clear answer for which it is so. What is the reason for such agreements among the equal members of the NATO alliance? Why isn't that regulated at the Alliance level? Obviously not all of them are equal, so it would be interesting to see with which countries Croatia has such international agreements which, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, cannot generally be changed and complemented at this stage of the procedure. We welcome the agreement with the Republic of Germany. We welcome the institutionalisation and formalisation of excellent cooperation with the Republic of Germany. However, when making such agreements, when making such proposals, which we must vote on tomorrow, or today, we must ask that clear criteria be established to ensure that both on such occasions and when it comes to the friendly other side, we are primarily guided by the interests of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63743	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63744	Dear Representative Ahmetovic, first of all, thank you for this deep understanding and how you presented it. What interests me is, we formally sign what you say is an agreement. But we're not really in the field. Here's an example. France and Greece recently signed a military agreement. There was another shipment, something like that with the rafts. However, this agreement really makes sense. They really bonded with each other. You see, a few months ago in Germany, I'm just saying this one military exercise around Russia and about their taking over that peninsula there was one call to all of Europe, so it's a potential danger that can be seen in countries that are neighbouring to us where we don't have any kind of strategy ourselves, except that our Prime Minister is speaking Ukrainian sentences that can have a great implications for neighbouring countries. Well, I'm quite interested in your view.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63745	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63746	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Troscott. As I pointed out, and in my debate, it is good to institutionalise and formalise any cooperation with any state we have. However, when it comes to the friendly state, it is extremely important to know that we have always been guided exclusively by the interests of our own country, and it is good for Croatia to cooperate with superior countries, it is good to cooperate with Germany, it is good to have someone to learn from, from whom to educate, with whom to cooperate, to strengthen cooperation with the country with which we have an interest to cooperate economically, but of course on such occasions. What remains unclear is whether we have always always taken our own interests when we have made other agreements with other countries, whether we have always been guided by interests when we entered into various alliances. As an inferior state, we must look out for more than those superiors when we engage with anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63747	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63748	Here is my colleague Ahmetovic, I am very pleased that you, unlike some of your political orientations, are reading this law skeptically, and I am pleased to say that I caught my criticism of Article 7(2) which seems to me that it would have passed under the radar if it hadn't been warned, because it is about an agreement that has already been signed and that comes to us only for verification of what we should always warn about. But why I pointed out the really autocolonial way in which such a law is passed is a little wider, which is that such practices appear in much larger, water in much larger proportions and much bigger problems when we, among other things, have cited this example, have assumed the obligation to reach 2% of the defence GDP by the end of 2024 that the practical debate has not been carried out. This is just how other things happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63749	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63750	Thank you very much. I am in my debate, but I think that the other colleagues and colleagues, in particular, colleague Glasovac, highlighted the problem of Article 7(2). However, what I must point out first and foremost in favour of transparency, transparency in determining cooperation or any other area relating to the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Transparency in the conclusion of this Agreement has not been reached and has not been achieved because there are no visible and clear criteria to which this and any other agreement are concluded. What comforts me is that the agreement contains Article 15, which states that this Agreement can be amended, of course, with the agreement of both parties and with written consent. From this point on, we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to look at and adopt in any case one-signal criteria for the conclusion of such agreements, always leading to the interests of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63751	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63752	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MP Ahmetovic, we agree that the great, powerful Germany can be our role model in a lot of things, first of all let's not forget that just at the end of the '70s they started with green policies. I wonder how much we're not told about this Agreement and it doesn't say clearly inside. What do you think the possibilities are that maybe their green parties are very strict on what's going on on that Grafenvor military range of theirs? Is it possible to say some things that they're not allowed to do here at our own Slunj polygon? Some things they wouldn't allow, maybe some combat poison exercises, you don't know what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63753	Representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63754	Dear colleague Matula, I agree with you. It would not be the first time that the economically superior countries do the things that are banned in their country, in their territory, execute and implement in those countries that are more economically inferior. When I say economically then, of course, I mean politically. There is also the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but also of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to stand in defense of our integrity, to stand in the defense of our country, and not to allow our partner, even though it is because of his insatiable supremacy over our country that is not in the interest of our country, and for this reason I have just concentrated my debate on the need to always look at the interests of our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia and our country, and even when it comes to the friendly state with which we sign cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63755	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63756	Dear colleague Ahmetovic. Something you said that this contract can be changed under certain conditions, yes, but here in the Croatian Parliament today we are discussing, however, our influence and committees themselves as working bodies and us as parliamentary representatives on the content of the international agreement itself, the contract, however you will, is none, minor, but if these issues that have opened up contribute to a better quality eventually or to establishing some uniform criteria for future such agreements, then we have done something. However, it is as it is, it is immutable, or it is only variable if both states decide it equally, just as we have the situation, for example, other areas, are not defences but Vatican contracts. We know what these contracts have prescribed, a number of things that we as a state cannot go out of and out of at this time, only if they agree to both sides under specific conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63757	Thank you. Representative Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63758	Just as you pointed out, what is left for us is to hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will at least try once to defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia, however it seemed or did not seem opportunised when it comes to partners from the European Union. And I particularly point out that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenkovic likes to praise himself with his good position and power, political power within the European Union and colleagues from the European Commission, so here I hope that this power will finally be presented, just when it is necessary, and that even in the context of the article that is controversial here, which is Article 7 of the Prime Minister's power, this prime minister's reputation will manifest itself in the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia and even when it comes to friendly countries, with the country, in this case, the Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63759	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the finals. First, the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63760	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. I'm really sorry that I spent all my replicas, so I couldn't replicate my colleague Ahmetovic. She touched the intransparentity of this contract, and she was slightly entrenched by the Prime Minister, or the Government, of course, quite justifiably. The assessment of the situation and the objective of the adoption of this law states, among other things, that the current cooperation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany has been achieved through official visits and working meetings of their representatives, the exchange of experiences of experts in areas of common interest, participation in courses, seminars and conferences, participation in joint exercises and training, and participation in peace support operations and other activities abroad. I am pleased that there is good and quality cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Germany in the area of the military, defence and security, but what is a little bit even annoying here is that in every other word the government, the government, the defence minister, the defence minister, the defence minister is mentioned. If someone asked me how you would like to see the Republic of Croatia, what would you like it to be, they would like to show first of all that they respect themselves. I do not believe that anyone else can respect us unless we show this respect to ourselves, and that respect does not exist if we are so stubborn, so persistent, so persistent in disobeying and violating the provisions of our own constitution. If indeed that provision that says foreign policy is co-creation makes no sense, if it really is not necessary for, among other things, such visits to be made about the objectives of exchange of experiences and cooperation, to be agreed by the President of the State and Government, let's at least have so much responsibility for Croatian citizens and say that we will delete this provision and remove it from the Croatian Constitution. Because ignoring this provision shows that we are unable to invoke individual branches of state government, not to comply with those obligations and restrictions defined by the Constitution, so I don't know how such a state which has no clear rules of obligations and responsibilities for certain branches of state authorities can expect citizens to abide by those obligations and restrictions that apply to them. If we want a country of order, as announced in its programme and action plan of the future President of the Supreme Court, these rules primarily require those who act as state authorities to abide by this order, and it is our obligation, our parliamentary representatives to check whether they adhere to this rule, the order of other political holders of other branches of state authorities. And if we're not already able to force that order to be respected, then let's at least change the rules so they don't become a lazier and dead state on paper, as unfortunately the dead state on paper is an area of many other rights and freedoms of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63761	The next one will speak finally on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front, the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63762	Here, I'll say that some MPs here have said that this is a contract between friends, that they are very happy that such an agreement is being signed, that the Secretary of State on our Legislative Committee has admitted that there are some shortcomings in this Agreement, but hey, we signed an agreement with great Germany, and we should be very grateful about that. And there is no possibility that the Croatian Parliament, MPs in the Croatian Parliament, may change some points, some articles of this Agreement because the agreement has already been signed. I don't need to give examples of historical states in these areas that Germany has more respect for than our country. But I have singled it out only because Article 7(2) means I will not repeat it where Croatia has denied responsibility for the prosecution of German soldiers and on the other hand there is the same practice. I listed this article only to warn you of a symptom of a much wider problem, which is that we sign a series of other agreements in this way and that there is absolutely no reciprocity and that the already served requirements that we then achieve are coming to us. One of them is much more serious and will have much greater consequences than this Article 7(2) of this Agreement, and that is the agreement, under quotes, that by the end of 2024 we will have to allocate more than 2% or 2% of GDP for defence. At the moment when we have one of the highest inflations in history, it means inflation in terms of the one from 2013, when before that inflation, no one could say that we are in a good situation because 1/3 of people live in poverty, when 7% of the population had no heat nor before the price of heating increased and before we find ourselves in the situation of energy poverty, we colleagues and colleagues decided to buy Rafael planes for 33 million euros, a pardon of 999 million euros that we would be paying on a regular basis, and I asked the question of the Minister of Defence when these rural payments would come, in which meals we will pay for it. The minister didn't answer me. He said the contract is now being signed and concluded between Croatia and France. So if this contract is now being concluded, which will define the payment of the meal in which we will pay 999 million euros for allegedly famous Rafael planes, shouldn't we be getting information here in the Parliament about how this payment will go so that it doesn't happen again, as with this Agreement, that we only get to sign what's already agreed on? And shouldn't we now close down and prevent all big payments to help people in Croatia who don't have any heat? A few means a measure should be launched. We should talk about inflation here as a primary topic. A special session of the Assembly should also be held on this matter, organised. But no, we're gonna get some kind of agreement here that's already signed. We will talk about how wonderful and wonderful our German-Croatian friendship is, as it is for friends in the NATO alliance, and we will not talk about inflation. So to avoid this situation, although I'm afraid we don't have too many tools to prevent it, I warn you that inflation and the problem with the importance of rising heating prices, the increase in energy prices, the rise in basic food prices that more and more people have problems buying so basic food supplies can be addressed by various measures. But here it is, our prime minister had a meeting with the unions. They came up with these talks with the conclusion that everything is fine, that inflation is simply monitored and that nothing important should be done or done about it, except that the minimum wage will be raised. My colleagues and colleagues, we are in October when a minimum wage has to be raised by law. And there is no way not to raise the minimum wage in October, and that is the only thing Minister Aladrovic has promised to do. So here I appeal, let's prevent this round-the-clock payment from coming at least during this period where we have such inflation and this kind of poverty problem in Croatia and let's postpone it for some other periods.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63763	Thank you very much. A little one-on-one correction if you'll excuse me. The planes are Rafael, and Rafael is the Archangel. But good. We go to the final on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, we mention a lot of this procurement of fighter planes, but here you are correcting me if I'm wrong. So we've decided which fighter planes we want to get. We've decided on a price. But the terms and no contract has yet been signed. So, while we're not black on white, maybe it's a little bit of a waste to discuss the terms and conditions, the manner in which the payment is paid, etc. Although I agree that we have really many important topics for Croatian citizens, above all, and that is inflation, and the collection of foods, etc., etc. which are actually the result of global developments in the market. But this would certainly be given on other topics and on topics of agriculture and food production that are not today a topic. Well, then I don't want to talk about it today, but since we're already on the subject of not being worried about it. On the other hand, I'm going to look back at this Agreement one more time. I'm saying, I think he's good because he formalizes an already practically existing condition. We changes with the Federal Republic of Germany already have bilateral military and each other, but also military or defence. I also believe that close cooperation with our allies within the NATO alliance in which Germany is involved will also contribute to our protection and stability in the region, but also to our security. First of all, because we live as I said in a region that is also exposed to migrant pressures, which, unfortunately, is rapidly destabilising again. I say you see what's going on in Kosovo. There's always tension in the last month, maybe a little more. We also saw in Montenegro how some called it a dessert on Cetinje. So this is all a contribution to destabilization in the region, which Croatia is very sensitive to for a number of reasons. But also our defensive and security threat is clear. If there's any destabilisation in the region, someone don't give God of war we'll definitely feel the same way. Therefore, strengthening our defence and security capacities is certainly in our interest, especially at this time of absence, I say when there is a working and destabilising impact in the region. On the other hand, we are already working together with the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany on a series of multilateral and bilateral frameworks from the PESK, from NATO and, of course, on our bilateral exchanges, we are often on foreign missions under the command or leadership of the armed forces of the Federal Republic of Germany. Therefore, I think that close cooperation is only in interest. The best example is NATO's mission to Lithuania, where Croatian forces are under command, or led by German armed forces. So even if I were to cut short, now I'm approaching the end, this Treaty will just formalize some things during our bilateral exchanges. I see it as something good, as a step in the right direction if there are some more misunderstandings in the implementation that I believe will be removed first and foremost by conversation. But if the contract is shown, then it can be changed as is said in a written manner on the one hand and if the other side agrees. We also had some criticisms that I believe were founded because of our bad experiences during the UMPROFOR mission, so with some unresolved issues of criminal persecution. But as I said between friends and allies, such things are removed by agreement, by conversation. In addition, the armed forces, but also the state itself, or the Federal Republic of Germany, are too serious to afford such gaffes, failures and not criminal persecution, or the protection of those who apparently violate laws not only in the receiving country, but also in the sending country. Finally, the Social Democrats Club will support this Treaty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63765	Now the final secretary of state, the esteemed Zdravko Jakob. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63766	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. I came here for a pay phone first of all to thank you for the debate because we are going to try to implement all of this here. But first of all, let me thank Parliamentarian Vidovic, Hajdukovic, Bauku and Miletic for making my job easier because you have answered practically all the questions that have been raised here. I will only conclude that we have very good bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and Germany and that this is essentially just a continuation and development of this cooperation, but above all on an equal basis. All that applies to members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is also valid for members of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany. We've been working together so far at the level of practice, we've been involved in a lot of exercises. I'd also like to remind myself of the implementation of Pancer 2000's armed system which certainly raised our level of ability. It's something we did together. Cooperation here is mentioned by the European... group, Pesco, training, education, a lot of these areas and I really believe that it will help us. Because with a lot of such activities, you have to develop details, and when there is such an agreement with a friendly country, it is far easier, faster, and safer to do it. So it will benefit the Ministry of Defence as well as direct participants in field activities. I would also like to say that it is respected both by law and by the Constitution and that it includes the previous opinion of the President of the Republic of Croatia in writing. And perhaps, in the end, I would also like to say that we are always responsible for our forces wherever they are, whether they were in Croatia, specifically in Germany regarding this Agreement, in the forces of the European Union, NATO mission or mission under the flag of the United Nations. No one can free us of these responsibilities and be sure we didn't run away in 91, we won't run away from responsibilities today, and we'll start learning from everyone we can learn from. And today we are specifically talking about a friendly country from which we can learn something. And I am really happy that we have come to this stage to discuss today here in the Parliament the confirmation of the Agreement between the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63767	We have three replicas. He's the first respected representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63768	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State Jacob, I remind you of the unforgivable failures of military hierarchy and the Military Intelligence and Security Agency for the tragic deaths of six of our soldiers and soldiers in less than a month. It's usually a number that's characteristic in a year, maybe two. Most deaths are allegedly drug-related suicides. What if our soldiers are caught in the supply of cocaine in Germany? Who will judge me or the German court?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63769	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63770	I'm going to try to answer you in a way that what you said here is not true, that the Ministry of Defense in its statements denied it. But since this isn't even the point of today's agenda, it wouldn't go into detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63771	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63772	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State just because there were some misunderstandings in the debate, perhaps you should just explain to us what practice it is, since it is not clearly regulated in this contract, but, for example, if a Croatian soldier commits a criminal offence on German territory, does it correspond to German courts, Croatian? Who processes, etc. And vice versa if the German soldier did it on Croatian territory? Just because there was an observation that the provision in the contract was unclear, so perhaps since there are already such cases I believe that it is regulated in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63773	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63774	Thank you very much for saying the word practice three times. And this Agreement is essentially a practice that is common in making such agreements. That is why it stands for the element that crimes of great importance affecting the security of the receiving State, which determines what crimes affecting the security of the state and which will be processed or which will not be processed. So we are talking about a mutual agreement on an equal footing, but the recipient decides what is important to her both Croatia and Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63775	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63776	My dear secretary, this is more notes, suggestions, suggestions. Let us never forget that we are the only member of the European Union who has a winning army and that is an army that everyone can learn from. Here, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63777	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63778	Make sure I don't forget because I'm a member of that winning army.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63779	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And now we're going to have a short break until 12:00 when we have a vote. It's 11:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-15-0.u63780	Final proposal of the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the state area of another country (Croatia-German guest forces agreement), second reading, P.Z. No. 169. The applicant is the Government, and the debate is concluded and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 119 MPs and MPs voted, 117 for, 2 were against, so the Act on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the temporary stay of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Germany and the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Germany in the territory of another country (Croatia-Germany guesting forces agreement) was passed. Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2019. The applicant shall be an electronic media agency. This item of the agenda will be voted in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2019 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 118 deputies and MPs voted, 76 for, 5 abstentions, 37 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the home body.
