ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u57798	The Croatian Institute of Public Health confirmed that only 1892 people have been re-infected since the start of the pandemic, which is 0.54% of patients. They add even if it were such a small number of re-infections that previously ill people simply did not show in the reports because they would be individual cases. Then why don't you extend Covid's confirmation for the sick? Why are they being pressured to vaccinate? Why didn't Minister Berosch answer me the same question I asked again in the assembly? And not only that question, but also a number of other parliamentary issues that I'm still waiting for the ministers to answer, and then you'll be wondering why the citizens don't believe you. To what end have these data so far been hidden from parliamentary representatives and the Croatian public? Can't I not ask you what else you're hiding from us? And now that you've finally publicly published this data, will you adjust your recommendations and stop pressing at least on the sick to be vaccinated? And that the ministers are still waiting for information as to how many people who have been reinfected needed hospitalization and how many have passed away. Why don't we have that information? We ask you to respect this question regarding almost half a million of our citizens who have already been over this disease, and close to 200,000 are those to whom it has expired or the possibility of Covid confirming and using it will already expire. In this crisis which is serious and health system which is currently facing great pressure should indeed be tested all for free and preferably uninvasive. We ask you to be guided by reason and facts, not by hidden political agendas, at least if your goal is to get out of this crisis with as many living people as possible. The second thing I'm going to look back on is how the idea of Covid's confirmation failed even before it was introduced. I gave a lecture to my students the other day, and I immediately told my colleagues and colleagues, and I don't know if we'll see each other in a week, because the key question is Covid's confirmation that shows the system's non-adjustment to their ability to use what with the students. If we are going to do what is currently announced that we teachers will be able to test ourselves free of charge on the cost of the employer, and students who should be privileged who are in an invisible financial situation will not have the same right, so how can we discriminate on them in this way. On the other hand, if we pay them for the test, how will we enable them to see to it that these coins are refunded and that we put other citizens of the Republic of Croatia in an uninvited position, for example. why an unvaccinated 21-year-old caterer or an unemployed citizen of the Republic of Croatia who lives on the edge of poverty and who has received an excessive electricity bill could not enter HEP because he cannot afford a test, and one student will have access to everything because the state paid him for it. None of the solutions are good because they're certainly going to discriminate on someone. And what happened already? Here's how colleges handled it. We've been contacted by veteran students. They're told that since the 15th class goes with Covid's certificates, the college hasn't gone into contact with the payment, 57% just a little more than half of it has been vaccinated. This was reported to them 6 days before, so the others are denied the right to attend colleges that they paid for and have no possibility of following the online course. What did my Faculty of Philosophy do? They announced mandatory controls, and they didn't deliver behavioral parameters. So that not all students and employees come into an awkward situation, we are already going online for the next two weeks. Since we're going to have reaccredited the question of who or what can be recredited, maybe our computers. This is not just a question of the rights of students in relation to the rights of all other citizens or discrimination that threatens us because of the partial introduction of Covid certificate, violation of Article 14. A constitution that says that everyone before the law is equal. This concerns all citizens because the real problem that shows us is that the system has not been prepared, and it should have been, that the measures are being introduced in a systematic and partial manner, that it will not save us, that the data is being kept secret when we talk about the sick and that again when we talk about these overrecommendations are not made in relation to the facts but obviously in relation to someone's political interests. Whose question remains an open question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u57859	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block, and the honourable representative Sandra Bencic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u57860	Thank you. I will talk today about a case that has been plagued for more than 10 years by residents of the Long War, but also by the surrounding areas, which is the case concerning the restoration of pherochroms, a pherochrom dump site in the area of the former factory, which is, meanwhile, left to a company called "The Cove Project" and where the whole story actually begins in 2007. where environmental impact assessment claims that the recovery of the terrain is not necessary. 2009 "The Bay Project," so the company actually ordered a rehabilitation program and instead of resuscitating what was done all that time was that it was actually exploited just, just a dump and it turned out that over the years, a minimum of 1,600 000 tonnes of cost had been exploited, and the value of the pherochrom in it was estimated at a minimum of $1 million. Then, the project orders works through the sister company Colligo to start exploiting and extracting metal without a building permit, without concession to work on maritime goods, without consent to work on state land. Also, in 2011, Minister Bačić, the head of the municipality along with the citizens, urges that these works be stopped, however, of course nothing happens. The inspection found at some point that works were done without a building permit and that they were doing environmental damage and estimated that all valuable metal had already been exported and worth between 55m and 65m euros. After that, the sister company Colligo, through which all this was done, goes into bankruptcy and remains a debt of 42 million kuna. In 2015, the surprising ministry once again approves the new rehabilitation program, again the same company project bays and gives them a new 4 years to resuscitate. It also asks them to pay for the damage caused by the exploitation itself. However, of course, they are not too willing to pay off the damage and demand a postponement of the payment, as well as a postponement of the recovery. Of course, by 2019, when that deadline expired, absolutely nothing was done. The obligation to resuscitate the law passed to the Republic of Croatia, however, this year again opens and reacts to the issue of settlement with the same company, after the conclusion of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2017, which then passed, of course, to negotiations or the conclusion of the settlement, passed on to the JDO in Split. And what does the Republic of Croatia require of them? It's asking for 25 million kuna, which is nothing compared to what was done and what got out of exploitation, with if it pays those 25 million fines, we'll sell them the rest of the land to build a tourist settlement there. So after decades of non-sanitisation, decades of exploitation, the withdrawal of tens of millions of euros and irreparable damage to the community, environmental damage to the community, we go to, or the government of Andrej Plenkovic goes into a deal again with that same firm where, if he pays those 25 million, he will sell them more land to make the villages of Podekin that have not made all these years. But for a place, a candy. So it's about the company where the founder of the company is registered in Malta, and we're negotiating to pay us a lousy 25 million kuna, we should make it minimally euro, and at the same time last year, that company had 70,000 kuna income. So, who are you doing business with, dear people? Who do you trade our land with first row to the sea? Who are you giving to literally pollute both the sea and the seashore, the environment and human health? They're your investors. It's a new affair that's going to explode in your face for a minimum, what, a month? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u57944	And now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ivan Kirin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u57945	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the gas self-sufficiency of Croatia. The gas market crisis in Europe has reaffirmed the truth, messages that control energy, control the state, and who controls food controls the people. The European gas market in the first half of this year faced a gas drain on the Asian, Pacific and South American markets. The quantity of LNG deliveries in Europe fell by 15.9%. The price of gas on the world market rose by 40% at one point, but there was market stabilisation. There is a market and political battle around the gas. This crisis is a confirmation that a solution can be found in renewable energy sources. Raw materials, raw materials and energy are the basics of industrial production such as oil in the 20th century, at the beginning of the 21st century gas entered the intensive globalisation process especially in its embedded form. The largest gas sites in Croatia are Molva, Ivanić City, Kutina, Nashice and North Adriatic. The best protection against market movements at continental level is domestic production, and it has fallen over the last years. As gas consumption on the other hand increases, the level of gas self-sufficiency of Croatia falls. The level of gas self-sufficiency in the Republic of Croatia was 54% in 2017 and 2020. 25%. The total gas consumption in Croatia is 2.7 billion cubic metres of gas per year. INA covers 30% with its production. Croatia has enough security gas for this period. Price for the household, which is important that you hear it won't rise. The price of gas for the household is regulated by HERA. The price of gas is set for this regulatory year, which is from April 1st, '21. until 31 March '22. A year. It's a good thing there's a LNG terminal so the opponents weren't visionaries who were against building LNG terminals like not visionaries or anti-vaxers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58001	In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the honourable representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58002	Dear Members, as we record in Croatia the decline in the number of OPGs, I find it extremely important to talk about their role. The OPGs are a link between the production of quality food, the preservation of rural space and life in the country. They are of key importance to economic growth and local development, especially in rural areas such as Eastern Slavonia. Economic motivation is complemented by social, cultural, traditional and ecological reasons that further enlarge the OPG Institute. For farmers carrying out their activities as part of small OPGs, agriculture is not only a job but also a way of life. This is why they are closely linked to land, local territories and regional identity, which makes them excellent material for economic recovery and that of Slavonia and Croatia, of course, the entire rural space on micro-level. In this way they come to life with nature and become guardians of tradition, and the place where they live and work are cherished and treated protectively. All of these should lead them to a great advantage in relation to large business entities whose only motive is to achieve the greatest possible gain. But is that so in Croatia? Several years of neglect towards small farmers and the lack of appropriate agrarian policy measures to create economically sustainable OPGs show that institutions have not sufficiently recognised the potential of small OPGs. The main factors in which insufficient institutional support for small OPGs is reflected could be summarised to the following, unsuitable legislative framework, this primarily refers to regulations governing the inheritance of agricultural land, then depravity, unresolved property relations, high share of state ownership in agricultural land, unfair distribution of land owned land, non-compliance with cataster data and land books, unregulated parcels and undeveloped infrastructure. The large problem of small OPGs is also the uneven distribution of direct support. In Croatia, approximately 10.2% of agricultural producers, including representatives of large-scale capital rather than small family economies, receive more than 500 000 euros in payments. Statistics show that there is no such practice in other EU countries. Austria, for example, has 0.3% in this category, the Netherlands only 0.2%, and Ireland, Greece, Finland, Belgium, Luxembourg and Malta do not have any producer receiving such high support, resulting in the least among these countries and with the weakest production most prefers a large summation of money to a smaller number of entities, thus permanently jeopardising the business and survival of small OPGs. All of the above causes a systematic suspension of production which is profitable, especially in the case of the production of milk as one of the most common products in the diet of citizens. The ruined domestic production of the Republic of Croatia is compensated by imports and therefore comes into the deep food dependence of Croatia on imports from other countries. Taking into account all the advantages mentioned earlier in the area of natural resources that the rural area of Croatia has, it is almost amazing that the state allows its population to be dependent on food imports of often questionable quality. It is precisely a high and growing dependence on imports despite the extremely favourable natural conditions of production of the previous tradition of food self-sufficiency and even the history of high-end exports in certain livestock sectors that is one of the key reasons not only for large foreign borrowing but also for the lagging in economic growth and development. There are a number of those who have realized that there is no place for them in agriculture to leave the rural area. It is precisely in parts of the Republic of Croatia, such as Eastern Slavonia, which have a huge potential for agricultural production that the devastating results testifying as this potential has not been used to a sufficient extent. It reflects the absence of institutional support for small family economies for which the support was a question of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58133	The next club of MPs will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be spoken by a respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58134	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when in any European statistics we are looking for Croatia the sad fact is that the eye already automatically moves on that part of the scale or graph where the results are weakest. It's our reality, and you all know it. That's the way it is with European funds. Croatia is independent in all major announcements and plans and god-awful negotiating successes at the bottom of the Union, which it has indeed done and achieved. But don't worry, because fortunately, we all know who's to blame. It's Ivo Sanader, this corrupt politician who's rightly convicted of robbery and corruption, he's guilty of being like the country where we are because I really can't see and I don't see who else could be guilty. Today in Croatian politics, there is not a single politician who has anything to do with Sanader, and only all HDZ representatives, ministers and other officials have confirmed it themselves. The fact that the rest of us seem to be standing on his left and right, staring behind his shoulder to get caught better, it's just our wrong memory. They have nothing to do with him and his work. Now there's a new Plenkovic HDZ, and they're completely different. It is now a courteous European team, so they are also arrested accordingly, Europeanly courteous. The only problem is that their corruption remains primitive, Balkan. They steal where they come from. Moreover, the EU Regional Development and Funding Minister, HDZ's Gabriela Žalac, and together with her, was arrested by the Director of the Central Agency for the Financing and Negotiation of Programmes and Projects Tomislav Petric, made something that Croatia is not at the bottom and on their job. But we're not that lucky. They are what they are, in their business bad, and when they're still arrested for suspicion of stealing, that Sanader really screwed Plenkovic and the rest of the team that didn't have anything to do with him. There was more pranks, e.g. Tolusic, Kuščević, Maric, does anyone else remember those names? And so it arrested Gabriel the Grief. A woman who's not God knows what she's done in her closet, but that's why the bug was placed in Mrs. Joseph Romec often recorded her name. About suspicious competitions and assignments in the ministry, traffic incidents without a driver's license and expensive cars of unknown origin in the yard that I don't speak at all. By the way, it's a very interesting situation that's caused Mrs. Devereaux to be here. The stinger ended up in an interrogation. The European Public Prosecutor's Office dealing with EU funds has requested an investigation. Why? Because the software that cost 2.9 million kuna was paid 13 million and thus created the code name "Softver". What has also been interesting throughout the story is that the affair also dealt with USKOK, but it suspended the reconnaissance because the evidence collected did not confirm the suspicions found in the media. The money paid by the ministry to the company that delivered the software was already drawn from the company the next day through the payout and loan to the employee. It's really nothing suspicious. After that, the affair was interested in the European Public Prosecutor's Office and now we're here, right here we are, and it's always the same. Unable to do any work, Croatia keeps at the bottom of all the scales, unrenewed after the earthquake, with the crown numbers by which we are in the worst society, but therefore able to steal, darken, pay the job four times more and draw the money. It's a good thing this new HDZ has nothing to do with all this together. It was planted by someone, I guess, by the opposition or the media or by Ivo Sanader. It seems to me that Ivo Sanader must be because under the coat of the European washing prime minister and president of the HDZ there must be corruption and robbery and that in the end European services must react, too, we have never seen before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58180	The next club of representatives will be that of Croatian sovereigns, and the honourable representative Marijan Pavliček will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58181	In a few days we will mark the 30th anniversary of the death of the heroic city of Vukovar and remember the victims of all its inhabitants, defenders and civilians. 2717 this is no ordinary figure for us Vulcans. There are 2717 names and last names behind this figure. Behind this figure is 2717 fate. 2717 unwitting dreams. 2717 lives cut short. It is namely 2717 victims of major Serb aggression in the city of Vukovar. And so today, no matter how much time they'll let me read their names because they've given their lives to create this country and so that we can speak here today what we want. Zvonimir Abramović, Ivan Ačimović, Ivan Adamović, Ivan Adamović, Mato Adamović, Goran Adrić, Jozo Adjaga, Nikola Adžić, Ismet Ivo Ahmetović, Vinko Ajlić, Josip Ajnković, Josip Ajnviler, Andrija Aldjak, Andrija Almaš, Andrija Almaš, Nikola Alvadić, Ivica Alvir, Robert Alvir, Milko Amstat, Mladen Amstronić, Tomo Andrabak, Vlatko Andrijanić, Luka Andrijanić, Andrijanić, Mladen Alvadić, Milka Amstat, Milko Žić, Mladen Amstronić, Andrjanić, Vlatko Andrijanić, Luka Andrijanić, Andrijanić, Danica Andrijanić, Mladen Andrić, Mladen Andrić, Mladen Andrić, Mladen Andrić, Mlažanić, Milko Alkažanić, Milko Žarić, Milko Žalko Žarić, Andrić, Andrić And 2570 other unremarked Croatian civilian defenders. Thank them forever, and glory is with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58182	Thank you, thank them. The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58249	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed Croatian peoples, here I am again about the fascism of the 21st century in the Republic of Croatia. About events that affect many not by their will, about events that many accept silently. It happened for the first time that members of the executive authority sitting at the national headquarters lay down rules that determine the work of the legislative authority in which they should not interfere, which is in the Croatian Parliament. It is not only a problem for us MPs sitting here, here in the Croatian Parliament, that a large number of employees who, although some of you politely welcome you in the hallway, do not notice you, and they ensure that we here work uninterruptedly that everything is at our disposal and that everything in the Croatian Parliament works as well. There are a large number of public service people, customs, ministries, who did not want to be vaccinated, who do not have Covid confirmation and who do not agree to an aggressive PCR test. What would happen if these people told you tomorrow we wouldn't come to work anymore? Croatia would be paralyzed. Are we going to allow in Croatia, instead of using scientific explanations, to develop evidence and positive and negative about the action of both pandemics and vaccines, rather than such contradictory ones that happen daily, why are we going to force people to protect their existence because of these small salaries that now come to what they are forced to do? I'm one of those guys who doesn't want to vaccinate, so if I have to, and I'm gonna sign that I don't want a respirator, but somebody told me here, but what are you gonna do about taking some place in the hospital? For at least 25 years, I haven't been in the hospital, so don't these people who paid pension and health care their entire lives have the right to a place in the hospital if they haven't been vaccinated. People break the Constitution, you forget what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. What are we pretending to be? I know that a lot of us are declared anti-vaxers, so here's a colleague today said that those who are anti-vaxers, just you know I'm not an anti-vaxer, I'm not telling anyone, don't vaccinate, that they're visionaries. But time will show what they are and how they are and what they were talking about. I am willing to put my existential side at my disposal, and I simply do not want to consent from some spite to this coercion that is imposed on us in Croatia. Many people are spontaneously gathering these days, no answer to their questions. Many scientists speak timidly about the problems of this pandemic and everything that is happening. Today my colleague sent me an announcement two times inoculated with a Pfeizer, a driver in Germany trucking because he had to take his stomach after bread, today he has a positive test. So he's still going into isolation even though he's been vaccinated twice. How many times? A hundred times. Do you think those of you who have been vaccinated so many times that there won't be any more? That you'll be spared all that? I am sorry that we share in spite of all the divisions that the Croats have and who brought us here where they brought us after 30 years of the state to sink and that we are the last economic operator in Europe, we also share in this. Are the people of other religions different from us? Are those who have experienced some sort of defect in their lives or have they been born different from us? Are those who have not been vaccinated different from yourselves? They are not gentlemen, accept them as such, respect their rights because they do not endanger anyone. I'm going back to my colleague twice with Pfeizer, positive. Doesn't he threaten you as such if he didn't go to the test in time to think about it, thank you. Mrs. Kekin, you can spread your arms all you want, this is my opinion. You might think I'm a fool, that I'm dumber and stupider than your colleague wrote in a comment, but the day will come when we'll talk, so you'll understand some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58312	On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will now speak. Please don't call your colleague Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58313	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The fourth wave of the pandemic Covid-19 bukta. Yesterday, another record day of 7315 newly infected. It's not time for a policy of irrevocableness, for politics, for populism, or for a call to rebellion and resistance, but for listening to professions and scientists. As a doctor, I am pleased that more and more of our fellow citizens are deciding to vaccinate these days. I'm sorry we weren't vaccinated anymore because there would certainly not be so many infected. But not all guilt on citizens, the headquarters and the government have long been making mistakes that we have spoken of many times, double standards, inconsistencies in the service of politics, confusing citizens, insufficient vaccination campaigns, and insufficient clarification of the need for adherence and control of epidemiological measures. With the recently announced additional measures and preparation for further testing and verification of COvid, the certificate is delayed. Look how it is in other countries. For all those who wave the thesis that both vaccinated and unvaccinated can be infected, so they should be tested equally, you set things wrong. Here's a practical example if there's 10 vaccines in the room, 11 and 12 that aren't vaccinated, who's going to get infected before that 11 that has the coronary virus, that 12 unvaccinated or these 10 vaccinated? Who has a chance to develop a worse clinical picture, the 10 vaccinated or these two unvaccinated? Who should be tested first and more unvaccinated or vaccinated? Of course, both vaccinated and over-experienced for more than 6 months of immunity falls and increases the risk of getting infected, and therefore needs a booster dose or vaccine after getting over it. Testing everyone is too expensive and too expensive for richer countries than we are, and the waist clearly says the vaccinated have a 10 times less chance of getting infected, and if they get infected, the less chance of developing a difficult clinical image, end up on a respirator or die. Now the vaccinated will gain immunity in about 5-6 weeks. If we want to reduce the mortality of the infected curve now, we need to significantly tighten the measures especially in all closed spaces again, says waist. Therefore, citizens should continue to be motivated by vaccination, but also by strict adherence to epidemiological measures, first-row testing for those who have not been vaccinated. You who rebel against masks, did you ask health care professionals how they are every day and with the mask, and in the scuffander 24 hours on duty, and then the problem is to put a mask on when you come in contact with other people. It is not time for the selfishness and desires of individuals, crisis times require crisis adjustment of all. As far as testing is concerned, the least reliable is the saliva test, the most reliable is the PCR test, and then the rapid antigen test. It is up to the authorities to ensure the cheapest PCR and BAT tests and to prevent even the slightest attempt at profit in the supply of equipment and tests. For citizens who do not want to be vaccinated because they are afraid because they think the vaccine is experimental, so far over 7 billion doses of vaccine have been spent in the world, there have been far fewer side effects on the vaccine than on the covid that we do not even know for the next few years, and the number of deaths that I am not talking about. Consult with your family doctors, with us in hospitals, if you have questions and doubts, we have all been educated, there are clear guidelines for pregnant women and for immunely compromised and others and we are truly willing and competent to answer all your questions. The testing for covid certificates is funded from the budget, calculations say that 96 million kuna will be spent monthly for testing non-vaccinated in public and state services and therefore, with the right to be vaccinated, increasingly asked about those who refuse to vaccine why someone would pay them for testing from our pocket, until when, the government must answer that question right now. Fellow MPs who would neither be vaccinated nor tested, if you were entitled to the virus as long as you were not in contact with other people, so the constitutional experts tell you. Now you are allowed to join the meetings of the assemblies and video transmissions, and if you will not join them, then you should also be punished financially. The Assembly is a place where we should be critical of all the bad political decisions of the headquarters and governments that were many, but publicly calling on people to resist mandatory vaccination at a time when vaccination is not mandatory where followers hear only the word resistance is counterproductive and irresponsible. Resistance to measures, vaccinations, testing, masks, to whom they do harm, to all of us. We cannot talk about pressure and discrimination against the unvaccinated, the unvaccinated still have the right to remain unvaccinated, and they may not adhere to the measures, but as long as they are not close to other people because then they endanger both my and your health and the health of their nearby and vaccinated environments. The vaccines are losing time to review the operation because the hospital facilities are being devoted to the unvaccinated, so they might say they're becoming more discriminated against, right? Dear citizens, listen to the profession and scientists, vaccinate, stick to epidemiological measures, because that's the only way to speed up the end of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58344	Here since it is 1 hour then we will normally go to the presentation of the position on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives and the privy will speak the esteemed representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u58345	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, today the law, the addition of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, has entered into force in which new censorships for supplementary health insurance have been detained and 2,000 kuna per member of the family, or 2,500 kuna, respectively, if a person lives as a single person. So, the dimensions of this project are about 120,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia in most pensioners, but this is not just a law for pensioners, but for all citizens who suffer from indifference living with the lowest incomes in the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to point out that this is an income censorship. So, of course, what should we do now? A request should be made for the release of a free supplementary health insurance policy. This can be done in all areas, regional and regional offices of HZZO physically, and can also be done electronically, so via e-mail on-line to this intended form, so that anyone can do so for anyone with the fact that the user of free supplementary health insurance has to sign that form and send it to HZZO as an attachment. In addition, I was promised in HZZO that they themselves would spin the database for all those who recently dropped out, or came above that censorship, so they fell out of free supplementary health insurance. So the censorships are significantly increased by 400, 450 kuna and that's good financial for those 120,000 people because instead the state will pay about 100 million kuna in the budget next year to settle that cost, but there's another dimension. The dimension is the availability of healthcare because a lot of people are this time as they dropped out of censorship did not negotiate new shelves because they simply didn't have enough money, so they were afraid to go to a doctor for the risk of high costs of participation. So it's a big, big step on that side, too. This is a small stone in the mosaic of fighting poverty, but also building a social state. The social state is not created overnight, the social state is not created by one move to be upgraded year after year. This is the product of my project cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in some ways I strongly commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it has accepted the arguments to which I have explained this need and the adoption of this law and the coverage of this part of the citizens. It's not the end, it's not the end. This will be the shortest valid census since by the end of the month it will be increased by my humble estimate of at least 30 kuna due to the harmonisation mechanism that has been incorporated into the law itself. So there's going to be something else, something bigger. So even those who are somewhere above the censors 20, 30 kuna can freely apply because this indexation, indexation by the end of the year, or coordination will cover them. So what follows, so the fight against poverty and the creation of a social state on the basis of the contributions paid for pension insurance continues. We work together with the ministry and HZMO on a model of family pensions that will also be social but primarily just to recognise the payment of contributions, contributions through the years and expect news on this issue soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u61375	Now we move to: - Selection, appointments and resolutions; as we announced at the beginning of the session. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Honored Nada Murganic to explain the proposal for a Decision. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u61376	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. On the basis of Art. 81 The Constitution of the Croatian Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs at its session adopted a Decision on the discharge and appointment of the president and members of the Faust Vrancic Award Committee. First, the president of the Faust Vrancic Award Committee, Professor Dr. Zdenko Kovačić is also relieved of his duties as members of the Faust Vrančić Award Committee, Dr. Ivan Uroda, Vlado Lendvaj, Nikola Dimitrović, Ante Markotić, Dubravka Diklic and academician Željko Reiner. And the second point of the same Decision is that in the Committee for the Award of the Faust Vrancic, Professor Dr. Zdenko Kovačić, and for the members of Prof. Dr. Božidaj Matijević, Nikola Dmitrović, professor Dragan Pavelin, dipl.ing. Marko Ilijashev, degree.ing.prof.Dr. Ante Markotic and mag. Marko Pavić. The decision will be published in the National Journal, and will take effect on the day of the vote in Croatia, in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u61377	I would like to thank the president of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on this when the conditions are met. That's what we're done with today's work. We'll continue at 9.30 tomorrow with a statement on the amendments. After that, we'd move on to a club stand. In particular, I would like to stress that, please, all the few present others, to pass on to your colleagues that the presentation of the club's views will be after the amendment has been made, and we will vote on the points discussed at 12 o'clock. So the amendment will be before, I stress once more before, that is, taking the club's position before the vote at 12 o'clock, and not as usual behind, so please give it to all colleagues who want to discuss it in any way. And have a nice evening. Session interrupted at 17.05 p.m. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Before we start working, one notice. Today we're going to discuss the final point of choice, appointment and resolution, which is common, but here, so you know. Now we'd move on to the first point, as announced yesterday. This is: - Final proposal of the Law on technical requirements for products and assessment of conformity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 204; The Proposer is the Government based Article 204. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71159	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, the honourable MPs, the honourable MPs. So this is the Proposal for a Law on Technical Requirements for Products and the Assessment of Consistency with the Final Proposal of the Law. On this proposal for a law, I will firstly say that the Committee on Legislatives has tabled four amendments, and we will accept them. The reasons for the adoption of this law are as follows, according to us, so we had an existing law that was passed in 2013, it was amended in 2014, and it was changed in 2019, and by doing so, we have complied with more than 50% of the applicable provisions of that law in 2013, and then, having come out of the 2 new regulations in 2019 that we had to implement, we are going with this new Bill Proposal which, among other things, has been better done. The regulations that we have implemented here are Regulations 765 2008 laying down the requirements for accreditation in the part relating to the general principles of marking C, which is a European quality mark, and then Regulation 1020 of 2019 on market surveillance and conformity of the product which we are about to say something more about here. This is Regulation 515 of 2019 on mutual recognition of goods which are legally placed on the market in another Member State which I will also say something about. They are regulated here. 1-4 of this bill. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7 We have predicted that regarding Regulation 1020, we note how the law ensures the implementation of the same in part of those regulations that have been taken over under this Law. For example, they apply to the following product groups, which are aerosol sprayers, hot water boilers, machines, pressure equipment, gas appliances, elevator radio equipment, crystal glass, shoes, textiles, etc., that is, to the public, what is the procedure of this Regulation. ... the same Bill Proposal in Art. 5 It is envisaged that, following the adoption of this Act, the resolution ministers will adopt their own rules on the installation of the following elements, the basic elements, which are, the technical requirements that must be met by the products placed on the market, the documentation, will be laid down documentation on compliance necessary to demonstrate compliance of the product with the prescribed requirements and will also be prescribed to those rules on the way of labelling of the product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why am I saying that? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Those regulations also require that inspectorate obligations in conformity control. So, also, here, in that set, the competent authorities are already prescribed to assess the conformity of the product according to these rules as defined in Article. Five of these laws. Art. 22-25 the basis of this Regulation is established in the Republic of Croatia, hence certain mechanisms are established, one of these single liaison offices of the State Inspectorate responsible for coordinating activities between inspections of products placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia and in order to ensure a high level of public interest protection, such as health, safety and consumer protection, the environment, etc. This proposal also prescribes conditions for ensuring effective cooperation between the different market surveillance bodies of the Member States, and in accordance with the implementation of cross-border cooperation, that is, so on. cross-border mutual assistance, all national market surveillance bodies participate. EU Member States shall exchange information on market surveillance measures taken through the market surveillance information and communication system. It's the same. 26. In order to increase the level of consumer product safety, the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1020/2019 shall be ensured in a work relating to the application of the so-called ‘Staff’. RAPEX system. In the case of products that pose a serious risk on the market in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the RAPEX system was established on the basis of the 2001 Directive and is used by the EU Member States for the rapid exchange of information with the European Commission on measures and activities taken in relation to products that pose a serious risk to consumer health and safety and are placed on the EU common market. As a national contact point for the implementation of the RAPIX system, a state inspectorate has been designated. And only a few data, so in 2021, the Commission provided 1644 notifications through RAPEX, which were based on the notified information supplied on the market in the Republic of Croatia, 173 products were found, therefore, risk products, and these are products from categories of motor vehicles, electrical devices, children's products and equipment, hobbies and sports equipment. And also the national contact point, therefore, our domestic national authority has informed the European Commission and other EU Member States of the 17 products found on the risk market in the Republic of Croatia and these are mostly 9 toys, 2 laptops, children's sleeping bags, mixers and so on, and so on, they pose a risk to consumer safety. So that's, that's how the RAPEX system works. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 21, the role of the point of contact for products which are the main information providers in the EU Member States on all rules relating to products is further strengthened, including national technical rules, which e.g. refers to the requirements relating to the name, form, size, weight, composition or packaging of certain products. In the Republic of Croatia, the product contact point was established at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. The Croatian Product Contact Point received and replied a total of 236 requests during 2020. In 2021, a total of 111 questionnaires were received from November, from which the enquiries of economic operators from the Republic of Croatia were 96 and the enquiries of economic operators from the EU 15. In addition, Article 21 of this Law further strengthens the role of the Solvit network as a tool for extrajudicial dispute resolution in the EU internal market, which can be held by citizens and companies, which cause public authorities of Member States to wrongly apply EU law, also since the total number of complaints collected in 2020 was 149 in the Solvita system and the total complaints which were processed in 2021, 184 of which 82 against EU Member States and 14 against the Republic of Croatia. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 34th is governed by the status of the rules adopted under the applicable laws and it is prescribed that they remain in force until new rules are adopted and will be adopted within 1 year of the date of entry into force of this law. For the purposes of repealing the provisions in question, the Heads of State Administration shall be responsible for the work of which is subject to the regulation of the sublaw and that obligation shall be governed by Article 35 of this proposal. For example, the Head of State Administration is obliged to regulate rules relating to crystalline glass, degrees of action of new hot water boilers on liquid, gas fuel, marking of the material of the main parts of the shoe, intended for sale of consumers, safety of machinery, etc., etc. in the field of energy, it is necessary to regulate regulations relating to technical norms, to protect low power grids and subsistence transformers, technical measures for the propulsion and maintenance of power plants, The Head of State Administration responsible for electronic communications, for example under this law, is obliged to regulate regulations in the field of electromagnetic compatibility, radio equipment, etc., etc. [[I'm sorry.]] As regards the applicable law, provisions on the taking of administrative measures by a competent inspection have been developed from 2013 to now, normatively structured infringements are more clearly, in such a way that they are designed according to individual obligations of economic operators and, for the sake of clarity and precision, nomotechnical improvements have been made in certain places. A working group was established to include representatives of the competent authorities of the state administration and representatives of the economic operators, namely HGK, HUP, Croatian Chamber of crafts, Croatian exporters. The subject-matter proposal for the law was at an e-consultation from 30 days from 17.8 to 17.9.2021. The opinion was therefore to the social partners, the GSV as well as not to the competent state authorities. This law is proposed to adopt an emergency procedure, since it is necessary to ensure that Regulation 1020 of the 19th year on the surveillance of the product market has been implemented since 16 July 2021. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia was also obliged to impose sanctions applicable within the 2019 infringement of Regulation (EC) No 1020, which impose obligations on economic operators and which should be notified to the European Union, further necessary to ensure that the designated market surveillance authority or the single liaison office in the Republic of Croatia, market surveillance measures, and effective control of products entering the European Union market. These are the reasons why we asked this bill to be classified as an emergency procedure. Therefore, all of this is done in 9 thematic parts which are prescribed, clearly prescribed and handled by the competent authorities, economic operators and inspections. The basic communication instruments with the European Commission have also been defined, sanctions have been imposed on all participants, i.e. economic operators according to their level of participation in certain trade processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71160	Thank you. Stay here because we have more replicas. The first is a respected representative, Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71161	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State in Art. 4 states that this Law also applies to products in use. You mentioned the elevators, so I'll let you know what the elevator safety rule says in art. 17. It states that inspection supervision of the implementation of the Regulation governing the safety of lifts in use which are incorporated and used permanently in buildings, in accordance with the Technical Requirements Act for products and conformity assessment, shall be carried out by inspectors in accordance with their respective competences. Right now, it's just that if I'm not mistaken, I'm the building inspector. I am interested in whether he can, on the basis of the existing and the basis of this new law, prohibit the use of elevators that are not maintained according to what is prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71162	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71163	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So you asked a specific question. I'm not really competent whether I can answer whether they can act in a way that forbids the use of elevators, if there is a technical regulation that indicates it, then probably as a measure can be said. What is important is that we, at the request of the DIRH, have maintained certain standards which are in some way exceeded over a period of one year until they all need to be updated according to the terms of this Act, within a year new technical standards must be adopted in all areas and that is, in order not to have one legal vacuum, we have maintained old regulations, old standards, the possibility of using old standards in the conduct of inspection and within a year these standards must be updated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71164	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71165	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. We have in this proposal a provision of Art. 7 which states that, that this will not apply to the determination of consent for products which are governed by certain specific regulations. And now we've got this whole area tied up and you've listed it that they've tied sublegal acts on a low voltage network so I don't bring them up here right now. They are from the 78th year we have taken over and those who are Rules of Procedure, regardless of how old they are, but if some norms have not changed, we are in compliance with European norms, and now these same Rules refer to you in this regulation, but refer to yourself in the regulation that this House passed a month ago, so I am interested, and there is the same deadline in which it should be harmonised. Compared to these 78 regulations, there are one 4.5 that you're going to apply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71166	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71167	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So you're talking about the standards of so-called. JUS standards that are still kept in, which are current in, with us. So, we were just trying to make a commitment with this Law to make these laws, the relevant standards within a year, adapt to these requirements from the European, or from the Directive. In order not to have that legal vacuum in the conduct of the inspection, the inspection requested that it remain, these JUS regulations, the standards remain in force so that they would have a legal basis for action until within a year those standards were agreed, so the new Rules of Procedures were adopted, so I stated there that the heads of the Ministry had an obligation, so I could give further examples, however, this one, so within a year they must agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71168	Thank you. Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This law is adopted by an emergency procedure and this is not unusual, because we are usually late to comply with the regulation adopted at European Union level and we still have such 84 regulations from all resolutions. How do you expect, in this particular example, that this Law will improve consumer protection, i.e. improve product verification when we know that we are as a Member State which reports the least dangerous health products in the Rapeks system, especially if we consider that most of the declared products refer to products for children, toys, etc., and the delay with regulation of regulations takes on special importance and a direct threat to both the most vulnerable ones. Here you mentioned that it is only 17 products that we have reported in this system and that as users of 1600 products we have withdrawn from the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71170	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71171	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So this last number you said, the number of notifications referred to it was the number of Commissions at European Union level, 1644 requests, i.e. the warning of dangerous products is for the whole area of the European market. So, not to get the impression that so many dangerous products have come to the market of the Republic of Croatia. We have worked this Law for almost a year because it was necessary in all details to bring it into line with all the economics, with all the factors to which this Law applies and with all the authorities of the state administration. It's the mass of regulations to go through and this job has been going on for a long time, so maybe we're a little late, and that's why we asked for this to go according to the emergency procedure because it is, because this regulation which is the basis of this law has been applied since 16 July, so the truth, we're a little late, but we passed this law, and I think we're going to iron out pretty fast all of what we should have done maybe six months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71172	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71173	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, we are in line with European directives and in fact we want to improve the functioning of the internal market by strengthening the surveillance of products placed on the market to make sure that they are in compliance with technical regulations and in order to protect and protect the health of our citizens, the interests of consumers, public interests, the environment and everything that we need to protect in some way by law. You said that we found 173 non-compliant products on our market, that most of them refer to electronic devices, that my question is that we know that some electronic devices are programmed to break down after their warranty has expired, that they are actually in the beginning of the goods with a mistake and that these consumers are pulling out a thicker end. Will this law in any way resolve this issue or will this issue be resolved by other laws?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71174	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71175	Dear MPs, so I think, and we who have done this legal solution, this bill, we believe that with these mechanisms that I have made, with these 4 new systems, with RAPEX, with contact points, with SOLVIT, as a measure, with a network of information, etc., we will manage to raise awareness of the citizens and give them the opportunity to, if they consider that they have come into possession of a product that is risky on various grounds, and even after a period of time, that they will be able to address these competent institutions and, of course, the competent inspectorate. Here, if you've seen that we're in art. 25 to the inspectorate whether very wide diapazone measures where such products can be placed very quickly in a short procedure out of use, even provided for certain penalties for the non-compliance of standards for manufacturers, so I think we will deal with this to prevent some negative behaviour on the market. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71176	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71177	Dear Secretary of State, my question is very simple. What's the reason the government doesn't respect HS? We witness here every week that the laws come by emergency procedure. What is the responsibility of you and your ministry to the fact that the regulations were passed two years ago, that the directive came into force six months ago, that we are de facto implementing it and that we are getting the law on the bench today? I have to admit, I see a lot of colleagues here today, it's no problem to read this law in one reading, figure out what's inside, but if it's not our problem to do in 7 days, why does the government have a problem in 2 years to do practically the same job? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71178	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71179	I thank you, Your Honor, so first of all, to say that I answer here in front of the Ministry of Economy, this is the first and only law that we have proposed by emergency reading from our portfolio. I can't tell you about any other resources. The logic of this first, this urgent procedure is that we, we believe that this law should come into force immediately, and I have previously said that we have worked on it for almost a year, if not more, because it took all this force and this large number and network of regulations to coordinate and agree with each other. So, if it is a directive in 2019 or one and the other have come into force in the EU Parliament in 2019, and we've worked a year to agree, then I don't think we've spent too much time, so you can't, like that. significant overnight acts to be implemented [[Intruder: Thank you.]] in national legislation, a [[Thank you. Dear... thank you very much.]] so you don't run a deep analysis before. [[Employed: Dear Representative Dretar.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71180	.../ Insect: Dear Representative Dretar./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71181	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. This is the law, the law is like law, lots of letters on even more paper. What you mentioned, here, we will also have a National Contact Point, my question will read, does the Ministry intend to carry out certain public activities in order to explain their rights to citizens, customers and consumers a little more precisely in the future, in some way, to educate the Ministry in how and how they can protect their rights, or how they can perform certain advertising and other problems with products that are not possibly in conformity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71182	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71183	I thank you, Your Honor. This one. This law is not something, but there are only 38 articles, so we can't say that this is one big text, and in any case this is what we are discussing today and your replicas and your questions are part of a public debate, and so we want with this kind of communication, we want to raise awareness, first of all, of the users, so who is the consummation of these, these, these regulations, these are businessmen and, of course, citizens who consume their products. As a ministry, we will certainly have this, one broad public debate that will make citizens available to us with the basic advantages and dangers that this Law points to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71184	Dear Representative Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71185	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. From 22 May 2022, it will be prohibited to place double-quality goods on the Croatian market, and traders will be able to be punished by up to 4% of annual traffic for cross-border consumer rights violations. In order to ensure freedom of movement of goods on the internal market, it is necessary to ensure the conformity of the product with Union legislation, the extent and extent of control of goods from third countries entering the Croatian market through EU member states and not complying with compliance standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71186	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71187	Thank you, Your Honor. So, to this particular question of yours, the answer would be, therefore, Art. 22. We have provided for the Institute a single liaison office at the State Inspectorate. So, the state inspectorate is, our state inspectorate joins this law into a network of inspectorates at the level of the EU market where they have coordinated communication and where they together prevent exactly this problem that you are now talking about. So this law opens up the possibility and therefore creates an obligation for our inspectorate to be involved in coordinated actions for cross-border mutual assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71188	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71189	My dear secretary, I think we both agree that at the moment the owner realizes that something is wrong with the product that it is already a little late and that our inspectorate should actually take a lot of action long before this product comes into use. When our product owner who bought this product notices that something is wrong and needs to be advertised somewhere, it should be tipped off to someone for a while to get a new product and that product can be used. That's one question. The second question is about penalties, Mr. Kleman mentioned it here, however, what I am interested in is that you gave thought to that punishment, it says and in, it was also in the debate of the public question, you made aware that the penalties for craftsmanship were too great. So, a fine of 10,000 kuna or 15,000 kuna to 50,000 kuna for a craftsman is a very large penalty and it is not a punishment that is adequate since there are far larger importers who have far greater traffic and they are 15 thousand kunas or 50,000 kunas very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71190	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71191	I thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, the general message of this law in the part of the normisation or determination of sanctions is that sanctions or penalties must be appropriate to the degree of negative engagement of each individual, legal and natural person in the chain of production, trade, distribution, etc. and they must be in line with the State Inspectorate. We think these penalties are better structured, I have them here complete, so they are given from up to, both for craftsmen and natural persons and for legal persons. Therefore, the level of penalties will be from to the extent determined according to the role of the craftsman in the actions not permitted in the whole distribution process, the sale of goods, the placing of goods on the market that is not harmonised, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71192	Thank you very much. I will now open the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, will speak to the respected representative Vesna Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71193	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and colleague, if you may wonder why and why this interest in elevators suddenly and what made me want to focus on the elevators right now in this law, I was offered an unfortunate event of less than a year. In the center of Zagreb in a 90-year-old elevator building, a boy was injured, he sustained severe injuries to his lungs and liver and minor head injuries. Therefore, my question regarding the inspection control of elevators is focused precisely on the administrative measures which the inspector in charge may impose in accordance with the applicable law but also on this law which, by emergency procedure, has arrived today on our benches and the answer is very simple, my specific question is not to prohibit the work of elevators. So neither by virtue of the applicable law nor by the basis of this law that has arrived by emergency procedure was he a construction inspector although I must ask myself what kind of connections the building inspectors have to do with the inspection work of the elevator except that the elevator is located in the building, which is its specific knowledge of whether the elevator is correct or not, means only the police, when the accident has already occurred, can ban that elevator from working. No inspector can do that. Why are we waiting for the accident to happen, why can't we stop it? And elevators may be something we meet every day but there are ammonia tanks, steam boilers, pipeline safety valves and other equipment used in the process industry. Believe me, I know very well what I'm talking about because I spent 20 years in the process industry, I've visited many plants, not only in Croatia, but also in Western and Eastern Europe. So this law is not only for new products that are placed on the market, although according to the text that could have been concluded otherwise in front of us. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The sentence 4 states that ‘in order to protect life, human health, domestic animals, plants, environmental protection, consumers, etc.’ the Rules governing technical requirements for products and conformity assessment procedures for certain products or product groups shall be adopted, including where appropriate, rules on regular and extraordinary checks and studies of products in use. I stress products in use. This is not only the law for new products, it is also for many products that are in use. That's why my question was related here to the inspection control of the elevators, but as I have already said what can the inspector do when the ammonia tank, when the steam boiler, when something else in the process industry is not in line with the technical requirements or not maintained in accordance with the regulations and poses a danger to the environment? This Proposal for a Law shall prescribe administrative measures, infringements of provisions in the exercise of inspection controls. But there's no restraining order here. See Article 25. There are administrative measures provided for by the competent inspection authority and there is nothing to say. So, who's going to answer when you're here like in this case that I've led you to be threatened by one young life and in some way unhappy for the rest of your life? I therefore proposed an amendment to Article 25 in order to enable the competent inspection body to issue a solution prohibiting the use of equipment which does not meet the technical requirements mainly in situations where this poses a serious threat to human health and safety if it has not been removed after the measure which first the inspector came forward, has seen shortcomings and issued first warnings and has requested that the deficiencies be removed. What is foreseen is that the inspector may prohibit the placing on the market or withdrawal of products already placed on the market. Therefore, it seems to me and cannot be taken away from the impression that the applicant had only taken into account new products, without taking into account at all the very demanding and dangerous products already in the process industry in consumption and for years. Finally, I have to point out something that really got my attention, which is article 35. All sublaws, many rules dating back to the time of the former Yugoslavia, are listed there. And now I'm only going to give you some. Regulation on technical standards for the protection of low voltage networks and related transformers cells from 1978, and then Regulation on technical measures for the propulsion and maintenance of power plants that are even slightly older. That date dates back to 1968, my peer. Regulation on technical standards for the setting of ground-based power lines and telecommunications cable lines from 1986. As much as my memory serves in telecommunications, something has changed from 1986 to the day. For example. There were no cell phones at the time. Somehow I can't get the impression that we don't seem to have any engineers in this competent ministry. Do you have any engineers who might want to take a look at those rules or are all those who finish your hospitality and hoteling in Opatija? So I guess I should take a closer look at it. It's not exciting to write the rules, but it has to be. These are post-law acts that must be done in a way that are consistent with time and technological development today, not 30 or more years ago. The bill also states the agricultural inspector, although in the list of sublegal acts I do not really see any which would be the subject of their interest. Correct me if I'm wrong. All in all, another law by emergency procedure, because you are a little late, another alignment with the legislation of the European Union but without careful reflection on what implications this law will have for implementation. So there's still some industry in Croatia. Believe it or not, it's not all gone. It's that it's been halved. It's far less than it was in 89, but not everything's been destroyed, and in that industry, we use a number of tanks, valves, boilers, and here we have elevators in every major building. So these are some things that we meet almost daily, and on the other hand I really don't know if we have enough building inspectors to get past all these elevators, how often they control them, how much knowledge they need to control them properly. Now you've added electricity here. Maybe you needed some engineers, too? It seems to me that engineers may need it to be a profession that could deal with elevators, but here I leave it to the people of the Ministry to determine it. And it seems to me that the motionary didn't have all this in mind. This is so little done in such a hurry that we get along, and here I am appealing once again to think about what I'm talking about to prevent some situations so that there are no accidents and that it's not the police that will ban the work, because in elevators people can get hurt, and imagine having an accident that can happen in the process industry if something isn't maintained properly. These are serious malices and consider providing competent inspections with a framework where they will still be able to give a ban on work if they are based on their recommendations and measures that they have previously made do not address shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71194	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zarko Tušek, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71195	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed colleague and fellow State Secretary. The relevant law means that it regulates this area dates back to what we've heard since 2003, and so far it's had two novelties. However, how it is necessary to ensure that the three European regulations are implemented is implemented through a new legislative proposal that will actually contribute to the strengthening of the fundamental regulatory framework for the freedom of movement of goods and thus to strengthening the emission market in this area. A brief review of the three regulations of the European Union whose implementation is ensured by this proposal. The first is a regulation laying down requirements for accreditation. This part applies to the general principles of CE marking. The CE marking is actually a abbreviations and represents a label of the manufacturer that the product meets all relevant safety and health requirements in relation to the European Union guidelines and hormonalised standards. Free flow of goods is the cornerstone of the internal market of the European Union and it is the CE marking that allows free flow of goods on that market for which it is the reason for the first name and passport of the product for the European market. The obligation of our exporters to the European Union is to mark the CE marking product. The second regulation I would say in the spirit of the adoption of today's law is, in fact, the most significant, since, as I said, the law itself is adopted by an urgent procedure, the European Union Regulation on market surveillance and product conformity. It has been in full application since 16 July 2021. Its provisions cover all products subject to Union legislation on technical harmonisation. Therefore, this Regulation provides us with a single framework for the supervision of these products on the Union market and helps increase consumer and other end-users' trust in products placed on the European market. The third regulation whose implementation is ensured is a regulation on mutual recognition of goods legally placed on the market in another Member State, which will strengthen the functioning of the internal market by improving, i.e. by ensuring consistent and correct application of the principle of mutual recognition. By implementing those Regulations under the proposed legal text, all economic operators participating in the supply and distribution chain of products are obliged to take appropriate measures to ensure that products which comply exclusively with the provisions of the rules applicable to a specific product are placed on the market. Then, very importantly, the role of the contact point for PCP products as the main provider of information on all product-related rules is strengthened. Among other things, on national and technical rules covered by the application of the principle of mutual recognition, with a view to strengthening cooperation in ensuring the application of internal market rules. The Contact Point should be established within the framework of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. The role of the Solvit network is also strengthened as a tool for resolving disputes on the European Union's internal market with a view to facilitating the achievement of the internal market's advantage on addressing cross-border problems related to incorrect application of European Union rules. A single liaison office with the State Inspectorate is also established in the Republic of Croatia, which is responsible for coordinating activities between inspection competent, inspection of products placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. Important to say also, at the time of entry, the customs authorities shall have the power to control the products in accordance with this Regulation on the basis of a risk analysis, if they comply with the rules on technical consent and whether they are correctly marked. In the context of the discussion of counterpart Vucilović, I, it is also important to say that new rules will be adopted which will regulate technical processes and technical process requirements in a different way. So, in addition to this legislative review, technical requirements for products and procedures for assessing compliance for certain products will actually be regulated in more detail by the rules. In this respect, the Heads of State Administration will, in accordance with their section, adopt regulations with the prior consent of the Minister responsible for the Economy, which prescribes technical requirements for products and conformity assessment procedures for certain products. The Croatian Democratic Community's club in the head of the law relating to infringement provisions particularly welcomes the prevention before the very punishment of business entities. Therefore, a warning by the competent inspectorate, and only in the event of recurrence of the act or failure of the imposed corrective measures, sanctioning the perpetrator. Something in the context of a debate held by counterpart Pavic in his replica. And to end, the law will ultimately allow further strengthening of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in such a way as to make it impossible to place non-compliant products on the market by strengthening market surveillance. By providing clearer and more comprehensive rules to economic operators, by strengthening compliance checks and by promoting cross-border cooperation between implementing bodies. Thus, in the context of the debate that was proposed here today and in the context of the debate of the secretary of state, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71196	Now, on behalf of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, Anka's representative, Mrak Taritash, will speak with respect. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71197	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We are facing the urgent procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Technical Requirements for Products and the Assessment of Consistency. I'm gonna talk about this a little bit about shape and a little bit about content. First form. So, when is P.Z. So we are saying that compliance with the European Union directives really has the possibility of an emergency procedure. But this emergency procedure should always be justified. It seems to me that there was no excuse for an emergency procedure here, that it could absolutely go in two readings. Somewhere even from this pay phone I can say and say ok, I understand why it was an emergency procedure. That's when you get somewhere late, you don't come too late because it was too far, but because you went too late. So here and here. It's not a topic because it's now something, but it's been decided late and it's come normative, and it's concluded that by the end of the year, there's no time for two readings, and it's clearly needed to be communicated and said. This law, as already stated, ensures a high protection of public interests, such as health, safety, health and safety at work, consumer protection, environment and public security and all other public interests, and in relation to the form, we can absolutely say that we have a law that will define the things we need to define, we have given some deadlines, we have provided certain conditions for certain rules to be adopted within a year and the form will be met. But then we need to see what the content is and how it will be implemented. I am one of those who really thinks that Croatia is extremely good that it is an EU member, that it is extremely good that we are in a society of more organised, better, more capable than we are, but there is a need to include common sense. You don't need to rewrite everything every time without including something critical. Otherwise, we're very inclined to freak everyone out. We're very prone to where we need to go and we don't need to bring in different regulations. We are very inclined to define until the last drop of blood, but then we have a problem implementing and a problem with how it will be carried out. I have to admit I've seen a lot of things in my working life, at one point I was very interested in the activity of gas stations, especially when they started to break down, so I was curious that all one man who decided to build a gas station, whether it was an individual or what had to be done, was one of my favorite controls that I'm now mentioning and that over time was not lifted visual surveillance of the buried fuel tanks. So, I'm good at speaking, the regulation is defined as going visual surveillance of the buried fuel tanks. I asked you to explain how you do it? Maybe I don't see it because the tanks are buried, they have a worse window, so the inspector can come eventually open it and see it. What? Nothing. And it was supposed to work once every two years, and it cost a certain amount. So let's just put some sense into it together and see what and how. It's the easiest thing to write a provision within a year to bring it all together. I've also been on the board and today I've referred to these regulations that came from '68, '78, so all I need to do is read them and see if they need to be audited or if they can just say they're still worth it. 'Cause if it's a good '68 rule. Or '78. It doesn't matter what he's so old, if it's what he's doing, if everyone's working on him and he's saying he just needs them like we introduced a series of other things into our legislation and so on. I usually love one rule when we talk about the area of architecture that's from '64, which we're still applying in the process, or my colleagues in the design process, and you have those regulations that you're setting out the area of the apartment, so we've changed that rule three times already. And this one from '64. It's still in effect and it's well defined how, as defined by the size of the apartment, what's half the room, what's the storage and everything else. So, what do I want to tell you? What's well defined is I'm not in favor of us being bigger popes now than popes, but that's what we always are. And I'm gonna use this part on the inspection. Often when we do not know how to solve something or when we do not have answers, then we are very often inclined to move it to the communal directors, so our communal directors worry about everything and everything, as far as I know they do not participate in divorces, but they almost participate except their own, I guess, but they almost participate in everything. Now I see here a big head tied to inspection surveillance. This inspection shall be carried out by market inspectors, pressure equipment inspectors, those related to this visual surveillance of buried containers, electricity inspectors, building inspectors and agricultural inspectors. So we have a great inspectorate, and in that inspectorate we have a number of inspectors that don't increase but decreases. We all see inspectors as grandmother horns going around punishing. That's not the role of inspector. Let's return what is the role of inspector and inspectorate. We live at one time now it's going to be two years of absolutely insane and I'm waiting really for the day when we're going to start living normally. It's an abnormal time when inspectors couldn't really go in the field because I doubt it could be determined, and everything in the field should have been used for other things. Otherwise, you're very difficult, so we're very hard to get quality people in inspection for a few reasons. If you have the knowledge you need to have for your salary inspection is too small, your obligations are quite large and very often high quality when you don't want to be inspected and go where something better is offered to him. And these are our facts that we have. And the inspectors should know when we're talking about one area, so they don't need to know by heart, but at least they need to know a lot of the regulations that they're talking about, they need to read them, they need to understand the whole part of the administrative law that should be absolutely like a good day. And here too is this law of great importance to the inspector's day, and what would be important in the role of inspector, I think someone said not immediately but first warning, but education. My people, so what's important and it's the responsibility of the ministry, so we've now put inspectors in the state inspectorate they're squatting there hope they have a good relationship with the ministry but it's the subject of education. The topic of knowledge, the topic of why we even bring these laws, so we do not pass these laws because at the end of the year when we talk about the work of the Croatian Parliament, the president of the assembly could tell Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic that so many regulations, so many amendments and additions were passed, probably not because we could scribble there to be commended here we agreed in this area and in this area. I guess we're passing laws to make our citizens feel better. This set of laws is ultimately for the protection of all our citizens, for the protection of consumers that when they buy they know what they buy, when a device breaks down, and it breaks down, and we know it very often, and they are made that you can no longer fix them so they know who to turn to, who to act for, and the inspector must have tools in his hands. So, first of all, he must have knowledge. Second, he must have experience, and as a third, he must have a tool that he can work with and do something about. And now I'm asking you, is this set of laws where there are a few I mean somewhere a dozen provisions that are related to the inspection even made possible. I particularly like the provision of Article 27 when it says that the inspector can act under a secret identity. Now that you have 10 inspectors, and believe me, in some areas you don't have that much, why don't you explain to me in one Croatia where everyone knows how he's going to work under a secret identity? I'm only afraid of being a Batman or someone else, not really. So, I understand it all and it all makes sense together. It's just that we know if he's a wife, a child, or a partner, that he's doing a job for him. Let's understand, I kind of law think we first have to understand what we're trying to do with them. When we understand what we want to achieve, then we will have them well written and good to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71198	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative named Brumnic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71199	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I've said several times that after my colleague, Mr. Tarritash can only go on with the things she said, so I'm going to continue exactly where she stopped for why we're bringing this law. We are bringing it in because Europe has told us that we should bring it in, or we are already applying it to the Directive because it came into force 6 months ago, so they brought me this Law or not we should be doing it because we are part of the European Union which is already in force. And now we're going back to two things from the proposal. One is when he answered me not his Ministry submitted, but only this law in this assembly. I have to admit to all the data in this session I haven't come up with, but I've come up with all the data that we have on the Internet relatively transparent in this session. I didn't tell your ministry. I told the government, and in this assembly, the government sent seven emergency procedures to this session, and one emergency procedure was sent by the MPs, and we have nine working weeks of this session. So we're missing another ambulance so we can have law one every week. So much for how the government works. The promoter tried to explain that it took him a year to write this, because this is complicated matter. I can agree that matter is not simple, especially it is not simple if we stick to the laws and regulations that were passed before I was born. Someone said they were brought in in the year of his birth. I say before I was born, means I'm a little younger. And it took them a year. Let us note that the Directive was adopted in 2019 plus a year would be 2020. It's the end of 2021. The directive itself has been in effect for six months now, so we have a problem. But let's go back a little bit more why we're passing this law. Because it is trying to arrange something within the European Union, as is called freedom of movement of goods, quality, transparency, safer market, as simple as they would then say a more quality slush more accessible market and economy and citizens. I will return to one debate of my own when I came from this pay phone when Europe first borrowed, or as Europe, credited or issued bonds, said that we are aware that the United States of Europe is slowly being created. You can tell from this law. We're going towards it. What's my question is are we in this House aware of it and is that our goal? I must admit, for now it has proved not bad to be part of the European Union, that it is good to be in a better society, in society of those who are developing faster, working better, organised and fairer that we want to go in this direction. My question to the Government, is the Government aware of it and are we as a society ready and does the Government do everything we should not do at the moment when it happens be prepared or would our economy not be ready for all of it? One more thing I will remember is the presentation of the promoter, and that is when he said that after the adoption of this Law would be a public debate in which the craftsmen, the masters, I am at the end of this text of the reasoning, it seems to me that he wrote that a working group in which the craftsmen, masters, etc. participated, etc., and I must admit, if they were all involved, I don't know why so many of them in these few days called me and pointed out to me some possible problems, why they had asked questions of punishment, if all this was discussed, a colleague was saying something about how much penalties they were for crafts, how much penalties for the economy, and we were more or less aware that we weren't the bearers of the whole process more or less they were the ones who were willing to do this. Now, let's give this law a little commendation. This law is for market surveillance and product conformity, which is good for all our citizens who buy on that market, which is theoretically good and for our economy if it is ready, the RAPEX system is something spoken by the promoter, I think it is good, that there is a common place within the EU, and I say, this common place ultimately and implies that it will be one system and I don't call it the Bad United States of Europe. Whether recognition of goods legally placed on the EU market will contribute to our economy, if it is ready, will, because of the market of 4 million, and now the last list shows that we are not even 4 million, suddenly we have a market of 400 million and something million, which should be positive for every economy ready to face such a challenge. A law like this and a system like this, in fact, who gets the most on their hands? It goes to the strongest of those who are the strongest and the most ready. My question is whether we are among them and whether the Government is doing everything to make sure our economy is among them and that is what the task is, practically, the Government, managing the processes. Then the law has some kind of, I say contact point, not some very important contact point, but it is again a link of HUB information. The Contact Point established in the Ministry of Economy has a role actually in facilitating communication between national economic bodies and the EU. Great, that's what we need, the question of whether or not our economy will take advantage of it. So, given this law, I don't think there's anything particularly controversial about this law. This Law represents what the EU does for the sake of the well-being of its citizens, including us, for the sake of the well-being of our economy in which we and our only question is whether we as a society are ready to answer that, I will say a request or a challenge. And that's the only thing this government should think about and when it starts to think about, then it will be quite clear to her that the delay of a year with the arrival of this before HS is actually a big problem because in those years we could coordinate with all the regulations and see what problems eventually occur and if they occur, those problems will be resolved until the entry into force of the Regulation, so that we will not be ready to deal with those who are our competitors today. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71200	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71201	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, a respected colleague, a respected colleague. The adoption of the Act on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment shall be carried out by an urgent procedure. We are convinced that this is due to a significant delay in harmonising with EU rules when it comes to consumers, but also to the competitiveness of the domestic industry. Namely, the Regulation of 2019, 1020 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on market surveillance and conformity of products came into force, as we have heard several times today, 16.7.2021. As visible from the title itself, it was published on 20 June 2019. This is another one in a series of regulations with which we are late, and it is interesting that there are currently 84 rules from different resolutions that need to be harmonised with EU legislation. This Act provides for the implementation of the Regulation in the section relating to the application of the RAPEX system in the case of products that pose a serious risk to faster exchange of official information on products that pose a risk to consumer health and safety. The space for improvement in this part, as regards the application of the product, certainly, in the RAPEX system, has. We are among the Member States with the least registrations of health-threatening products, and if we consider that most of the products reported are related to products for children, toys and the like, delays with the regulation of these regulations take place and indeed of particular importance and immediate threat to the most vulnerable. Furthermore, the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance published information on its official pages on the entry into force of that Regulation in 14.7.2021. A very unusual way of informing the public that has not preceded the harmonisation of the national legal framework. We have come to the situation that European rules which do not comply with existing rules at national level or may not apply. By simple language, certain imported goods under the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1607/2021 had to have valid technical documentation on compliance. The question arises whether, for imported goods from that date, the customs administration and controlled the technical documentation because the national legislation in that area was not harmonised. In addition, to whom it was not appropriate to prepare and adopt the Law much earlier, taking into account that the Regulation as we have said was published in June 2019 and has left much time to prepare the system until the entry into force of 16.07.2012. Another European Union Regulation in this area was published on 29 March 2019 and entered into force on 18 April 2019. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 515 The European Parliament and the Council on the mutual recognition of goods legally placed on the market in another Member State and repealing the 2008 Regulation. The relevant Regulation provides for the establishment and maintenance of contact points for products in the Member States of the European Union, and for cooperation and exchange of information in the context of the principle of mutual recognition. The harmonisation of the matter and this Regulation are also delayed. Our question is what were all the other institutions doing next to the Ministry, e.g. The Agency for the Protection of Competition is not yet known. And now, in the end, there's something else about the RAPEX system. It is a system as we have heard faster exchanges of official information on measures and actions on products that pose a risk to the health and risk of consumers. Under the General Product Safety Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation on the system of exchange of information on products that pose a risk to consumer health and safety, etc. RAPEX system. In this Act for products presenting a serious risk, the notification procedure shall be carried out through RAPEX in accordance with the regulation governing the system of rapid exchange of official notifications of products that pose a risk to the health and safety of consumers. It is not clear from this whether it is necessary to amend the General Product Safety Act as well as the Regulation adopted in order to comply with European Union rules. Almost all systems related to consumers and other stakeholders in the RAPEX system are also.../incomprehensible/... system. The latest amendments to the whole series of laws have further complicated and we assume they are still not fully in line with the rules of the European Union. The competences of individual institutions, e.g. Who are the contact points? Who's pulling products from the market? Who's conducting the proceedings? In fact, the ministry process itself now includes state inspectorate, but also some other institutions. It is high time for the Government to propose a legislative framework in time and prepare clear guidelines on the system with a view to informing consumers, but also domestic industries and entrepreneurs. We consider it necessary to take all measures to protect the local economy and production and consumers from imports of non-quality and technically non-compliant products. The SDP representative club will support this Act, but we express our dissatisfaction with this mode of work, because the Law but the whole system should have been prepared and harmonised much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71202	On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Davor Dretar, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71203	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Chairman, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, respected colleague, respected colleague. Just a few words or lines from the legal proposal itself. Therefore, the Law governing the way in which technical requirements for products, obligations of economic operators, the regulation of requirements that must be met by conformity assessment bodies, the point of contact for products, the Single Liaison Office, cross-border mutual assistance, inspection and infringement provisions shall be governed by this Act. It will also ensure that there is a high level of health and safety protection inside, as well as consumer protection, environment, public security, and other public interests. The implementation of Regulation No 765-2008 shall also be ensured in the section relating to the general principles of CE marking. The implementation of the EU Regulation 2019/515 will also be ensured, so that the internal market will be strengthened, by improving, by ensuring consistent and correct application of the principle of mutual recognition. Finally, this law should allow further strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy by preventing the placing of incompatible products on the market and by strengthening market surveillance, providing clearer, more transparent and more comprehensive rules to economic operators, strengthening compliance checks and promoting better cross-border cooperation between implementing bodies. We have to admit, it sounds very nice. It will also have a positive impact on the future development of legislation and technical infrastructure, which will also contribute to further development and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Sounds great, we have to admit. Without further ado, consumers should be protected in both Croatia and the entire European Union in particular in our country where consumers are still relatively poorly educated, or aware of their own rights, but of course let us not forget some obligations as customers, or as consumers. What I asked the esteemed secretary I will repeat once more. Let's do something, here's the Ministry, and let's get the D.A.'s department to carry out a few comprehensive promotional activities. Get into the media, get on TV, get on the newspaper, get on the radio. Let people hear what these legal changes bring and how they can do a little better and better to protect their rights. Of course, they won't be able to do the state inspectorate themselves that we know of and that there are too few people and that they just don't get to cover everything. Our awareness of our rights as a consumer is low. The fact is, just for a moment, we're going to expand this subject a little bit, that we're living in a civilization of quite irresponsibleness, in a culture of indifference. As consumers in this society, we buy without thinking, spend without thinking, and throw it worse without thinking. Here we should also mention the fact that this law should also be looked at through Internet trade. We know and only here are the fresh data came yesterday, for the first time in Croatia Internet trade will exceed one billion EUR. There are global players such as the famous Alibaba, Amazon, but also the Croatian e-bought company, which is certainly to welcome and, of course, a whole series of players with slightly smaller market shares. It is certainly necessary to ensure an absolute level of consistency. What was observed on my part within the public debate on these legal proposals was one very interesting proposal, namely authorised distributors should be legally obliged to open offices, representations on the territory of the Republic of Croatia or their business creation in the EU may sometimes create problems in which a customer buys something to say on-line, the item being delivered does not satisfy certain elements, so the customer wants to return it or advertise it in this case sometimes has to send goods to some other countries here is mentioned one precise case of a company that sells certain electronic components in case something goes wrong then that customer has to send it here in this precise case in Hungary, which of course only extends the time of advertising of products and, of course, can create some problems or customers may not succeed in achieving all their rights. As with many colleagues and colleagues, I will point out once more and that the penalties may be prescribed as too high especially for craftsmen. We are aware and respected Mr. Horvat has said that the competent inspectors on the ground will have an understanding. However, we feel once again that they should simply be given a framework within which they can act precisely, not that the inspectors of some of their discretionary rights decide, of course, to prescribe lows or the lowest possible amounts of penalties for possible violations. And finally, just as many colleagues and colleagues have mentioned, I will, of course, draw attention once again to the fact that we are here under Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly under which the alignment with European legislative practice is carried out by emergency parliamentary procedure, here in this case in emergency procedure. But they will allow the Honorable Chairman to leave the topic for just a second and tell everyone, and especially Croatian citizens to open the www.sabor.hr page and can easily click on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. Dear citizens and citizens of Croatia, open the free agenda of the Croatian Parliament, see how many points there are, debate on the situation in the judiciary, the prevention of conflicts of interest, the fight against corruption, the fight against pandemics and many other such points that require urgent debate here in the assembly and urgent debate in the Croatian public, unfortunately stand on this agenda, and we do not know, the question at all, who knows when they will ever come to debate here in front of the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71204	Thank you very much and thank you for the promotion of this page, and it allows you to see that those who have to come who have even been a little late in the law that here come the agenda. But now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the respected representative Marin Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71205	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, the esteemed Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, colleagues and colleagues, that I can't quite allow, but I will talk about the subject, I will not get out of the subject that my colleague Drele is this congratulating name, today is Saint Martin's first protector who was not a martyr, so here I call upon everyone to behave responsibly and if we drink to not drive and watch over each other, and all those who bear a name by this saint should be their happy name today. We have another EU directive that I would even say to myself that it is not bad, but it is a directive, I have already explained here to my colleagues and to the Croatian public, which means when we get a directive by emergency procedure. We can discuss it here and it is important that we discuss it and it is important that the Croatian public hears it, but that is the way it is for you, so we must do it for us. However, listening to the discussions of colleagues really here are colleagues here from the opposition and colleagues at the end of the ruling ones I think it would be good to have one educational show on Croatian television or somewhere, and then, don't laugh at fellow Martina, so I'm really serious, because there are really quality discussions and I think the citizens of the Republic have the right to know all the details, information and I would even say that to people quite interesting. Many have told me that they are following the Croatian Parliament and that they have begun to follow what is happening here and how we communicate, how we treat each other. And that's why I suggest that we really find a model, and it can always be found when we want something and then about important topics, about the important laws that we're making in this place, and they're from, so they directly affect the lives of the citizens of the Republic that people can just hear at the end of what the opposition says, what we keep in MOST, how they keep colleagues from other parties, how they keep colleagues from ruling and then let people be a little familiar with it. So, we heard, the directive was adopted in 2019, here we are in 2021, we would say, better ever than ever, therefore, the introduction of a goods directive meets the requirements that ensure a high level of protection of public interests such as health, safety in general, protection and safety at work, consumer protection, protection of the environment, which is also very important to us in the MOST club, public security and the protection of all other public interests protected by this legislation. It is important that imports of goods that have all the health security conditions, it is important that these goods really have all the quality, it is important that this real quality of goods does not deviate from what is prescribed because we know that sometimes we have a lot of problems and difficulties in the situation where they talk and say that quality is one and then citizens get something else, right, we have a lot of examples from our past not so long ago, so it is important that we have models and processes that care about quality, therefore products and the quality of goods that our citizens get. And that is why it is important to regulate all of this with legislation. It also needs to be open and say it's not a very common case, is it, that you wouldn't say we're criticizing something now, but it's happening. What is important to us at the MOST Club, we believe that inspection surveillance should be enhanced, so we think that surveillance should be strengthened, so in the delivery of the goods themselves, so that it is fully satisfied that the same goods have all the necessary conditions and qualities. So, if we care about the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we know it's important, so we know it's important, then we have to worry about it right here and here in this respect that all these products and goods are of quality. Where the owner considers or has reason to believe that the product is not in conformity with the provisions of the rules applicable to that product, including the requirements for periodic checks, the product must not be made available or used until compliance has been carried out. If I get this right, this is a new provision and it's good, so we like it in the MOST club. Products that can endanger human health should not be placed on the market, and there we have all kinds of untested products that do not have all the conditions in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, and we also like it, so in this bill, then it tells us that our State Inspectorate will now be more clearly coordinated and networked at EU level, and we believe that they will then be able to control goods more strongly, products coming from third countries, so across the borders of our EU, so and then enter our Republic. So, we'd like to make it out of sales, distribution, here's where we want to put the emphasis, to automatically withdraw all products that have any kind of illicit means, and to control that whole story very much. We are also concerned about the article of punishment and sanctions, and here we appeal to the ruling that it really is all well laid out and clear so that it would not happen that our craftsmen who are already loaded because they are also burdened with parafiscal inducements, with many other inducements, and someone who gets it by the head of 10,000 kn, may not know, put the key in the lock and go to pray to the dear God because there is nothing else left for him, so here we really appeal that this is well-assembled and that ultimately goes if I can express myself, an individual approach to our craftsmen. We heard the same from a colleague, Vuciilovic, I think you were talking about that article. 4. on the protection of health, regular checks on the use of products, so I also think that once again we put emphasis on it, and we want to encourage the ruling, we agree that there should be a choice, or a ban, so not only should someone come and determine on the place that the situation is not good, write down some punishment... No, so here we hold that the relevant should also have the power to orderly ban, anything that poses a danger to human health and a direct danger to the safety of people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues and colleagues, this is the position of the MOST club on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71206	Thank you very much. I will immediately ask you to stay here because you are the first and in an individual debate, so you can proceed immediately, please. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you very much. I will immediately ask you to stay here because you are the first and in an individual debate, so you can proceed immediately, please. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71208	Thank you, pals, so I don't have my cell phones on me, they didn't send mine from the club, but okay, well, just a few of these items that I have here, I'll do it again. ... Well, I'm always honest, so what do I do? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So how many topics do we have here, so can't a man go into them at all or can't pass them all, so I think that, I think the Croatian people know, so I'm a theologian and a philosopher by the profession, as I think, so I can't be able to spend my whole life studying for all the spectrum of all the topics from finance, the economy to everything, so I couldn't come here for a Parliament speaker and hold a quality debate because that's how it is but then the parties have their own clubs, they have people, so they have their own advice that they're preparing certain topics, then, of course, every representative has something that he loves, then gets in, and it's very deep inside, and then it's his theme, like my, I don't know, science, sport and young people, right there, and I know, and here, and here this. But, well, not to go into detail, I'm just going to sum up a little bit, first I'm going to congratulate on behalf of all Martins and Martins and invite people to watch their health and if they drink, not to drive, so that's the first one. So, as far as this directive is concerned, once again the health of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is important, it is important that all products that enter across our borders are controlled and that we care about the health of citizens and that we care about the nature of the environment, and that is why it is important that this directive that we bring to be in that direction, and that we all behave accordingly. It's also another accent. We want the relevant ones to have the possibility and bans wherever it shows that it is necessary if it is a danger, the use of equipment or other equipment that poses a threat to human health and safety. Here's so much from me, fellow Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71209	Here's a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71210	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Minister Miletic, I am pleased that in this initiative and the amendment that I have submitted, which I hope will respect and adopt, it may be a miracle, we will see, recognize the initiative means that we give these inspectors one option that refers to equipment that is already in use. And I'm really saying that from the position of someone who spent many years in the process industry. We know all the dangers present there if there is unwitting treatment, unless the equipment is maintained in accordance with the regulations. And I'm really not saying anything and I'm not implying there's anything, but the fact is that it can be and it's not bad that, after warning and certain mild measures, it's also a measure of banning the use of such equipment. Here's a thank you again for identifying my initiative and for supporting it in the vote, I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71211	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71212	We at the Mosta Club personally, here's what might be better if I speak for myself now, but I believe I speak for my colleagues at the Mosta Club we have no problem supporting all those good initiatives, amendments and suggestions and I personally don't care what side it comes from. So, if the rulings propose something that I think brings improvement to my Croatian people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia dead, I will raise my hand to it. So I don't care at all, so I can't think of anyone to ask. If SDP suggests something good, colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, who has very good same thinking if it's good for the Croatian people, so what kind of man would I be if I didn't raise my hand for it? So no, I absolutely don't care what anyone thinks about it. And also if I don't think something's right, then I won't raise my hand to it, will I? I live by my conscience, too, and I think that's good. So, fellow Members, I've been listening to you, the amendment is good, and I'm going to suggest to my colleagues that we raise our hand to him, and they're going to listen to it because that's how we work in community cooperation, and we're going to support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71213	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I join your congratulations to all Martins and Martins for their name day. And I also noticed that through your debate you somehow alluded that most of the non-compliant products found on the market come from third countries. I did some minor research as far as I could from different resources, and I was surprised at how many non-compliant products come from European countries in fact, by renowned companies, which are really dangerous to the health of our citizens, and sometimes they put their lives at risk. So I'm curious to know what you think should change within the control system, or to the state of affairs so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71215	Thank you, colleague Mariana Petir. I think that we should all be Croatia and the interests of our people and in whatever we do have national interests, and among national interests definitely the health of Croatian citizens. And then we need to keep an eye on what comes to us as you say, I didn't know it, it's great for information, and we need to watch out for health and all those products coming from the European Union. She's got a good app, I can't remember exactly what it's called. Here's what I'm commending you for. It is the food or, therefore, where a lot of notifications come out, information about all the products that have been withdrawn. So here I am speaking now to the Croatian public you can install. Really quite so up-to-date and then the data comes out about all the products that for some reason don't work. Is it? So that's good. But before that, I agree that we should have a clear system and control of all those products that cross the border and come to our people, citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71216	Next is the individual debate of Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71217	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It is difficult to be a parliamentary representative of general practice and to understand everything, so it is understood in all the amendments to the law and talk about everything with certainty and relevance if you want to talk like that. So, I kind of feel like it was very sweet of fellow Miletic when he said my people could just repeat that debate that he had. We have before us a law that is relatively simple. He's technically relatively simple. It is in line with the European Union directives. It is clear exactly what and how and how the form is satisfied no matter what I have discussed on behalf of the club, I have pointed out that emergency procedure that has been decided by the proposer. And as I said then, I can do it again now and it's not far because it's far, but because you're going too late and it's too late and then there's no choice. But let's get some content. So why do we even have a bunch of regulations that we make, we have a bunch of sublegal acts. What's it really for? Which of these ultimately benefits? Which one of these, what's that for? So here we are talking about a law that is closely related to consumer protection. So he is closely tied to the last consumer who is also his interest, and it is therefore important that we have this strengthening confidence that when a man buys something, he has confidence that what he bought is that way. So let's think a little bit about ours and I'm always giving an example of my mom living, who lives great, she's in great shape, she's doing great, she can be fooled by who she wants. She believes. The second, so the younger you are, the more doubt you have, you don't believe. But she, when she tells me, I say Mom, in the paper when she writes something, I say Mom, it's not true, she says in the paper. I say, Mom, believe me, it's not true. It says. Now imagine how she trusts the product she gets and why, to show at all why this is important, I always think, we're a small country, there's little of us. I always think it is extremely important to point out the example of large ones, when you first punish someone great, as it is, is therefore not an adequate example, but when Google was punished from EU level, it rang in the world. So when one big corporation that is, which does electronics, is punished for putting on the market devices that aren't at all, they're not allowed to be fixed at all, it's something that answers and makes sense. So, practice on the kid, and I refer to these some kind of breaking provisions, practice on the kid is always convenient, but you practice on the big one. As I was speaking on behalf of the club about a partial inspection, I'll speak now. Here in this law is an extremely large role of inspection, colleagues and colleagues. So no matter what you think about the inspection, the inspector has little. There are far too few of them, the question is, therefore, they must.../incomprehensible/..., the subject is education, things are so changing that what was worth yesterday is not worth today, and even less will be worth tomorrow. They need to be continuously educated. They have to be continuous, and then look, on the other hand, how much they're paid. Let's shed some light on this, let's finally say that people, if we want to get a quality fit, who's going to do what this law says, so, check the conformity, improve cross-border cooperation, strengthen market surveillance, provide transparency, that all sounds great, but let's come into real life and see who's going to do it, do we have enough people to work, let's ask ourselves that question. And there's really a key education, and the last thing I'm going to do is re-reference the covert identity of the inspector, I'm, I've never been an inspector, and I've always run like hell from incense, I've been doing one surveillance, I've been undercover 15 years ago with a colleague in Dubrovnik who no one should have known we were going there. We come to Neum at the border, with a car, of course, which is from the ministry and our customs officer, that is, not a customs officer but a police officer who watched the passports, says about you going to Dubrovnik for surveillance. So much for covert surveillance, I mean, in Croatia everything is known and it's a matter of secret surveillance, but this secret surveillance makes sense when it's on Internet portals and everything together, it sounds good, but it's convenient to know what it's really like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71218	Time. We have a replica, the first respected representative of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71219	Thank you, well-respected fellow Dark-Taritash. I think you've made a very nice point about the number of inspectors and their authority, but somehow the amount of work that's been given to them because there's a lot of talk in this law about the powers of the inspection bodies, and here I am going back to those elevators that I started this debate with. If the building inspectors are in charge of controlling the elevators, is there enough of them, here we are now, and we've added more power to this, which sounds very nice, building, so it's picking up, so it turns out like there's a lot of them, now imagine what they need to look at, what all the inspections should do, and the power plants might have 5, 50 or 4, we don't know, right? But those aren't big numbers. Do we even have enough people to do what we should do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71220	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71221	Thank you very much. My colleague Vucilović, I do somehow imagine that I know a lot about it in the construction inspection. I was in one part of my life, and I had, therefore, construction inspectors who were in charge of it. I was so mad at them, I was terrible at them, I thought we should do this or that, but they're too small. Let's be objective. So when you have the area, I don't know, can trap me again this Dubrovnik-Neretva County, they're dislocated and you have 2 inspectors for the area of the entire Dubrovnik-Neretva County. What can they do, let's be objective, do? Very little. Now, that's where we come up with a series of other topics. I really think the time has come for us to consider getting construction inspectors down to the local level, getting attached to the method of publishing. Permission, but that's another topic and it's not about this law. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71222	Next replica, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Mrak-Taritash. You mentioned your mother who believes everything that says on the product. I think she does this experiencedly because probably the washing machine she bought or the refrigerator still works, but that you go today to buy a washing machine or a refrigerator, the question is how long after the warranty expires that same device will work. So there's been a bit of a change in mindset, and apparently some producers have come up with creative ideas, so in that sense, it seems to me that it's an important topic that we might be thinking about for a future period and looking for solutions to how to come up with it because the fact that it's actually a premeditated scam, some product gets sick and dies before it's logical and what we're actually used to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71224	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71225	My colleague Petyr, that's right. So, of course, I always somehow try to mention some of the life's things for reasons because these laws aren't a dead letter on paper that someone's going to somewhere, we're going to bring them, someone's going to archive them. Under these laws, someone needs to act, and I always try to put it in the context of reality. Indeed, you used to be my mom when she bought her first washing machine, she worked for 20 years, and then she changed it not because she didn't work anymore, but because she said so I can't have what the neighbors say anymore, like, to joke, even though it's just a joke and today it's not like that, you're buying a device today, let's say TVs. TVs are a great example, you used to have a TV set, when it broke down a little bit, it was the most normal thing to go and you had a service for it, today it's not like that. Today when your TV breaks down, you neatly archive it to the right place in the recycling yard and go buy a new TV set, even those who fix it, say quit, it doesn't fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71226	Time. Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71227	Dear MPs, you mentioned surveillance, you mentioned inspection, it's very important, without it we can't even function because ultimately, it would be great to prevent it from being able to do otherwise, but then we would have different results but what you would like to draw attention to, I think it would be extremely important for us to establish a good system of notification and information about the mistakes that have occurred, or even the mistakes that have been made, especially for products that can cause major problems especially in the household, in the household, and of course we don't know who's going to use it now, that it will be older people, that will be younger people who can manage, who can afterwards, and someone who can call to help them with it. Such a system of intelligence is not a problem for those who are on E-Citizens, it is not a problem for those who have electronic communication, but we must inform and inform those who do not have it, it is very important to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71228	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71229	Thank you very much. So, indeed, this census will show what kind of relationship the population of the Republic of Croatia is, and we'll see how many really old people we have that live in, so it works, buys, participates in all kinds of things, what it does badly, and does badly, regardless of what it uses and smart phones, uses the Internet, uses it in a way that it reads a little bit, doesn't use it the way it is, and that's why the one that we have a plan, so we have a consumer protection plan. This consumer protection plan is extremely important, it is extremely important that we have a population that, therefore, these older ages know who they can address, and therefore these discussions are important. So, and these discussions are, we're listening to people who are at home, who have now turned HRT 4 or no matter what, and now they're watching what's being discussed, it's always convenient for them to have a little more fight. He says no one's had a fight today, but it's all important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71230	Time. Next replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71231	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have pointed out a lot of important things, namely, it is very important when any device, the product comes to the market to end consumers, that first, it does not deviate from what is prescribed by law and in the second line, in fact does not pose a danger to that end-user. Therefore, all economic operators in that distribution chain are subject to certain responsibilities, of course they can be under inspection and of course they can pay the penalty. Every grain has a weed, and so in that distribution chain, someone always finds someone who deliberately or unwittingly grinds. My question is, do you think there's enough education for all those stakeholders of that distribution chain, especially for these end-users, you mentioned, here's an example of this old population and people who actually don't use the Internet or read consumer rights, how do you actually make these legal provisions even more available to them and how do they actually know how to point out these mistakes and what is broken by law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71232	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71233	Thank you very much. So, as I started my debate that I am not a parliamentary representative of general practice, and I don't understand everything and in some discussions at all because I don't think that I should be involved in everything, but when it comes to the work of the economy and consumers, yes. In the Consumer Protection Act, we now have one provision that says that all units of local self-government must have some kind of point or place where consumers can get certain information. It started at one point, so the big cities had, and I think it's very important. I even gave myself once during the effort so they were some cell numbers so I got a nice cell phone, put it in your ear and wait for someone to call you. And then you already have those apps, let's say you're 22, so 18, then 16, and then you get a nice voice that says that nothing can solve for you, that you have to come personally or nothing, so these contact points are important where consumers can come for information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71234	Time. Next replica, reputed representative of Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71235	Thank you, Vice President. So, I'm interested in my colleagues somewhere, and you mentioned that since we don't have enough inspectors in all systems, that these inspectors aren't trained enough or don't care that they're regular updates, you told me by the Internet jargon, Yes, and with the Croatian jargon, but I think there's still a big problem somewhere. [[The Intruder Dark Taritaš: Croatian.]] So we don't have one stability, we change every little bit the way the inspector works again, whether they're in the ministries, whether they're in the State Inspectorate, so I think it's important that we have one goal, to set our parameters and not change every five minutes. How much do you think that affects these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71236	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71237	So it's all influencing. We have here, we're a young country, so we've been a state for 30 years, so we're not some old country, and then when you look at that period, how many times they've changed, we've had inspectors who were at the level of former municipalities that were 101 and with the city of Zagreb, 115, and then we put those inspectors at the state level, so the State Inspectorate was just connected to what was food control and everything else, the other inspectors in the resolution ministries, so now we've brought again that they're all the State Inspectorate and yet others. I always say the example of the city of Zagreb where the city was, so he had municipalities, so he had offices and now he's out again, and my neighbor when I ask her where I'm going says I'm going to the Medvesčak municipality that hasn't been since 95 years old. So that's what you're supposed to take care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71238	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71239	Dear Vice-President HS Mr. Sanader, respected counterparts of Anka Mrak Taritas, I would like to raise awareness of the role of inspectors to the Croatian public, so how much money these people are working for, how many of them they have and whether they can do their job quality, just one little digression, I talked to the Croatian police officers here on Mark's square, says the man in 2019 asked me not to retire, work for a little more than 5,000 kuna, so man for that money that St. Francis and if he had two credits and his children were hungry someone came to tour him under the table of St. Francis that God would forgive me if the thunder didn't hit me here he would be in danger of taking an apple. And what we as a state can do, for our inspectors, for the police to provide them with enough resources to simply prevent corruption and nepotism, right? What do you mean, here's what I'm saying now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71240	Thank you very much. So as long as they're underpaid there's always danger of corruption. I won't now, because it would absolutely be wrong to say any amount at this point, amounts are somewhat larger but they're far too small for the knowledge they're expected to have, for the experience they're expected to experience. I always refer to what I know, I know for building inspectors, they should have some field experience, they should pass the bit on some construction site before they do, they have to know the regulations, so they have to have experience, they have to know the regulations, and then they have to do one more job, come and get it, and so, not the building inspectors are just what we're experiencing for the demolition, an extremely important part of the construction inspection is the quality of the construction material that comes to our market especially at the time when we just got into the EU with neighbouring countries that weren't adequate, but now what they're not, therefore, they have to have a great experience and they're doing For small money. [[- Intruder... time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71241	Next debate, distinguished advocates Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71242	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Directors, MPs and MPs, I think that this legislation is extremely important for the reason that we had the opportunity to see the Reports and last year about the non-compliance of products found on the Croatian market, is that if I am not wrong, there were 303 dangerous products and the media reported a lot after the inspection found that such products included both toys and masks and clothing, shoes, electronic devices, cars and if we put ourselves in a position that your child has some favorite toy that he probably will not only play with but also put it in his mouth, on his skin, and that it contains some harmful metals or chemicals, that is indeed a serious problem. But there is at least one prejudice that seems to me that most of these products come from third countries or from one country that I am not going to name now, but it has proved to be not exactly true, especially when we talk about electronic devices and cars. So there have been cases that some reputable European companies have placed on the market cars that were not only a threat to the health of our citizens but also a threat to life which has shown in some cases, for example, that there is a possibility of self-inflation because these technical conditions and parameters were not well in line with the actual performance or condition of that product being used, there have been cases that, for example, an air pillow can be hit in a seat by a child if this seat is put on a European level, there have been different situations that have in fact shown in some way that there is a potential danger for those who use these products and that in this sense it is necessary to take certain measures, so it is good that this directive is adopted at European level, that we are in line with it, and that what I would like to say is always when we are discussing European directives that there is one prejudicipating that we are now and we cannot intervene in any part of which we are not, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, and in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, we are in fact, in fact, in fact, and in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, we have been able to be able to be able to be able to be able to use in the same. Therefore, I would like to extend this topic a little bit as I have already said in the replica and the quality of the product itself, products that are increasingly broken down, mostly fall within that spectrum of electronic devices, and somehow it is the impression that producers of these products are unfortunately doing so with premeditation, so the products are sometimes only lasting while they are being guaranteed. I thought at one point that maybe my understanding of the operation of my car that I used to have wasn't quite right because my light bulbs were constantly breaking and my car or those lights were so designed that you couldn't change them yourself. If you have to change the light bulbs every month, it really makes you doubt that something is wrong, so I checked other users of that car and gave them similar problems, they confirmed that they have this problem, so you're actually forced to drive the car every month into service to change the light bulbs which is usually a job that you can do at home, and it's not normal for your light bulbs to burn down just every month. You've also seen yourself and you've probably noticed on your cell phones that a new generation of cell phones is coming, so the design of your cell phone changes itself. Once we could change the battery ourselves, today here I can get harder and harder to reach the battery, it seems to me that sometimes these batteries are so glued that if you try to change them yourself, it will cause damage to the device itself and therefore somehow they can't take away the impression that it's something the manufacturer's intention is to do. A study published by Lamont, which was conducted in collaboration with European consumer centres, showed that washing machines were programmed to break down after a number of turns, TVs after several thousand hours, printers after printing a certain number of sites, and the Dutch consumer protection agency proved that as much as 84% of the android phone does not work with the latest software. So these are all some signals that we need to pay more attention to the adoption of future legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71243	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71244	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Marijana Petir, in the debate when I had you warned me that a lot of non-quality goods not only come from products and from the countries we are focused on, so we think here from China comes all that is wrong, but you said that a lot of things are wrong with our environment here, so I wonder if you can say something more concrete about it and what we can do as a state to preserve the citizens of the Republic and of such products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71245	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71246	Thank you very much, colleague Miletic, that I certainly would not like to put my finger on any of the manufacturers, but my car was manufactured in Europe, the cars that I was saying had a problem with airbags and children's seats also from us very close neighbouring countries. Also when we talk about some other mistakes that occurred on cars or on trucks it was also about some buses even transporting means more people were also producing in one Member State. This all indicates that we need such regulations to regulate the internal market, conformity of products in order to in fact prevent these products from having a negative impact on the public interest in the health of our citizens on the rights of consumers to the environment and on all those other segments that the Constitution needs to protect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71247	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71248	Dear MPs in your replica have mentioned before, and you have now mentioned again in your statement that most products come from Europe in fact which do not comply with standards and needs, so please if it is no problem to share with us information from which countries they come and what groups of products they are. That's the first thing. And second, in your discussion, you mentioned cars and mentioned mistakes on cars or problems that might arise and you mentioned cell phones. But the problem is that these problems have to be.../incomprehensible... much earlier because when something happens, when there's a problem with this pillow, it's already too late. So it should be done by someone in the production phase. And if it can be determined here by the inspectorate, very difficult. It's the same thing with the phone. If you bought a cell phone that can't receive software from the newest generation, you'll only find it when that software comes into the market and when you try to put the software up. So the problem is very big, I don't know how to solve it at all and which way to go about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71249	Thank you, dear colleague Pavic, so I said that I would not name those countries, it is easy to get that data through research and I did not say that there are more of these products from Europe. I just said that we have a prejudice that most of them come from third countries, and that we actually have a lot of such products on the European market that are produced in EU Member States and that it is important to pay attention because they can indeed be dangerous. I agree with you that there is a huge responsibility on the manufacturer because obviously when we talk about cars there have been some deviations in the production itself because that car does not correspond with its technical characteristics to what was actually written in his personal card, if we can say so, but it is also an additional responsibility to the producers themselves. And on the other hand, when we talk about products that kind of break down too soon because we've already talked about that if your mother bought a washing machine she might still be working today, and we're today when we're buying then the question of how long she'll have her working life. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71250	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71251	Dear colleague Petir, here is my intention to extend this debate a little bit as chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality I will ask you a question about the quality of the product in terms of the gender it is intended for. Namely, one of the most famous if not the most famous chains of clothing in which they buy almost all women has 2 departments, male and female. If you try to buy something simple and common in the women's department like a thick cotton shirt, the chances of finding something similar are almost nothing since women's suits are filled with synthetics. At the same time, if you climb upstairs and try to find the same in the men's department, you'll be much happier. And so I can only personally conclude that women are treated exclusively as consumables, they are sold unquality goods with the intention of throwing it away as soon as possible, and I will cynically reach out and that today they meet such narrow and short clothes as well for men that we can manage in their department, so I would ask you to comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71252	Thank you very much, colleague Selak Rasudiæ, quite certainly gender equality is one of the important topics to which more attention should be paid. I would say here that consumers or consumers themselves should give a certain signal by not buying these and such products. I agree with you because I noticed that it has indeed become more and more a problem to find quality clothes than natural materials. And if you find it, it costs a lot more because it's clearly the goal of some producers to produce something that's going to be quickly spent, and then it's going to be coming back to buy new products. Here I think the only answer that can be given is from consumers themselves not to buy such products. I'm afraid we can't do this with legislation or forbid someone to produce synthetics whatever they think of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71253	Next replica honoured representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71254	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Petir, here you can see from this debate how important and important this law really is, and I think this is what is to be done, and this law sets out how to prescribe all technical requirements for products, the obligations of economic operators, all penalties are prescribed. I also hope warmly, and we heard from the discussion of our former colleagues and colleagues that it really matters what they buy and who they buy from. Well, I've always felt the same way when we used to watch that Ariel laundry powder that wasn't from Germany, but that it came to us from another. I hope that now this Law will change something, however, and that more quality products will be available to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71255	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for your rep. So we are used to it, in fact, and we have somehow been more focused on food products, which have been determined to be inconsistencies, and then it has spread to the products that we use in the household because it has been found that there is really reasonable doubt that there is a different quality of product for the new and old Member States, or you have listed one detergent if you bought it in some classic shop in Croatia that there is one quality, if you bought it in a specialized store in Croatia or in the Member State where it is produced that it is then better quality. So this debate and the issue of consumer rights are increasingly expanding as I think it is good, because it means that decision-makers listen to citizens and their warnings. I could say that this is going slowly, but now that it's started, we see that it's expanding to all other products, and it seems to me that it's extremely important for consumers to have their own rights that we have to protect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71256	Time. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71257	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Petir, would return to that subject of devices that are deliberately produced, produced if they had a certain life span, and this lifetime of life is seen wonders often coincided with the time of guarantee. So when the guarantee goes beyond that, you can sit back and cry. What is important is this debate that we are talking about. But I think it has too little media space. So our media likes some other stuff and it takes up space. We have one show on one television that was about consumer protection, and I think it's very important that people realize that it's not the ones who can't change the light bulb in the car, they have bloody hands, they go to mechanics. If they weren't the ones who, when their TV broke down, could throw it away, that they did something, but that it was done on purpose. But it won't be the same until one of the big manufacturers, it's about big serious consumers getting serious punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71258	Thank you, colleague Dark Taritash. I agree that we should raise public awareness of these phenomena and their rights. And I think this debate today is extremely constructive because we're talking about the real problems that are happening. And as I first thought something was happening to me, until I actually talked to other people and realized that it was obviously a systemic mistake in a car that was deliberately made to make those lights burn, so there are other things. You're right there should be rigorous controls and rigorous penalties. I found one fact that in Italy, a verdict was made that two large multinational companies were punished for deliberately destroying their devices and forcing consumers to buy newer models. Is this case actually going to be some kind of signal now if we can tell others to correct and return to the framework of good practice we'll see. But in any case, we need to talk about it, to warn you. And I repeat, therefore, the directive is one framework. The European Union is also preparing an action plan for this issue of the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71259	The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71260	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Petir, some time ago, there was a significant story in the media about how single chargers would be used for mobile devices, for our pills, and for everything we use with a clear argument to make life easier for all of us, of course, but also to reduce electronic waste. I don't have any further information, and since you know where it's come from and if any of it ever happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71261	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71262	Thank you, colleagues of Grba-Bujevic. That's what we're talking about at European level. The European Union has announced an action plan it should have as a consequence of the adoption and legislative acts. I don't have this moment of information at what pace this is going on and if we could expect that legislative framework. But what we can do if we notice certain malformations or problems we can also act through some national instruments in that sense. This is not prohibited, of course, because it is always the goal of protecting the interests of our citizens. There I would touch further problems where you don't actually have any more or are reduced to a minimum workshop where you could fix your products that are broken, so here I would address it as one topic that you might be able to think together about the Ministry and the Chamber of crafts how to support these specialized workshops to continue with their work to be of service if we can say so at affordable prices for repairing the products of those who can be repaired.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71263	Time. Next individual debate, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71264	The Honorable Chairman, secretary and associate, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we have one law that affects both the protection of the market and the protection of the health of citizens and safety in the use of products and consumer protection, but we are not aware of it. If we went to see what this law was really about, what touching points he had with the other laws would actually be surprised. This is best seen in the sublegal acts that are stated, and are actually adopted under the Law on Standardization and concerning this Law. What bothers me a little is that I would appeal to the secretary of state and to all those who write the laws, and that's that it would be good if the law stated all the related laws. It would be easier for us all to follow. Today we had these few replicas that actually do not concern this Law, because they are defined in other laws, and that is hard to find. Why is it hard to find because there are few of us here who are lawyers and when we prepare for discussions in principle, we find it difficult to find information about related laws and related regulations. I therefore appeal to Mr. Secretary and to all those who write Legislative regulations, if possible, and I see that you have also cited here all those regulations and decisions that have been made under other laws, or under the Law on Standardization, and I do not think it would be difficult to state the dependence on other laws, because then we could also discuss differently and it would be simpler for us to prepare our discussions which are really and only about what is written in this Law. It is, of course, related to the article. 7 which states that this Act does not apply to the regulation of technical requirements and the implementation of conformity assessment procedures for products subject to the last laws. Now, if these last laws were mentioned, it would be much easier for us to follow it all together, because you also saw in the public debate that it was, there were several questions about some products, or regulation of certain items, and the answer was that it was all settled in paragraph 7 and in St. 7 that it would actually be regulated in other legal acts that had already been passed. There were several things said here today about inspection. I'd be here if you asked me to try to appeal, if that's possible to carry out preventive inspection. Of course we can't do all the products. It's impossible. What she had today, Petyr, her argument, can we now determine that there is an incorrect protective pillow on the car, we certainly can't. It can't even be our inspection, it's, it's someone else's responsibility. Whether we can determine that a cell phone and a device will not operate with a new operating system, we cannot determine until this operating system is placed on the market, until we try to install it on that device, therefore we have problems with it, but what can be determined would appeal if it is possible to translate it into prevention. I also tried to discuss criminal provisions with the secretary today. It always asks whether they are adequate in view of the amount of income of persons or legal persons or individuals we punish. If we punish a legal person who has several tens of millions of kunas with 50 thousand kunas or 15 thousand kunas, and with the same penalty, we punish a natural person who has an income of 100 000 kunas, I don't think it's the same, and that's why we should coordinate these penalties in some way and try not only in this Law, but also in other laws, to try to implement it in a way that the penalties of this are actually prescribed in percentages or in income or income. The best of incomes because later income depends on other factors, so that the amount of income would be an adequate indicator for the subsequent regulation of penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71265	Here's a few replicas. Time's up. The first is a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71266	Dear fellow Pavić, you can finish the thought, since I know what it's like to have a lot to say, and time goes by, and I'm going to rely on that lead and on what you said about the percentage, because we had a similar problem, so please comment when we talked about unfair trade practices. Then those entities that can afford it and which have been, where unfair commercial practices have been observed, exploit the system, write complaints etc., extend the payment of the fine itself, so that we cannot collect from them their error or come to an expected change so quickly while those who cannot afford it are actually the only ones that we can penalize. So it doesn't seem to me that this is your proposal, that it's a percentage without complete meaning, so I'm asking you to explain it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71267	Thank you very much. I'm glad you're paying attention to this because these unfair commercial practices are actually going to be big, why big? Big corporations, big companies have their own legal services and don't pay special lawyers, don't pay special services. If a small entrepreneur, if a craftsman wants to do something at the Court or in some way wants to justify himself through the legal system, he must pay for it. So he has to take the lawyer's office to do something to him, to do it after he's followed him, and it costs everything, and I'm afraid these little ones can't do it, and that's why I've said it before, I think it was the year when I said it was really important that these little craftsmen who actually live on these few kunas that they got than their whole family is working on that, in that craft, try to save them in some way and then take Total income that they have [[Intruder: Time.]] And share the percentage and write the punishment afterwards. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71268	The next replica is the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71269	Dear colleague Pavić. So as we often talk about the importance of domestic food and domestic production, I would like to ask you about the situations that Croatia has in recent years often had the situation of importing huge quantities of meat, let's say we had a problem with chicken and salmonella in the introduced, meaning it wasn't import because it was a Member State of the European Union that placed more meat on us and then Slovenia warned us about it, not domestic institutions but Slovenian institutions that we had this and that problem. We also have a parallel situation with veal that was not veal at all but horses but is presented in Croatia as such and sold in all these quantities that have arrived on our market. Is it important for you to strengthen our domestic institutions or should we rely on those at EU level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71270	The debate on this subject should be a special debate. I absolutely disagree with the current policy being implemented in the area of agriculture and agricultural production. They can't agree that we don't care who owns the land were given it by foreigners or by our people, they can't agree that whatever it is that farms in Croatia have foreigners or have our people, primarily because they say when we sell the big ones something and yet there's still something left in Croatia, there's nothing left, because a stranger on that land can plant and sow what he wants and when he has it, then he can sell it wherever he wants. And if this quality product will remain in Croatia, it certainly won't. That's what happened to you this year. We had a crop of wheat and what happened to you? We don't really have it, do we? The same case with farms, we have to make sure that they are our domestic producers, in this way we will strengthen our production, but we will strengthen our nature as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71271	Next replica honoured representative Andrea Maric
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71272	Thank you very much, dear colleague, I'm joining you for saying that we really need a little bit and these broader laws to make it easier to follow them. We have been insolent many times and because the Rules of Procedures, which the minister will bring up, which then we are not even discussing. But let's go back to this, this problem to make it less inconsistencies on the market, in the end, to protect consumers, you were talking about prevention. On the one hand, it is, of course, necessary to educate our end-users to recognize the inconsistencies of the malfunctions and so on, but, of course, to educate on the very spot of the manufacturer that he will be punished in the end line if he works past the law. Is there anything besides that education and these fines you mentioned, do you have anything else to mention in terms of prevention? I agree completely with these fines that it should be tied to a percentage because someone who does damage or all of their incomes is worth 200 thousand kuna and gets a fine of 50 thousand kuna, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71273	Here, I'll answer you in a few sentences, first I'll tell you, like this 5-6 years ago, I bought ice lamps, 3 same ice lamps, nice beautiful ice lamps that were 3 years old, guaranteed they were 3 years old. After 3 years and a week they all stopped working but it's interesting that one lamp was in use nonstop means it was lit every day several dozen times, and one was in the cottage and it was lit, how many, ten times a year, but after 3 years and a few weeks everything stopped. See, and that's what we need to warn about, and that's where we should be able to react. I didn't react because it was a price, it wasn't a very high price, on the one hand, I bought it online, and then until you find a distributor, until you find everyone else you need to find, who you're going to complain to is a really big problem. So it is very important to coordinate this part through the consumer information system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71274	Next replica, respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71275	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President, my dear colleague, for mentioning the work of the inspector, and this law introduces a single liaison office with the State Inspectorate which will coordinate all the necessary activities between the inspections of the products in question placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. We also see in the proposal that no additional means are provided for the implementation of this law so that all these additional transactions will be deployed to the existing frame. How do you think, in fact, how many inspectors have the capacity and how much do you think this will affect the inspector's further work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71276	In order for a man to be an inspector and to do a fair and correct, I mean, wrongly I said, sorry can honestly do always work, however, in order to carry out a job properly and to be qualified for this job should have very much knowledge from that particular area. We know that our inspectors have paid about $9,000 somewhere, and unless we introduce lifelong education for these inspectors, that for every new job that comes to the inspectorate special school, especially education, to go to seminars on a regular basis, to attend seminars in Europe, especially now with regard to these products coming from outside. We're not gonna have a good inspectorate. I wish all the happiness to the gentleman who is at the head of the inspectorate but known to everyone how it works. And it's not their fault. It's hard to get quality workforce, it's hard to keep this workforce, it's hard to work with them if they're really good quality and competent because they're going to ask for a really bigger salary and they're going to go very fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71277	The next debate is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Nadica Dreven Budinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71278	First, I would like to congratulate all Martins and Martins on the name of the day and like this, the proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance in accordance with Article. 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Law are passed by an urgent procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Republic of Croatia. This law regulates the way in which the technical requirements for products, obligations of economic operators, the regulation of requirements that must be met by conformity assessment bodies, the product contact point, the single liaison office and cross-border mutual assistance, as well as inspection and infringement provisions. The EU Office 2019/1020 applies to 70 EU directives or regulations in a harmonised field of EU legislation which regulates the conditions for placing on the market of different products, product groups, in view of safety requirements, impact on human and animal life, health protection and safety at work, consumer protection, environmental protection, public safety and the protection of all other public interests protected by those legislation. The final draft law was developed in 9 parts. We have the first part of the general provisions, the second part of the regulation of technical requirements for products, the third part of the obligation of economic operators, the fourth part of the body for assessment of consent must be met, part of the fifth point of contact for products, the sixth part of the single liaison office and cross-border mutual assistance, the seventh part of the inspection control, the eighth part of the infringement provision, and there are art. On 29 to 33, fines relating to manufacturers and authorised representatives are also prescribed for importers, distributors, service providers and the implementation of orders and owners and users. Improving the single market, so we have more opportunities for people and businesses. In accordance with this Regulation, the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council is also ensured. 765/2008 and amended by EU Regulation 2019/1020. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to prescribe rules on sanctions applicable to infringements of EU Regulation 2019/1020 and Union legislation imposing obligations on economic operators and to take all necessary measures to ensure their implementation in accordance with national law and to inform the European Commission by 16 October 2021. Compared to those mentioned in the non-compliant area of legislation in the goods sector, it is necessary to ensure the implementation of EU Regulation 2019/1020... improving the application of the principle of mutual recognition of goods legally placed on the market in another Member State and strengthening the role of the national contact point for products as a provider of information and communication between the authorities of the State, state administration and economic operators. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following that price, the justified adoption of the law by emergency procedure will support the adoption of the law by the HDZ Representatives Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71279	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71280	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think today's debate is one of the few debates that has passed without any major bumps, no provokings. I think we all figured out what the importance of this law is, and I think there's actually very little of us about this law since what's prescribed in the law is more or less fine. What we had to object to the secretary we objected to, this part is about penalties, one part is about inspectorial supervision, and everything else I think we should support, we end up harmonising with the EU, or with directives that are prescribed in the EU, and I don't think there should be any disagreement. What would be good for us is that all those acts that are being cited here are later agreed and that they will be later adopted to be passed before, because I think it is known that the law will be adopted so that it will be more quality and it would be easier for us to discuss it all together in advance, with what I said earlier in my debate, that all the laws that are connected or that depend on each other with this law, which are interrelated to this law. Why am I saying that? Because after that we would have a much better discussion, discussions would go in perhaps a completely different direction since we find it difficult to see what is contained in other laws. When it's written in an article. 7. that some requirements prescribed by other laws will not be discussed are difficult for us to find all those laws that are prescribed. We know about some laws, given that we've been discussing them here recently in our assembly, and we know what they're related to, we know that they're related to the protection of markets, consumers, citizens, security, so what we could link together. Let's say that exchange of digital content was extremely important and, and that's where it's contained when you're looking at actually this law is contained here. A part of it was mentioned by a colleague in her discussion when she said she was talking about android cell phones. However, everything we had to say we said, we would and we would like the laws to be passed earlier, given that the regulation has been in force for several months and that we respect it, and we could actually respect our law which is in accordance with this regulation, we could adopt these sublegal acts sooner so that we know what we will respect because, ultimately, when it is written inside, there are still some sublegal acts that the minister will bring, we do not know what it will be and what it will contain, so I appeal to both the secretary and all those who write the laws and who present these laws to us here and bring them to us here for discussion to act in this direction. As far as we're concerned, these provisions in law, I think we agree with them in principle, and we as a club will vote for that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71281	Thank you. This is the end and the debate is exhausted. I'm closing the debate. We'll continue when the conditions are met. I'd like to thank the Secretary of State for your cooperation. The next item is: -A proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 180. The proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic. Excuse me, Your Honor's Secretary of State, we have a request for a break, so hold on a second. Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasdic requests a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71288	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club because it is a very important law and legal amendments, which we cannot find an explanation in practice because in order to discuss these legal changes, we should first of all know what the situation is with the additives in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, these legal changes are going towards facilitating the use of additives. It is that they will no longer have to be entered in the register that has been our positive step, and has never been revived and that the penalties for certain offences will be reduced. At the same time if you open a website of the State Inspectorate, the Department of Sanitary Inspection and you want some information on the state of the additives in the Republic of Croatia you will find an empty page. While that inspection was still under the Ministry of Health then you could find brochures that talked about how to manage additives on the Croatian market, today none of it. Once there was an ice cream, did you have ice creams this summer when they were persistently withdrawn from the market precisely because of the use of illicit additives. There was once one black bread that had 43 ingredients instead of 4 ingredients, which is common for one bread. Research shows that 70% of Croatian citizens do not pay attention to E numbers when buying products, which means we are not aware enough of what they are even additives. And at a time like this, you're asking us to cut the fines, to cut the registration, and we can't find documents that will even tell us that everything is good on our market, and that's why these changes are justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71289	I approve of the break, and by the basis of the Rules of Procedure and the possibilities, we continue to work, so here I call on the Secretary of State to make it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Art. 9. The applicable Food additives, flavourings and food enzymes Act is prescribed for the application entities prior to placing on the market and use of food enzymes in food production, and entry into the register of enzymes. It is a national provision adopted for the purpose of collecting information on the use of food enzymes in the production, processing, preparation and processing of foods that are not binding under EU rules. This register has not been established so far and the full application of all provisions of the current law would increase the administrative burden on economic operators, taking into account that the establishment of that register has no added value in terms of greater food safety which is placed on the market and the proposed law is deleted from these provisions. The proposed law revised the infringement provisions in such a way that they are clear and defined. The amount of fines shall be adjusted to the severity of the offence committed, and in the case of certain offences which do not have a significant impact on the health and protection of the interests of the consumer, the amount of fines for legal persons, the persons responsible in the legal person and the natural person of the craftsman has been reduced and the principle of notification for certain offences committed by the legal person, the responsible person in the legal person and the natural person in the craftsman has been established, and the possibility of collecting the penalty at the place of the offence for certain offences committed by the legal person, the responsible person in the legal person and the natural person in the craft. The proposed law aims at administrative discharging economic operators in such a way as to remove from the applicable law the provisions on the obligation to apply before placing on the market and use food enzymes in food production, and the entry into the register of enzymes to remove unnecessary administrative procedures, and to define more clearly the infringement provisions, and to adapt the amount of fines to the severity of the infringements committed, taking into account the possible impact on the health and protection of consumer interests. We propose the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71291	Here we have a lot of replicas, the first respected representative is Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this is a law that is very attractive for interviewing shows such as "The Fifth Day" and certainly what you would agree with in the previous reaction of colleague Selak Rasdic is that people should be educated about additives, but the difference between additives, aromas and enzymes should be known. The flavours and enzymes are auxiliary substances and no one is removing the registry of additives, nor could they be abolished as an EU member state. Only enzymes and flavours are not listed in declared products. They are not necessarily listed in the declarations because they are excipients, so please do not mix this situation and these amendments to the laws relating to the abolition of the register of enzymes that have been envisaged, which other EU member states do not have, and exactly what you said about discharging the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71293	Answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71294	Well, I agree with you, counselor, Your Honor, Mr. Cellic, and there's no need for any response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71295	Okay. The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71296	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, March 2017 EU Regulation No 2017625 on official controls and other official activities ensuring the application of rules on food and food for animals, animal health and welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products has been published. This new Regulation as far as I am informed shall apply in parts, one part of 28 April 2017, part of the provisions of 28 April 2018, part of 14 December 2019 and only one small part of 29 April 2022. Unlike Croatia, many EU Member States have taken these provisions earlier to prepare a system of official controls for and inform the public on time. I asked you a piece of that question to the board, you said we weren't late because a lot of the provisions go from 12. In 2019, and that we actually did everything relevant to that regulation. So please confirm have we made all these legal changes that require this regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71297	Thank you, well-respected MPs, unfortunately we missed the topic since this law does not take over the regulation, the EU's delegated regulation on official controls, since it was adopted last year by the Law on Official Controls by the Ministry of Agriculture. Government of the Republic of Croatia and proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture. This law only points to, so this law does not transpose the regulation but points to the regulation and we are nowhere late with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71298	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71299	I see that colleagues from HDZ miss performances the most in 5 days obviously were big fans that I just discovered. So, let me remind you, we're talking about the Food Adjuvants Act, aromas and food enzymes, so no matter what this is about, 3 things, all 3 things have something in common. That is why it is a law they are talking about, which is that it is different things that serve to process and improve food. In that sense, my question is that we would go through with this sort of thing, or that we would break the enzyme register, and I'm curious why he didn't live at all because it sounds like a good idea, that's my first question. Second of all, what the state inspectorate does is why we don't have on its pages reports on sanitary inspection, and when we open the State Inspectorate's reports, we only find some tables. In order to discuss such things, we should have detailed information on the Croatian market, we do not find them, so at least you can say something about them here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71300	Here, thank you, Your Honor, I'm afraid I don't look at it for five days, and I don't know what it is, so I can't talk about it, but as far as this issue is concerned, the state inspectorate as such why it doesn't publish on the page, I don't know how to edit a website of the state inspectorate. So in the Republic of Croatia there are controls, there are official controls, there are bonds of these controls, there are sampling plans of these samples, and I really don't know we can warn them to put then, make certain changes on the official pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71301	Followed by a replica of respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71302	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State I would not enter into what are the properties and certain characteristics of different food additives, it is not my profession and I do not like to interfere with what is not my profession, but I am angry with the fact that there are also your ministry and you are not alone, unfortunately, not doing these sublegal acts according to what the law prescribes. We have such cases also in the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds, and here we see it now means that the register of enzymes, was important, irrelevant, irrelevant, if the law has prescribed that the register of enzymes must be done, I must really not understand why it is not done and why we are sitting here now sitting here by the laws which then sublegal acts should be passed, and then they are not adopted and the dots do not apply would say children, nothing to anyone, and now we will change that because you did not respect the law as we last passed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71303	Thank you very much, I must admit that with this, with this replica and right, means the law passed in 2013 before the EU's entry, probably someone thought it would be necessary as he wrote it, and then in practice.../incomprehensible/... the vision when we joined the EU that it was not necessary and it was seen that we would further complicate it and then it was now going to delete those provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71304	The next replica is the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71305	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, by proposing these amendments and supplementing the existing law, in particular Article 8, you shall amend Article 14. by introducing the principle of opportunity. Otherwise, the principle of opportunity is already quite broadly defined by the State Inspectorate Act itself, and you here foresee only one possible situation for applying the principle of opportunity, which is when the perpetrator first committed an offence or did not respect the provisions of the law. Why we derrogate the State Inspectorate Act and thus restrict its ability to work with the inspectors themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71306	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I wouldn't say we derrogate, derogate the law, so this proposal was harmonised and made according to the recommendations of the Ministry of Justice and Administration and in line with the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71307	Next replica, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71308	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, can we explain to the Croatian public whether I understood correctly, which is why we have you here, that in general the area of enzymes is out of the knowledge or let's say the controls of the authorities and whether there are any dangers or not. If something is produced in the EU or outside the EU, but so far has not been used in the EU, is it recorded or verified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71309	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So there is a European Food Safety Agency which registers all the enzymes and additives from others, so this is controlled throughout the EU and is detailedly prescribed and for this very reason it is not necessary that we do not need to have an additional national register.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71310	Followed by a replica of respected MPs, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71311	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, we have a 2013 law that has been amended and completed in 2018. The law introduces an obligation to enrol in the register of enzymes. Today, we have concluded that this is not an obligation imposed by the EU and we are giving up the enzyme register with an explanation that we have not established it. So I quoted exactly what you said in your explanation. I wonder what the idea was when it decided to register the enzyme, did she have any idea why he should be? This idea is clear to me today, so you haven't established so you don't need to, but why we say, why shouldn't Croatia have some added value, given that register of enzymes wouldn't be some extra value, given that the register of enzymes wouldn't be an indicator that Croatia is actually keeping a little more accounts, it seems to me that it's added value because it's not an obligation, does not mean that we can't have some higher standard, so please a nice answer... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71312	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We don't think it's added value, obviously it would be an additional burden on the economy that we're trying to lift.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71313	Next replica, reputed representative of Renata Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71314	Thank you, Vice President. You owe me a few answers this morning. So I'm interested in the price if we analyze the enzymes before placing the product on the market, how much does it cost? And then I'm curious to say that in the end I'm not 100% sure if there's an enzyme register in the EU that works, or if it's just additives and aromas? And the third thing that matters to me is how on the spot for punishment of additives, aromas, and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71315	On the spot, so first there was a question of prices, your prices are quiet,... Authorised laboratory, depending on the parameters that are all seen or seen and other things, pesticides,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Others think 300 to 3000 kn are some kind of market prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the crime at the scene is concerned, this applies to the article. 14 b of these amendments, if no risk analysis of the establishment of a control measure has been carried out, it shall be shown on the spot when the sanitary inspector, the State Inspectorate, is there, if no validation procedure has been carried out for food additives added in quantities of which the maximum quantity has not been established and if no annual plan has been drawn up... products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are certain things to be seen when the health inspector of the State Inspectorate comes to the scene, no need to cause it in the lab. As far as these registers are concerned, there are all three EU-level registers, only the third with enzymes is still being supplemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71316	And the last replica, the respected representative of Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71317	Thank you, Vice President. The Secretary of State, at European level, is under way to adopt or develop a unique methodology for the collection of information on food intake of additives and flavourings in all Member States. The unique methodology for Europe as a whole is very important because this will enable us to further protect the health of all of us, all of us EU members, and so will the Croats. What do we, as a state, expect from this methodology and do we actively participate in it, and will it actually contribute to what we are missing now so that we can follow a methodologically, or methodologically, process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71318	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, Croatia participates in all other working bodies, and we participate in working bodies and in the production of methodology, we believe that at Union level it will contribute to improving the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71319	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yes, the esteemed Renata Sablar Dračevac, president of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71320	I thank you, Vice President, distinguished secretary of state, dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 180. In the discussion, individual committee members expressed their concern about the abolition of the provisions on entry into the register of enzymes, thinking that the removal of the obligation to apply before placing food enzymes on the market and the use of food enzymes in food production would not reduce the rights of consumers, or that enzymatics would contribute to greater safety and health regularity of food, more so as to witness the growing withdrawal of certain food products for the markets. The proposer pointed out in this regard that currently at EU level in the process of producing a unique methodology for collecting information on food intake of additives and flavouring in all Member States that will serve to assess the risks associated with the consumption of certain additives and flavourings. After the debate was held, members of the board decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption_ Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Adjudications, aromas and Food Enzymes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71321	I'm opening a debate now. The first to discuss is the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. On their behalf, the esteemed representative, Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71322	... Vice-President, Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Therefore, the Food additives, flavourings and food enzymes Act lays down the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, official controls and methods of handling and reporting to the competent authorities and the European Commission as well as the obligations of official laboratories and food operators to implement EU rules governing the area of food additives, flavouring and food enzymes. By the same law, the legislator also prescribed the obligations to keep registers, registers and other administrative obligations that should have been on the back of the manufacturer, then those which place them on the market, but also the Ministry, as well as the associated Agency. The first question to be asked is, if the European Food Safety Authority is currently carrying out an assessment of the safety of food enzymes used in food and will be completed after the assessment of all food enzymes for which the applications have been submitted by the deadline referred to in Article 1(1). 17 Regulation 1332/2008 establish a list of food enzymes of the community, why not so long ago, so in 2018, we passed a law that we are now amending? In 2018, we were a member of the EU, and we have had the legislation that we are harmonising with today. Enzymes produced by the production or use of raw materials significantly different from those included in the risk assessment by the European Food Safety Authority shall also be subject to the obligation to assess by the European Food Safety Authority prior to placing on the market. The applicant's representative argues that the obligation to supply data on the use of enzymes on the Croatian market does not have added value and constitutes unnecessary administrative burden for both food business operators and the competent authority. This is the only part we can agree on, because the enzymes are as partially flavoured as they are still unexplored as a whole, they are still a risk that is otherwise little known. The consequences are not monitored or associated. In particular, those used to forge food are questionable. Food additives are substances added to food to improve texture, taste, smell or color, and usually have no energy value. They may belong to a group of preservatives, sweeteners, dyes, thickeners, stabilizers, and other compounds, and some of them pull many controversys behind them regarding their impact on human health. It is important to point out that additives should not be used to cover up errors in the process of production or to use forging quality for the purposes of consumer fraud, the use of additives in the production of basic foods or food consumed seasonally must be limited. The additives should not adversely affect the nutritional value of food and its ingredients. The additives should not adversely affect consumer health. Therefore, the role of food additives is not to provide additional nutritional value or to affect individual health, but only to improve some of the organoleptic properties of food such as texture, colour, smell, sustainability and others. With the development of many new food additives, certain controversys related to their impact on human health have been justified. This specifically applies to compounds that do not exist in nature and can react with some other compounds and create unexpected and harmful reactions. Many of these reactions are revealed only later after the additive has already been placed on the market because it was not provided for what it could react to. If such compounds are detected, all products containing them shall be removed from the market by an emergency procedure. It's an extremely important role here and our State Inspectorate. Some of the prominent additives used in the bakery industry are L-cystein and galate. L-cystein is an essential amino acid used to increase the stability and volume of the test. Its acquisition for industry needs has a negative impact on the environment due to acid use, and when added to food it may reduce the concentration of harmful compounds in it. However, although not used in the food industry at concentrations that are harmful, it has been shown that at higher concentrations it may interfere with some medicines, may increase susceptibility to monosodium glutamate, may increase homocysteine levels in the blood. Galats are antioxidants that prevent fat loss, and all are potential allergens and can cause gastric irritation in large quantities. Also, at higher concentrations they bind iron from the blood so that children can cause cyanosis and therefore should not be added to children’s food. The additives are added to meat and meat products to speed up production, expand supply, ensure product sustainability and remove possible contamination by pathogen microorganisms. Some see it through a positive prism, I don't. In particular, the meat industry, the advantage of additives, is for them, for example. The increase in the volume of the product thus lowers the price of the product itself and extends the supply of different types of foods. However, there are additives that due to uncontrolled use and consumption may lead to adverse effects on the health of the organism. Monosodium glutamate is one of the compounds that has been particularly poor lately. It is a biologically active compound that is isolated from the algae and used to enhance the taste in meals. Although added to food at minimum concentrations, some people are hypersensitive to it and cause headaches, dry mouth, increased sweating, sleepiness, joint pain. The studies were divided into the safety of monosodium glutamate. There are studies that link consumption to the development of obesity and metabolic syndrome, although many other studies still deny it. It was also said to cause neurological problems although it was later proven that it could not pass through the brain barrier, so it was denied. And lastly, I would like to point out that this Amendment and Supplement proposal does not introduce the principle of opportunity, as the Proposer claims, but rather limits itself. So the State Inspectorate Act, Art. The 73th century 1 sets out the possibilities when this can be applied in principle in 3 of these cases, and I will read them, so art. 73th century 1 of the State Inspectorate Act states that the procedure will not be initiated if the supervised legal or natural person during inspection, i.e. until the decision has been taken to remove, or has removed, irregularities and deficiencies identified in inspection control, and then, for identified irregularities, a solution and a supervised person has been made following the decision of the Inspectorate or has acted upon a solution before it has been carried out, and the third situation, so when the supervised person assumes, by means of a record, that within a certain period of time, an irregularity and deficiencies identified in an inspection for which no administrative measure has been imposed and the inspector determines that an infringement has been committed, and therefore, we have only one situation on the record, so Article 8. amends Article 14 of its paragraph 4 which states: a person authorised to carry official controls shall not submit the defendant's proposal or an infringement if the offence is committed to the offence referred to in paragraph one, sub-paragraph two, five and eight of the safety of this article has been established in accordance with Article. Well, I'd say that's quite a difference, so then I'm still left unclear why this proposal degrades and restricts the powers of the inspectors of the State Inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71323	Next is a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71324	My colleagues and colleagues are the two key intensities of these legal changes. One suspension of the enzyme register is the registration of enzymes which is interpreted as the administrative discharge of our shareholders who had to do so before, or it never came to life even though I interpret it as a good step where we went beyond what we needed in the framework of the EU directive to better establish our market and protect consumers. The second intensities of these legal changes are heading towards a change of fines. As explained above, the above-mentioned legislative amendments are to be made in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Article 7 9., in cases of certain infringements that do not have a significant impact on the health and protection of consumers' interests, therefore, it does not say that they have no influence but that they have no meaning, and the importance is now one category that we can discuss, the reduced amounts of fines for legal persons, the responsible persons in the legal person and the natural person of 10 craftsmen. So you're asking us here to translate this and simplify that regardless of what this case is about enzymes that are still unexplored or here additives and reducing the penalty to sort of reduce control. We answer your question is whether this request is justified and we cannot give it to you for a simple reason because the data that should be available to us which should otherwise be in good practice are in the light of the law, if not already there, then the right to access information that we like to talk about and not to relive in practice or for us, let alone for ordinary citizens, is again shown here as a problem rather than as a right. So, the health inspection page on the state inspectorate has nothing, I'll repeat, there's nothing, there's nothing, Google it and click, so even the photo space is left empty. It is currently operating the area, regarding the protection of human health, food safety, GMOs, water for human consumption, and not to mention. Earlier, while this was still under the Ministry of Health, we could find documents concerning monitoring food additives during 2017, then you have an interesting larger document that says something about the state of the additives in the Republic of Croatia and does not find serious problems. However, since it is only a certain part of the product that is controlled, an open question is always raised, on what basis have these subjects been chosen to control themselves and have we overlooked anything? This question is more important today than it was in previous years because what I was saying was that this problem, and the problem of nutrition is a problem for all Croatian citizens because we all consume it unlike some of the things that might otherwise be ideologically shared, is the issue of this Covid crisis which has greatly reduced that I do not say suspended normal controls. And that is something that is often pointed out and when we talk about what we could find during this summer and alarmed all the ice cream consumption, I am one of the more faithful, which the ice creams have repeatedly withdrawn from the Croatian market because of the use of certain additives, ethylene oxide in this case which, as such, should not be allowed. We have an explanation from the Ministry of Agriculture because this entire control of the additive is being conducted in cooperation with 3 ministries, the Ministry of Health, 3 institutions, the Ministry of Health and the State Inspectorate and the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, the reason was that often such cases occur and products are withdrawn from the market actually means that the system works well because I am able to detect products that should not be consumed. Of course, an uninvited observer and some of our logical fellow citizens would ask themselves the following, if you found it in so many products that you managed to control and we know that you can't control everything, which is with everything else in this case ice creams that you haven't been able to see, so how much of this problem is even present in our food. And this crisis that we have witnessed shows that we do not have enough control systems, not only at the level of Croatia but at the level of the entire European Union, that we can work more on it, because if we did not have cases of so many problematic products that we had to withdraw from the market that the system worked, these products would not have reached the final consumables and were subsequently withdrawn. That's what we all need to worry about and ask that question. And in order for that system to work, it's logical to assume that someone should be very hard to judge and violate them so that perhaps even great penalties, when we talk about additives are justified. If anyone does anything in this whole product-marketing process, it's not working properly. You're here asking us to take those penalties down. I cannot answer that question because we do not have any new information as to what the situation with additives on the Croatian market is, at the same time, by a large number of withdrawn products, we see that there are obviously problems and have not been solved before the products arrived at the final consumption or all of us. I'm really worried, and I don't know what kind of ice cream we're eating, what kind of bread we're eating here when we're talking about enzymes, first of all there are bakery products, what kind of bread we're eating, I'll remind you that we have often, almost 1/5 of our products that are made of frozen dough, we're very much imported, we're one of the largest, if not the largest consumables in the EU of bakery products, which can, of course, be linked to the problem of obesity that's quite expressed in the Republic, at the same time, the bread that normally has 4 ingredients, you can find on its 43 declarations, even 43 additives. That you think this is something that I'm saying in my head and unfounded, it's research conducted by certain journalists and asked questions about it and delivered the data to nutritionist Dragana Olujic. And she pointed out that, on this particular 43, it was unleavened seed bread, where as many as 43 additives were found. What's the problem? The problem is that the accelerated lifestyle and we can testify about it here given the work that we do makes us increasingly consumers of fast food and processed food, which is the food that contains the most additives in it. The research done by a student for the purposes of her degree's work has shown that as many as 70% of Croatian citizens, although most of them are aware that there are additives and are not happy about their use, she does not see it as an element that is crucial in the purchase of a particular product, nor does it affect whether to buy it. We can link this to an earlier survey that pointed to a devastating fact, which is that Croatians, unlike most of the EU, when they talk about food and buying, are not in the first plan of security, which should be that our material status is better or what we deserve than it is in our first price plan. Not all additives are dangerous. A large number of E numbers, and this is due to EU legislation is well marked and today our citizens can follow it. However, to go from being anything when it comes to such sensitive things as the diet that we all consume, in terms of control, at the moment of the COVID crisis, when cross problems prevent us from being more serious about everyday things, so here and the quality of food that we are almost no longer talking about, to go towards reducing mechanisms and controls in any way, without providing a clear analysis of the situation in the Croatian market at all, is not something that we can support as a club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71325	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71326	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with no associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to begin the presentation by a famous 16th century renaissance doctor. The paracelsus that said, "It's all poison, it's all medicine, it's both dose determined and it's actually hard if it's even possible to find a substance that wouldn't be poison or medicine." So what does this point to us? To the fact that the measure is the key in many things and when we talk about food additives, food additives, then it's really the key, and what exactly is it that we're talking about today when this proposal is changing and supplementing the law on the table, we're talking about? We are talking de facto about our lifestyle because food additives are actually used to prevent these foods during production, transport, design, processing, storage, we have a somewhat longer period available, to extend their duration, to prevent food failure, to ensure the uniformity of product quality and the availability of products throughout the year. It wasn't always like that, we all know. It used to be known exactly what you eat in the summer, what you eat in the winter, when it starts in the spring of some vegetables, etc., is it, we still see it in our markets, but when you come into the shopping chains that we're all kind of used to, and that we're spoiled, then it's normal for the tomatoes to have all year round, we're a little surprised that they have some kind of rubber flavor, but there are all year round, there's no vegetables, there's no fruit that's not all year round. And that's exactly what these additives provide for us, isn't it? So, the fact is that they provide us with this way of life that we are used to but also, it is necessary then to determine the potential adverse effect, to submit them to certain checks, to provide consumers with direct information about the food they buy and, in fact, what these labels mean. Here's my colleague, Selak Rasdic. She talked a little bit about these famous Es. Is that what we call them? So each one has its own number, and we have to ask ourselves a little bit, so why do we have every single piece of bread, every single cake has to have so many of these additives, and do we really have Slavonia and Baranja, who produce grains more than we need, do we really have to import so many frozen bakery products because in any shopping chain whatever you buy from a bakery product is probably frozen somewhere in Germany, in Austria, in France, and so it arrived, and only then it was roasted. It's a million-dollar question. It's not about this ministry, of course. It's about someone else, but it's facts. What is crucial is that the availability of additives has also enabled lower food prices. And here we come also to this standard of our life, which is about 65% of the EU average, with significant regional differences where Zagreb is on some 100% of the EU average, and Slavonia and Baranja may depend on 35-40 whether Osijek-Baranja County or one of these others, of these other 5 counties that are east of Zagreb, which we call Slavonia. And the fact is, because of this relatively low standard of living, we often reach out to products that are not as good as they should be and have a lot of these additives. So, in recent years there's been a little bit of this awareness of the harmfulness of additives of certain and the amount in which they are used and the amount in which we consume these additives in food and, in fact, they're causing certain harmful phenomena, allergic reactions, it's not so much, it's moving here as I found the data, somewhere from 0.01 to 0.26% to a certain number of people, and we're coming back to that extent at the beginning of my exposure, is not the same thing if you eat a bag of chips, for example. Or three bags. And these bad eating habits certainly affect the excessive intake of additives and the most risky group are children. We are somehow always the most sensitive to them, and we all know we need to eat healthy food etc., but we cannot escape the fact that they are still exposed to candy, snacks, candy that are really abundant in food additives, dyes, etc., and can cause certain syndromes such as hyperactivity and therefore consumer concerns arise, and it is necessary, indeed, that a very strict regulation related to food additives is necessary. Of course, I also have to mention that enzyme register that was already spoken of. As I said now is he supposed to, I don't need to, I don't know if we put him in law once, so I guess what the EU says shouldn't, let's sometimes be a little sharper than the EU. It does not mean that everything is from the EU, let us be a bright example so that the EU can take action from us. I'm saying it's not my profession, I'm not going to get into the metrics, but the fact is that this register of enzymes was prescribed and as a number of sublegal acts needed when we here in this high house adopt some law that has to be passed so the ministry doesn't have to ask ourselves what the reason is, right? And it's not exactly an explanation to me that it's not in Europe, so we don't need it, and now we're going to suddenly, we're going to take great care of our businessmen, and we want to relieve them, because suddenly there's some kind of desert concern, and that register is going to save them from this huge administration. I mean, I've worked in the real sector for 26 years, believe me, ha papers, regulations, documents, tax reports from that is, you just have people who work and now that one register of enzymes is going to make their business so much easier for them sounds a little unreal to me. That excuse is such a relief. It's not exactly what you know. It's some kind of justifiable, justifiable explanation. Because the fact is that this list of products that have only been withdrawn from the shelves in recent months, here's ice cream, cooking cream, sesame seeds, almonds, energy drinks, cinnamon, permanent milk, curcuma, butter, sausages, turkeys, figs, there's nothing, donuts from France. Why are donuts from France? I won't open the subject again, but the number of these cases really points to the need to tighten measures, not mitigation, but tightening. And once again, I'm just going to briefly point out that we have to regulate the labelling of these so-called so-called. healthy products that tag you put on everything and everything. Because among those who have been pulled off the shelves is a large number of these products that bear a label that de facto means absolutely nothing and we finally see that these products and are withdrawn from the shelves and they serve only for marketing purposes, in a way to fool consumers because obviously if they have been withdrawn they have not been but they do not satisfy a minimum of regularity, and they lead consumers astray, and yet all these products are sold at far higher prices than they are for products that are not so-called. organic bio-products. Therefore, we cannot support this, and we believe that inspection controls must be tightened, greater powers must be given to inspection services, in order to protect our consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71327	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, Honored representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71328	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The first reading of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Food Adjustments, flavours and food enzymes is before us. As soon as it's in one of the laws in the title of food, we all get a little boned up like that, we hear our ears, and we absolutely have some dilemmas about what's changing in that law, why we're going to change, what we want to supplement because we're aware that we're literally feeding on everything and everything. Indeed, we bring in all kinds of products, we don't really wonder what's in them, and then our lights, or alarms, go up like this this summer when we've heard about ice creams and what's going on with the ice creams, the lights are on when we see or when we hear that a product, it's a food product, it's pulling out of the market, and it's no surprise that we're very careful and that we absolutely doubt what this amendment and the addition of the law wants to achieve. When you read a little explanation of this change and supplement it then the explanation makes it clear that there are two reasons. One reason is to abolish the obligation, establish an enzyme register, and another reason is to revise the infringement provisions. Relatively simple, formally, absolutely connected a few articles, and when you look at the form, you can say, the form is satisfied. But when you get into content, then you have a questionnaire above your head. Therefore, the law adopted in 2013 was amended in 2018 for the reason of the establishment of the State Inspectorate, so the things that were related to the inspection had to be changed. And now you're changing the provisions that are related to the food enzymes. Let me, I'll read what food enzymes are, we often also discuss some things, and without that, let's shed some light on what it's about. These are proteins obtained by extraction from plants or animals or by fermentation from micro-organisms that can catalysed a specific biochemical reaction. It is used for technological purposes, in production, processing, preparation and processing of a wide range of food. It is mainly used in the bakery industry, for the production of fruit juices, wine and beer, as well as for the manufacture of cheese. And now, in 2013, when the Law was passed, by the provision of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 9 is a very simple provision, he says, notification of enzymes and says, before placing enzymes on the market and use in food production, food business entities are required to apply for the notification of enzymes in the enzyme register and then Article 2, the notification procedure in the register referred to in Article 1 of this Article, will be prescribed by the Minister responsible for health care. The first question is, what was the motive, what was the reason, when such a norm was put into the law in 2013? The second question, why did the register not form between 2013 and 2021? Why didn't the rule book come in? What was the motive for forgetting this regulation, was not brought forward, that today, I really do appreciate lightly, as it is said, the register so far has not been established, the administrative burden on economic operators would be increased, since the establishment of a register has no added value in terms of food safety, then it is then placed on the market, i.e. by law, to be deleted from this provision. So there was some motive in 2013 why it was said, it's called, so the head is called "Notification of Enzymes". It's not called "Enzyme Registration", it's called "Enzyme Listing", it's called "Notification of Enzymes". And now he says, it is not an obligation related to the EU directive. Why can't we in one segment say it's not an obligation, but we had it, we defined it, and we want to be better there. So I'm really reading this, and I gave that replica to the secretary of state, and I didn't get the answer. How do we know that, based on what, we are determining that this would increase the administrative burden of the economic operators? On what basis do we base it? Do we have any experience with any other registers or anything? So why do any changes and additions to the law have that head of reasoning? So in that head, in that opening part, you have an existing state and you have what you want to achieve and you have that special part that is related to financial obligations or what will be with the financial part of this Law. So, that someone, this, this explanation is unmistakable. So you can't say, there's no obligation at EU level, so it doesn't matter. Why hasn't the Regulation been adopted since 2013 in the established register? Because it's concluded that we don't need it, that we don't want it, that it sucks, and that we're not going to achieve anything, that there's another register, that there's some other record, that there's a bunch of records, and then on that team, that hill records cost so much, so much and so much, so this is another additional record and additional. If there were too many reasons, one would understand. I, I have to admit, I don't understand what the point was, but that's why I said "introductory," every time it comes to some kind of food and every law where we have food, we're suffocating ourselves because we know that we're all more unquality living together, we're eating more unquality, and we want to protect everyone around us. I don't see a step forward here, I see a step back, and in that sense there will be a position of our club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71329	Thank you very much. We will now return to our point and, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, will speak to the esteemed representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71331	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It should again be noted that a new EU Regulation was published in March 2017. 2017/625 EU Parliament and Council on official controls and other official activities ensuring the application of rules on food and feed for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection. Since this Regulation is also mentioned in this Act, which concerns the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, that is to say. It is also the fact that the new Regulation 2017/625 is applied gradually, part of the provisions of 28 April 2017, part of the provisions of 28 April 2018, part of 14 December 2019 and only one part of 29 April 2022. However, unlike Croatia, many EU Member States have taken these provisions earlier to prepare and inform the public about the system of official controls for new changes in time. It is about official food controls, and we are witnessing the numerous withdrawal of products from the market and poor consumer information. The Minister, or the Secretary of State, told us on the committee that we are not behind in harmonising this Regulation, that we have done these amendments all that the Regulation requires of us, but then address this problem to the Ministry of Agriculture, we have already repeatedly warned that we are late with the number of regulations and coordination with the EU, but all this is not accepted and ignored. In addition, the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council have been adopted by the European Parliament and of the Council. The EU's 882/2004 Parliament and the Council since 2004 concerning rules on food and food for animals, rules on animal health and welfare and this is no longer in force and it is good to do so in this article. The 10th century 3 we see in these amendments to the Law mentions that it is deleted. In addition, another law that is directly related to food safety and, in fact, this topic, concerning the Food Law, is also not in line with that EU legal framework in the field of official food control. There is a task for the Ministry of Agriculture to refer to the 2022 procedure, this should be done in the first quarter of 2022, however, when changes and additions will reach HS, it is unknown. But let's just go back a little bit to what is the objective of the proposed law. It is said that the administrative dispensation of economic operators is aimed at removing from the applicable law provisions on the obligation to apply before placing on the market and use of food enzymes in food production and enzymatic registers, thus eliminating unnecessary administrative procedures, that is, clarification. Any reduction in administrative discharge of economic operators in this difficult financial situation, and we hope that it includes both micro and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen are welcome. However, since the register of enzymes has not been established and it has been beautifully written since 2013 by the law. The 9th notification of the enzyme, the register, raises the question of how will this area be monitored and really monitored? Why was such a decision to establish a register in the first place if the EU regulations did not oblige us, and yet on the other hand why did we not resuscitate this positive step? The registration in the register would help improve food safety and health. As regards infringement provisions, their clearer definition is proposed, as well as the adjustment of fines to the severity of the offence committed, taking into account the possible impact on the health and protection of consumer interests. We hope that the proposal for these provisions is in line with the food supply chain from producer to consumer and that it does not benefit individual stakeholders. These doubts would be eliminated if there were a clear analysis of the financial impact of the infringements, at least the number of offences, the amount of penalties charged, the number of infringements in the proceedings, etc. For such important things before, we have suggested that such an analysis should be displayed, but we still haven't seen it. Amendments to Art. The 13th and 14th provide for a reduction in fines for violations of the law, with a reason that the proposed law is aimed at more clearly defining the infringement provisions and adapting the penalty to the severity of the infringement committed. Then so get into art. 13. Reduces the sentence to a legal person from 10,000 to 15,000 kuna to 5 to 10,000 kuna, as well as a natural person. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 14. reduces the fine to a Legal person from 10 to 15,000 kuna to 2 to 5,000 kuna and natural person from 10 to 15,000 kuna to 3 to 7,000 kuna. St. 4th and 5th of the Old Art. The 13th are being transferred to a new article. 14.a. and also reduce the penalties for violations at the place of initiation, for a legal person from 10,000 kuna to 2,500, and for a natural person there are the same 1,000 kuna left. What is really questionable is that all amounts of fines are reduced instead of increasing, which would indirectly reduce and protect consumers because they are a means of deterrence, especially those who gamble with consumer health for profit. EU Regulation 2017/625 introduces in its official controls the principle that the penalty should be in line with the infringement just so that those who do great penalties are not paid for it. For example. Infringer makes a profit of £200,000 through illicit action, and the maximum prescribed penalty is 50,000 kuna. The principle of appropriate proportionate penalties introduced by the EU is not reflected in these amendments to the law or is not seen for situations where the offence and its consequences are more difficult but only when it is easier. One of the offences for which penalties are reduced is the improper labelling of additives on the packaging of products that go to the consumer. That's for someone who's an example. allergic, and uses a product containing a problematic allergen that is not properly marked can be fatal. The current problem is also with the illicit presence of ethylene oxide in the E-410 additive, which has resulted in a full range of products being withdrawn from the market in recent months. At the very least, it is in some way irresponsible to reduce the power of the law as a deterrent if we see that there is a problem in the market. One technical error in the explanation is missing the word “will” with art. Third, seventh row, this article will be regulated, so make it right. The law then states that the food additives, aroma and food enzymes ministry regulates food safety policy and draws up guidelines for inspection surveillance plans, and the state inspectorate is actually planning monitoring based on a risk assessment, taking into account the Ministry's guidelines. And now we're interested in how many sanitary inspectors and veterinary inspectors who carry out inspections, inspections related to this law, how many controls have they spent in the last year and issued penalties and what additives were they talking about? We also don't know how many labs there are in the Republic of Croatia for analysis, and how many are sent to laboratories outside the Republic of Croatia? Then it's in Art. The 10th existing law states that, after the costs of the analyses carried out, the State Inspectorate shall bear, unless the analysis proves that the sample is incompatible in which case the costs are borne by the parties. Now, the question is, in some ways, whether the number of analyses could be saved and how much money is spent in the year because I was looking at the proposal for a half-yearly report and a proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, '23. And '24. And here it is seen that for the entire state inspectorate plan 2021, there was 354 million kuna, for 2022. 431 million, for 2023. 444 million, and for 2024. Four hundred and twenty-five million, how much of that goes for inspections on this surveillance, with this law? The answer to the e-consultation was then that currently at EU level in the process of developing a unique methodology for collecting information on food intake of additives and flavours in all Member States that will serve to assess the risks associated with consumption of certain additives and aromas, and this was explained to us on the board that there is a register, but is constantly being upgraded. But again, we point out that we were supposed to form this register that we introduced into the 2013 law. Furthermore, as regards the education of citizens and food safety controls, I will actually speak a little more in an individual debate. And I would also point out that given all of this that I have stated that in some way we are not going to fully support this law, we will not be completely against either, but hopefully, for the next time, all that different clubs have said will be respected and there will still be speeches in the individual debate, so that you will see at the vote how we will vote, and I am talking about the very education of citizens who definitely have to be aware of what kind of dangers they actually have in food and about how they are controlling me in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71332	A respected representative of Hrvoje Simic will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71333	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, fellow MPs, here is the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, which, as well as many laws so far, is actually presented, a single harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The existing Food additives, flavourings and food enzymes Act lays down the competent authorities, tasks of competent authorities, official controls, methods of handling and reporting competent authorities and the European Commission as well as the obligations of official laboratories and entities in the business of food for the implementation of EU rules governing the area of food additives, flavouring and food enzymes. In 2018, that law was just to implement the measure contained in the National Reform Programme for 2018 and to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment, or to implement measures to unite economic inspections in the newly established state inspectorate. The topic of this law, as mentioned, is food additives, food enzymes and flavours added to the diet. The flavours that we add to the diet can change the flavors or smells of the food itself. Food enzymes are proteins obtained by extraction from plants or animals or by fermentation from microorganisms that can catalyze a specific biochemical reaction. They are used for technological purposes in the production, processing, preparation and processing of a wide range of food. They are mainly used in the bakery industry, for the production of fruit juices, wine, beer, as well as for the manufacture of cheese. What are food additives? Food additives are substances that we add to foods during the production, transport, design, processing and storage of food. They are divided into dyes, preservatives, antioxidants, acidity regulators, thickeners, stabilisers, emulsifiers, pH regulators against clotting, flavour enhancers, antibiotics and additional chemicals. Fears are added to replace the natural color of foods, preservatives prevent the disarmament of microorganisms, antioxidants prevent oxidizing processes, emulsifiers are used to stabilise the mixture while stabilisers are used for stable food structures. Thrusters give a certain density, flavor enhancers improve the activity of the aroma, and acidity regulators maintain acidity to extend the deadlines as long as possible. Although most food additives are safe, some can be toxic or even carcinogenic. They are associated with migraines, allergies, asthma, obesity and increase, behavioural disorders in children. The adverse effect on health is primarily seen in children because the organism of the child is more sensitive, and additives can be easier to model the process of growth and development. Daily intakes in children are often more than permitted precisely because of a smaller mass index because daily allowed intake is calculated according to body weight. The proposed law revised the infringement provisions in a way that was more clearly defined. The amount of fines is adjusted to the severity of the offence committed, and in the case of certain offences which have no significant impact on the health and protection of consumer interests, the amounts of fines for legal persons, the responsible persons in the legal person and the natural person of the craftsman have been reduced. In any case, the proposed law aims at the administrative discharge of economic operators in such a way as to remove from the applicable law provisions concerning the application before the placing on the market and use of food enzymes in food production and the entry into the register of enzymes, thereby eliminating unnecessary administrative procedures. The aim of this law, or the proposal for this law, is to more clearly define all infringements and adapt the amount of fines to the severity of the offence committed, taking into account the possible impact on the health and protection of consumer interests. It is noteworthy that when adopting or voting this new law, no additional financial resources from the Republic of Croatia will be required. What we could see was public consultation, there were two remarks that I thought the applicant had given concrete answers in terms of adapting and harmonising to the current EU regulations and procedures. In any case, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Adjudications, flavours and food enzymes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71334	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and Renata Sablar Dračevac will speak to a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71335	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers of State, colleagues and colleagues, so this law harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. It is stated that the proposed law aims at administrative discharging economic operators in such a way as to delete from the applicable law the provisions on the obligation to apply before placing on the market, I have forgotten the mask, market and use of food enzymes in food production and the entry into the register of enzymes, thus eliminating unnecessary administrative procedures. At the board meeting, we received an explanation that the register exists in the EU and that the Republic of Croatia as a member can be used with it. But I think the problem is that the provisions of the food analysis are lifted before entering the market. The problem is not only in the order of additives, enzymes and aromas, the problem is also in the cumulative effect, i.e. the amount that we enter into the organism. So, I'm not sure that I'm well aware that this EU registry is fully operational, we're told that data is still being entered, but it's therefore important to know whether we can use it and how. And more importantly, we need to know why my provision to place a product on the market before it is placed on the market, to analyze the enzymes that have been applied there and to see what this is about. Why are we neglecting something so important and putting something good into the law? I think the Registrar is one of the upgrades we could use and it's too bad we're giving it up. So in the public debate, the question is, do you know how many additives there really are in the food, and is that a risk of excessive input? Who collects data on the entry of additives or those figures remain only as manufacturer documentation for the purpose of inspection of inspectors? So obviously there is a large amount of use of different additives, and we should know how much at the level of the year it is spent in the Republic of Croatia and what industry are the biggest consumers? It was already the most debated today on additives in bakery products that have been frequented, so you could say, overloaded with various additives. In my view, this provision reduces citizens' rights, i.e. consumers' rights, and we could certainly consider whether we should accept that provision. I must say, it amazes me how much it is, what is the effect of this Law when no one has gone into law enforcement since 2013, and this register has not been formed, and then I ask myself a question, what about some of the other laws that we have passed and who controls it or what happens after we have passed some law, what depends on whether it will start to apply, will it not start to apply? But it's something important, and it certainly needs to be done. For me, the fact that the European Food and Product Safety Agency assesses safety, gives me additional security in terms, however, every so much we get information that some products are not in line with the provisions that should be and withdraw from the market, but we are therefore lagging here. It's never been an initiative from us and it's always first revealed in some other countries, very often it's been with different groups of meat products, ice creams this summer, a whole wide range of different products produced. Where do these researches go? The secretary of state said that the price of research in laboratories is between 300 and 3000 kuna and if this is so important for the health of our citizens, then that price is not too high. However, these researches need to be done regularly, and we need to know what we're bringing in, what kind of supplies we're bringing in. It's working in two places, these are labs that are according to HZZ, but also some private labs. The Ministry says they're all, all these labs have credentials and we can trust them. There has been a change of jurisdiction, meaning from the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health and the veterinary inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture, on 1 January 2019 we come to the conclusion that this is taken over by the State Inspectorate. The question has been raised today, what are the revenues of our state inspectors, and what is the price of these penalties. So, we underpaid people who don't have enough education and prepare for a job that works, we send them to take extremely high sentences. It's not too high a penalty if it's about preserving human health, there's no high penalty, when your child takes in a bakery a product that can't be consumed, so no price for such a punishment is too high for me. So we've already pointed out 100 times where we have the most, where the most enzymes are used in the production, which is in the production of fruit juices, wine, beer, as well as for the production of cheese. Now, these are productions that very, very often we consume, children especially fruit juices, as well as cheese and of course, additives are the biggest problem in bakery products. So, the EU, or the European Food Safety Authority, is the competent authority for the implementation of joint approval procedures for additives and I say, that's good and I feel much safer there. The second goal, therefore, was to change it, i.e. to define more clearly the infringements and the heights of the fines and now, colleague Vukovic combined it with another law and practically we are taking away our inspectors' powers again. This also needs to be agreed on, and that must therefore be identical. We from the Social Democrats Club on the board voted with abstention. So this is a alignment with, with this law, with EU laws, but this is still a reduction in the rights of our citizens and I think that, and savings by me won't be much to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71336	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71337	Because our job is to advertise on many topics because here we pass laws that are crucial to the lives of all our citizens, and these are not only our citizens but also those who carry out different activities often ask us in the media what are the areas of our interests. So I would answer that question, so let's say this law. This is quite the law and the issue of consumer nutrition at all, so here now the additive is one of my interests which I think everyone needs to pay attention to because it concerns all of our citizens. And the issue of food production and food safety is a key issue that will shorten and simply condition our survival. I explained in the debate on behalf of the club the reasons why we can't support these changes. The basic reason certainly refers to the pandemic period and questionability of controls carried out in the correct manner during the pandemic. Just what the case in Croatia shows when a large number of illicit additives have been discovered in various ice creams. So before they were placed on the market, the controls were obviously not at a satisfactory level. In that sense, high punishment does not mean that you will punish someone very highly, but rather means that you will warn him not to commit crimes. And if these penalties were often repeated so they were too high for those who had to pay them, then they were justified again because there is obviously a problem that the law recognises, something that the law forbids, and which someone violates. If there's no problem with that, there's no need to bring it down. I think the logic here is clear. So now I'm going to deepen this story of additives to show why it's important to be careful. So Ivana Vinković Vrček and Dada Lerotić Croatian scientists who wrote a book about E numbers specifically warned about how turbulent and difficult it was to inform Croatian citizens about additives. And not only informing citizens as such, but I've already told you here on the basis of a study of one degree's work that no matter how much citizens are informed about additives today, they still don't pay enough attention to them, or they don't affect whether they're going to buy a product. So, let's say she gives a concrete example of our most famous candy producer where they openly attacked her to spread panic. So I'm talking here about the experience of a Croatian scientist who was published in a newspaper interview. And they told her that she would do anything to stop her scientific career if she kept spreading that information while she asked them, but why do you react to me like that, why don't you let me help you? For example, an interesting marketing trick would be that instead of artificial azo dyeing your candy, you paint them with an E101 additive that is actually vitamin B2. And they didn't respond to it, and later she found the same candy that was in the new coat, and it was written on it without artificial paints enriched with vitamins. So it's not easy to open up the questions of additives at all even if you're inside a professional scientific community you can be quite attacked if it doesn't go to the benefit of manufacturers, and they're always uncomfortable when they have to change something in the way they produce. That is why we need to be particularly careful when passing laws that will regulate the use of these same additives. The problem of bread and bakery products that most of all concern what we discussed, this second part of the enzyme is indeed an open public health issue in Croatia. On the one hand, because of obesity, on the other hand because of the excessive consumption of bread in which we predominate, or in a bakery in Europe. And since this is the product that is obviously our favorite issue of additives in it should be specifically opened. Here I have also cited a concrete example of nutritionist that tells you about 43 instead of 4 usual ingredients in one bread, so the question is whether it is bread at all. But what exactly is the goal of these additives? And that's where we get the real problem. To quote a listed nutritionist that you don't think I speak unfounded. Taste enhancers hinder us from being moderate in the application of quantity precisely because their chemical structure is such that they stick sharply into our delicious buds and stimulate parts of the brain for comfort. It's an unnatural way of choosing the amount we don't condition ourselves, but the additives make us do more, so they're gonna that condition the quantity, and then there we are according to obesity and all the other public health problems. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71338	We have, thank you we have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71339	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, so as soon as in one law there is something in the name of something related to nutrition and nutrition, and then we have, this is a relatively simple change but it opens up a series of problems. And especially if we don't get answers to questions that are. So those answers should be explained. Perhaps you, perhaps you, are not clear to me why, since 2013, we have an obligation to make some kind of regulation and to regulate something, and now in 2021, we are very easily getting rid of it. So the regulations that we are obliged to comply with, with which we are harmonising EU directives, talk about a minimum, does not talk about being a step further. And the ministry, or secretary of state, is going over it easily. It seems to me that it's a subject that needs to be discussed more than we face on a daily basis with a series of inscriptions where certain products are removed from the market. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71340	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71341	I agree that's a good question, colleague Mrak-Taritash. You know how we're always shocked by how we're too late to introduce control systems, and that's common in our Croatian laws. And then once you read our law, the control system may not be the most correct formulation for the enzyme register, but it can't be denied that it's something that makes it more transparent to know how many enzymes there are in our food market at all. And now all of a sudden we have this situation and we're reading in our law, and we've concluded that we don't need this, so that's too much, so we're going to take it away. Who can be satisfied with that? Is it with me spending a great deal of time and energy to explore what the current report on food additives in the Republic of Croatia is due to this ice cream case and everything else, to open up a website of sanitary inspection on the state inspectorate and find 750 times 500 spaces for a photo that is empty, and the rest of the contents of course do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71342	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71343	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, what you've been saying reminds me of the situation that we're proposing something as an opposition, and then by ruling it they refuse because it's ours, and then in some form they accept. How to educate citizens to take care of additives and to check ingredients in foods when we are actually at one end of consumerism, so light products, on the other hand we're actually most citizens are in an economically bad situation, so buying cheap and at the end of the day it's not really their idea to check where that food comes from, which are ingredients, is E this E that, means that there's some balance to achieve? The fact is that you need to educate the citizens, of course to prevent at all from putting something in a distribution chain that doesn't fit the regulations, but here's how some balance is achieved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71344	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71345	Yeah, it's processed food, which is more processed, it's more additives in it, and we're all here because of the fast and consumeristic lifestyle of life dependent on that processed food. And what I last told you before the conversation ended, this devastating fact that processed food makes us consume more processed foods because it's so designed to taste it, so we eat more than we should, so we have other health problems, something that we should all be worried about. How to help is a difficult issue because we have a problem with prices, and only then do we come to food safety. However, it is worth mentioning that in all matters of food control and healthy and quality food, we are coughing for the EU. For example, for many years there has been present in all supermarkets they departments with eco-food, food without additives and better quality food while there is something else strange about us, unusual, and what you have to ask for in order to get on the shelves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71346	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71347	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's how I've announced a little bit more about the education of citizens and how to carry out the security control of what we eat. Therefore, food additives, a simplified definition says that these are substances of a particular chemical composition that are added to food in the process of technological production and processing, with the aim of preserving the basic means of taste, smell and consistency itself. Of course not all additives are harmful, most are not, there are additives so-called. natural origin, natural colors, vitamins, fibers, enzymes, etc. And we actually know more than 3,500 compounds used in industry as additives. However, it is necessary to know exactly what additives are harmful, which are of natural origin, and which will not actually cause us any kind of health threat. It would be most ideal to fight these harmful additives by checking the list of ingredients in the foods we buy and then comparing them with the list of additives. Now who does it, who has the time at all, as I said in the replica, we live in fast times, people just look to be, most of it is, to be this cheaper food, some think light products are very healthy, and in fact light products don't have no sweeteners, no emulsifiers, no finished meals without a taste enhancer, etc., whatever some think they are very healthy foods. And now you should take care of all of those E numbers, as these many additives are marked, all of these additives are divided into several groups and which means they're marked by some categories with these E numbers. The additives definitely allow us today very high product safety in a technological sense, but as I said, some can also harm human health and therefore our citizens should be informed about which list exists and which actually additives are on that list. And now that you type into Google, you get a series of these E tags and the red color is the ones that should actually be avoided. But I'm saying, now how to educate citizens to take care of it, here's the title "Education of Citizens", says all of us should stick to the fridge, so the instructions on how to read labels with E numbers, so a detailed guide through the most dangerous additives in food, many of them are carcinogenic. Let's move on with another problem. Research has shown that exactly the food that is marked as organic, was healthy food is, in fact, the most common target of those who cheat with food. Most often there are reasons of economic nature because the one who cheats with food, decides to cheat with food, places food and label it as being, as a healthy, organic, and then actually charge it far more than some fruit that has been treated several times and has been sprayed several times and then actually thinking that we are buying healthy food, we are then double cheated. Let's just say a few words about who's in control and who's in charge. Now the answer to that question depends on who you ask. Controls in a small number of retail stores, depending on the division of competence, shall be carried out by veterinary, sanitary, agricultural inspectors of the State Inspectorate. And now these competent authorities take food samples according to national food monitoring plans, they control the work of food business operators or the credibility of the results presented, product analysis and then further control food safety. And now if, at any stage of production or the sale of food, there is some malfunction through the rapid alarm system for food and food for animals RASFF is trying, RASFF is a shortcut, trying to take measures to protect the consumer and then in practice it means that such a whole series of products from trade are withdrawn. So not only are the possible direct effects of food on human health taken into account but also the possible impact on future generations, animals and the environment should also be taken into account. Some kind of most valid answer who is responsible would be that in fact all in the manufacturing chain and, of course, the resolute bodies that need to carry out inspections. The EU seeks to reduce the number of producers worth cheating on, but of course the question is whether it is enough and whether such a reduction of penalties is the right path. Therefore, one who has been repeatedly caught doing something that harms people and is outside the law should be severely punished, and in the meantime, customers must be satisfied with the possibility of returning money and, in fact, with the existence of applications, that they themselves are affecting the reporting of food failures that are unfortunately going to be more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71348	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Simic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71349	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here you are today several times, as more colleagues mentioned just more and more frequent withdrawal of food products from the shelves of our shops. I believe that both you and I agree that it is not just a growing presence of some suspicious, unquality food but that it is precisely what you mentioned at the end of your debate, that it is both more stringent and more frequent application of the regulation that even through the system and through our regular or extraordinary inspection supervision, through the European Food Safety Authority system, or a fast alarm system related to food or animal food that these are nevertheless the results that, with more and more suspicious and worse to say such food, that the system of supervision is increasingly quality and improving. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71350	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71351	Thank you very much. So to agree, of course, the surveillance system is the one that needs to be monitored comprehensively, especially the one that I said was repetitive in breaking the law. Of course, there is also the importance of consumers themselves, to be as educated as possible, to monitor these labels more closely on the products themselves and to report such things. I've asked on the board, let's say, how is it that what we've witnessed in recent months that it turns out that more other countries have pointed out that supplies should be withdrawn from Croatia than the bodies themselves in Croatia. Well then, the answer was precisely in this fast food alarm system and this link between the Food Justice Agency, that whoever caught it first, then actually informs the entire EU. So it's good that there's this connection, but I say all institutions have to do their job and, of course, be, consumers have to be educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71352	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71353	In preparation for this subject I have already complained that I have failed to find a report of the sanitary inspection now that it is under the state inspectorate, and in this report of the State Inspectorate bar for 2019 you cannot find out anything at all. However, I found another report in 2017, not to say excavated what might be a more appropriate term when it comes to accessing information from state institutions at all and what we all need to be concerned about, and this is the Annual report on the work of the sanitary inspection for 2017 while it was still under the Ministry of Health then. And it states that the following categories of food, 20 energy drinks, container products 20, ornaments, dessert dressing 8. And now that I'm not counting, mostly they didn't find anything controversial there. And now you have 2017 where in those samples, I don't know by what criteria they've chosen is that enough, there was nothing controversial and you have 2021, so at least we read ice cream after ice cream in the media. We are currently in Covid's crisis, do you think it's connected or what else can we learn from that difference?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71354	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71355	Thank you very much. So this is how I agree with the fact that the availability of data, or the availability of data, is very minor and that in the debate and on behalf of the club, I was saying that we would actually like to see and hear the findings of the inspection, how many irregularities, how many penalties were there, how many more proceedings are in place. So I agree that these institutions are sneezing. In 2017, no, I can perhaps offer as a part of some explanation that this new regulation actually came into force in 2017, so here is the hope that more and more EU countries are joining these new regulations this year. Here, we have now decided in 2021 that this regulation is to be taken under some changes to the law, but the answer and what I said to my colleagues, so it turned out really bad in the media that other countries are suggesting that something was wrong and it was really the last few months, especially during the summer of the flood of information about what it wasn't, it wasn't right. But I believe that it is on the one hand greater supervision of institutions, on the other hand perhaps consumer awareness.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71356	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71357	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maric, so we have two topics today. Both topics have opened the same sort of debate on education and debate on the role and importance of inspection. So, this education that's important to our citizens because every time we react to some inscriptions in the media, the shelf moves ice cream, the shelves move certain products, they're really, our citizens and we're all too little educated together. I have to admit here, I'm connecting the role of the state, so an inspection which is the State Inspectorate and their role in the education of citizens. They should be much more and much more affirmative, it should be their task. It's not their job to just go around being mean and punishing, it's their education, so I'm a little interested in your attitude about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71358	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71359	Thank you very much. Well, you know my position since it's my favorite theme, like yours, that's where we sort of complement each other's debates and replicas. Yes, education is really important. Of course, it is important throughout the story and prevention, that not at all from the manufacturer to this distribution chain, to the situation for the consumer to be in danger, that there is either a product that can harm him for health, if it is food or technical products, devices, etc. The education certainly and here I agree, of course, that the state has this great role, is still too little education for our citizens and too little education and institutions, and in the extreme line, I think you also talked about education and inspectors and people who work at different levels of the distribution chain. Some of our citizens don't even look at what the product's due, you buy yogurt and you run into someone whose deadline has expired, it rarely happens, but it expired five days ago, so it's time to report it to the trader, right? They don't distinguish what it means best to or use a do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So education anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71360	The next replica of the respected representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71361	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, here's the thing I'm going to ask you once again, where you found this guide we should keep on the fridge, it's important to point out that people have it, and the other thing you would ask, maybe you've been watching, is mentioned today multiple times the price of products, and how our citizens buy exclusively at the price because of the very difficult situation in us. Is the number of additives and the amount of additives that I think is very little talking about the amount of additives, therefore related to the price of the product, i.e. vice-proportional? The cheaper it is, the more additive it is? Did you happen to notice something like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71362	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71363	Thank you very much. Well, I was preparing myself for this debate, so I typed in the education of the citizens of food safety, and then here you go, take out a few articles and then say this should all stick to the fridge, and then, speaking of e-numbers, I'd best avoid the following, and then you have a whole series of numbers that are listed, and then some are marked red, so you should totally avoid it. Here, it's been said before, I mentioned, so the light also produces and canned food, so it's all full of additives. The question now which of these numbers that are on that label, is on the product, more harmful. So now some average customer who comes into the store and sees, I don't know, on the product of 10 letters E, so he can't know that. Now, do you carry in your pocket that list of E letters, on the one hand perhaps at least the ones most often warn him, which are really red letters marked, it's easy, I say, heartburn, and on the other hand, what we're always saying, and that's control inspection and actually prevention. that things like that don't happen at all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71364	Thank you very much. He will now speak to the esteemed representative Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71365	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Today we mark St. Martin, the protector of France, as well as some Croatian cities such as Beli Manastir, Dugi Selo, is the protector of winemakers, winemakers, but also persons who have cured themselves and solved the problems of addiction. There are inconceivable alcoholic beverages without additives, enzymes and aromas, so I use the opportunity to invite those who will celebrate the Martins tonight, that if they consume alcoholic beverages, they do not sit behind the wheel because it will protect themselves and others. The law on food additives, flavours and food enzymes has been nominated for the last time in 2018 and through the whole text of the Law, Regulation 2017/625 of the EU Parliament relating to official controls which are very much mentioned in this Act. It is also very important for regulations, 3 orderly on food additives, flavours and food enzymes from 2008 which are incorporated into this Act. The Food Adjustments Regulation has 336 pages, last amended in 2017, and this scope speaks about how precise this area is today and which is discussed with law and which should, when we talk about consumer safety, and it is assumed that European consumers are the most protected and most formed, how important it is to educate citizens, therefore, as is the American Food and Drug Agency, so there is a European Food Safety Agency established in Parma in 2002 and which provides scientific advice, information on the existing and new risks associated with the food chain. Food additives, we have heard that these are substances that we add to foods during production, although most additives are safe, some may be toxic and even carcinogenic, these health risks have been mentioned here, I will only mention, regarding ADHD, although the American Food and Medicinal Products Agency leaves this issue open, however, the EU requires that colours may have certain adverse events, i.e. side effects that could reflect activity and attention in children, and this is required to state this. Already today, the book Dade Lerotić and Ivana Vinković Vrček, which hides behind the E-numbers, which is very useful for all those who want to know more about E numbers, and referring to the principle of caution, the Committee on the Environment and Public Health of the European Parliament said the authors to the cemetery of food additives to some of the application additives that can damage human health. Unfortunately, consumers do not know exactly what they eat when it comes to foods that they spend daily, such as bread and pastries, and not just fruit ice creams. I would say that in Croatia the fastest of the past years has opened bookshops and bakerys, for example in Italy very rarely you can find a bakery, which also speaks of enlightenment, but this price availability is in correlation with food safety. The use of additives is regulated in Croatia by the Food additives Regulation, and there is important measurement of this acceptable daily intake of additives and I will surely agree with most colleagues and colleagues who discussed today the need for controls and when talking about the withdrawal of these products was most often about the withdrawal of products that are not, cannot be bought only in Croatia but also in other EU countries. There are, of course, a number of reasoned discussions on how the quality of the same product differs in such countries as Poland and Croatia, unlike countries such as Germany and France, so the topic of food safety is a topic that is very current and worth discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71366	Thank you. We have more replicas, the respected representative Simic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71367	Dear fellow, and here we have repeatedly mentioned today, and we have seen this material for today's draft law that two remarks have been made on today's topic we are discussing, and this is also mentioned repeatedly in the debate, it is a question of monitoring the use of food additives or aromas, as well as whether or not the register of enzymes that has been discussed since 2004. I believe that we agree in thinking, here's exactly what the Proposer said, given that we are a member of the EU and we adapt the full legislation that is currently at EU level in the process of developing a unique methodology for the collection of information on food intake of additives and flavours, and that the European Food Safety Authority is also carrying out an assessment of the safety of food enzymes used in food, and that, after completion, Assessments of all enzymes [[Intruder: Thank you]] Mostly we'll give up all the materials we need. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71368	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Simic, therefore my guess is that this enzyme register was conceived in 2013. If we see therefore the situation now in place in the EU that more than 300 different food enzymes are applied, there is a difference although it is speculating, so far it is a level of speculation and possible harmfulness, so water can be open only depending on the quantity. But so far, there is no single EU list of these food enzymes, and they cannot be equated with additives that have been proven to be also potentially carcinogenic, but those enzymes are therefore not an integral part of finished products, these are substances used in the production process and that is why they are not listed in the declaration and why it is not necessary for these enzymes to be listed so far in the declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71370	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71371	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow, in today's debate, we are talking about additives, enzymes and aromas used in the food industry. Today it is unimaginable to have food products on the market that do not have E numbers. How do you assess the relationship between harmfulness and the benefits of additives and whether buying Croatian products, products from Slavonia from our small agricultural producers, is at least part of the answer to this question?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71372	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71373	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Maximchuk, most food additives are safe, but unfortunately some can also be toxic. A large number of additives used in the food industry are used because it allows faster and cheaper production, and thus makes more profit to the food industry. I think the answer to this question of yours could be "let's buy Croatian" because I am convinced that there are certainly no products on the declaration with 20 or 30 E numbers on the products produced on the OPGs in Slavonia where you come from. So, of course, organic farming food and organic production is more expensive, but also more cost-effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71374	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71375	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Celic, here today and at the beginning of the question to the proposer and during the debate you tried to explain that enzymes and additives are not the same thing and that there are some doubts that some people think, put them in the same basket and that they should know what are the characteristics of each other and what are the characteristics of others. What do you think was the reason he was still in 2013. In the Law on food additives, aromas and food enzymes, this law planned the establishment of an enzyme register, and is there even an EU list of food enzymes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71376	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Pocrnic Radosevic, there is currently no single EU list of permitted food enzymes. She was also in the plan, so I think that was one of the reasons why the enzyme register was then mentioned. They are even established as 3 basic conditions when a particular enzyme should come to that list so that the enzyme does not pose a health problem for the consumer, that there is a technological need and that its use does not lead the consumer into error. So, from 2011 to 2015 more than 300 food enzymes have been administered by different EU member states, but their evaluation requires a multi-annual period of time, so it has not given up on that list, but has simply not yet been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71378	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71379	Dear counterpart Celic, you've talked a lot about these direct health impacts, the carcinogenicity of certain compounds that arise and how it harms health, which is something that most often people associate with E numbers as such, and even unjustly they have this one Stigma in principle, regardless of not all of them, and the system is controlled, the EU is quite strict, even the EU by food control, perhaps even the predecessors. However, this indirect effect on health seems to me to be insufficiently spoken, and this is what I was trying to point out that simplified additives make you eat more of these nice soft foods like bread, and we know that we are in an invisible position after the consumption of bread and that our thickness is a serious problem, even when the lifestyle adds to it, then we see that we will find a difficult solution, so how would you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71380	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Selak Rasdic, you're absolutely right. So, there's this black list of additives that can't be used in food as different colours that have been thrown out, so let's say the amarant was thrown out of the food in 1976, but some countries still use it as a coloring machine for wine and caviar, different preservatives, I believe that when we all come to the store, it smells like a Tyrolean sausage, but maybe we buy it once or twice a year, and I should be particularly careful with children. So for the development of the child is a very important healthy diet and if the child, and unfortunately there are poor... group, they use a lot of food products with preservatives. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can have long-term consequences and what you're talking about is this indirect influence that's A sneaking character. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71382	Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71383	Thank you, Vice President. Now you've just repeated that there is no enzyme list still in the EU. Today we discussed it a lot on the board and received contradictory information. But what I'd like to ask you anyway, so here, except that you're erasing that register of enzymes, so the obligation to apply before you put on the market and use your food enzymes, means it's deleted, is that you really think it's not good that we know about the article, so I asked the price, which enzymes he used before we put it on the market, I think it's great and that we should certainly keep it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71384	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71385	Dear fellow Sablar-Dračevac, you mentioned these types of enzymes used in the beer industry, alcoholic, non-alcoholic beverages, in the cheese industry, in the food industry, so these are already enzymes used for many years and since there is no unique EU list, it is left to Member States, therefore to national legislation to regulate. There should somehow be more caution to some of the new enzymes to be used, which are not affirmed in the food industry and which in some ways must be regulated. Here it simply went to some administrative discharge so it wouldn't go into some hyper administrations with, say, yeast in the bakery industry that contains certain enzymes. Here, that's how I read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71386	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71387	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, the fact is that additives are all around us and we can hardly avoid them, but what we can do is define and educate ourselves about those who are most harmful and somehow try them and actually avoid wherever possible. As we all know about cosmetic products that parabenmethyl and paraben are not very good, so we should actually educate citizens and monosodium glutminate, about sodium nitrite, so the most harmful that they avoid products that contain them. In particular, this should be for those most vulnerable, so children, older people, sicker, pregnant women, etc. The general rule of some kind is that the bigger the declaration is, the more these supplements of harmful dishes, so maybe that's some kind of education. What do you think when a situation happens like we had during the summer, ethylene oxide, so you have concerned citizens, who should educate them whether it'll hurt one pregnant woman or not. We're not all doctors educated. We don't have enough skeletons. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71388	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71389	Dear colleagues Maric, although the parent board is ours, the Committee on Health and Social Policy concerning this law could be freely tied to the Ministry of Agriculture, because we are not just talking about health aspects. I think the Croatian Food Agency has a very important role to play here. I think you mentioned that flyer that has on, on the Internet that can be seen about E numbers. It is a very important education, yes, so the moment that you consumers get used to him watching when he expires, he also sees where the product is produced is that Croatia or another country, also related to additives. I think that with the education of citizens, with the education of consumers, you can do a lot of work to simply make those sneezy products that are with different colours as little as possible, but I'm saying that we're going to have that variable again. poverty, which then has a significant impact on the consumption of such products. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71390	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71391	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here, just a few final thoughts regarding these amendments to the law. How in 2017, when the EU parliament voted on the new law that we are actually talking to now, there have been reports like this. Therefore, the EU Commission is given broad powers to stop the sale and transport of risky food from the country in cases where a Member State cannot guarantee the safety of food produced on its territory. The new regulations are also good news for Croatian citizens because they will be more effective in preventing the situations we witnessed at the end of last year. Here is what our most active EU Parliamentarian, Biljana Borzana, said. We're here now, in 2021, so we finally decided after four years to make those legal changes. It was also said that the new rules on inspections at European level establish a simple, integrated and effective food safety control system and stricter veterinary and phytosanitary standards. Also, another novelty is the principle of inspection and control based on risk assessment. This is also mentioned in our Law, namely the monitoring plan, and it will be more frequent and thoroughr to control those food producers that have past violations of regulations, and it would be logical that those with minor problems, smaller problems with the law, will be regulated. For example, the logical example is that if you have 2 eggs farms, one of which has been closed multiple times and sanctioned, and the other has never had any problems, then it is less logical that the inspections are equally controlled, than in that monitoring plan it is necessary to prescribe that more frequent inspection is done to those who have done more avoidance of regulations or errors. The penalties must also be dissuasive to avoid situations where the maximum legal penalty for food fraud is less than the income of fraud because there have been cases where corrupt traders or producers have been paid to cheat on consumers because illegal earnings have been more than fines. Among other things, the regulation prescribes legal protection for whistles that report fraud and food safety injuries. So that was all said back then, in 2017, and now here we are bringing these legal changes where most of us have actually shown criticism that in some way and unjustly went to the replacement of certain penalties and the question is how dissuading it will be for those who decide to cheat the laws, or our consumers. We also stress that it is very important to educate everyone in this distribution chain, especially our citizens to recognise additives, or additives, food enzymes, especially additives that are on that red list of non-recommendable e-numbers, to be in foods, i.e. which are also harmful to health and that citizens themselves are in fact as much education as possible about themselves, those numbers that are harmful, but also about the correctness of health supplies. Also, it's very important that when it comes to the question of who's in control and who's responsible, it's not the ball that happens so that everyone, depending on who you ask, says, is not me as the manufacturer, but the trader, and the trader says, no, it's not my fault, it's the manufacturer's fault. So everyone in that distribution chain has their own responsibility, so here we hope that you in the Ministry will still accept these things you heard during today's debate, and that these legal changes will still be some extra consumer protection, even though we all raised some concerns together with certain provisions of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71392	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71393	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. When we talk about food enzymes, we're actually talking about proteins obtained by extraction from plants or animals or fermentation from microorganisms, which can catalyze, which is their basic task as enzymes, some specific biochemical reactions. Food enzymes are used for technological purposes in the production, processing, preparation and processing of a wide range of food products and their use has been increased in the bakery industry, fruit juices, wine and beer processing, as well as for the production of different types of cheeses. The additives, unlike enzymes, are effective substances added to the product in very small quantities, while in the food industry they contribute to the uniform quality of products and foodstuffs and allow for longer sustainability of foodstuffs. Food additives are not food but are added to foods during production or transport or processing, processing or storage. Adding food additives achieves the uniformity of the quality of the product, prolongs the duration of the food, so that it is actually prevented from breaking down. Food habits and human needs have changed according to technological and industrial developments throughout the past. The road from field to table in the past was much shorter since food was prepared and consumed at home, in a shorter period of time which significantly reduced the risk of food health. In modern society, the journey from field to table has been significantly extended, thus increasing the risk that food would lose its health. It is precisely the use of additives that reduces the risk, and the food retains the health value with all its nutritional properties. As regards this Act, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, it should primarily be noted that the proposal for a law is in line with the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia with the EU legislative framework. The law on food additives, flavourings and food enzymes lays down the tasks of official control and the way in which competent authorities are handled and, ultimately, the way in which competent authorities and the European Commission report. It also provides for the obligations of official laboratories as well as food business entities which are obliged to comply with EU rules governing the area of food additives, flavourings and food enzymes. As regards the amendments, in this present proposal, Article 9 of the current law provides that entities participating in the process of use and use of food enzymes shall have the obligation to apply them before the placing on the market and use of food enzymes in food production and have the obligation to enter the register of enzymes. It is recalled that the law was passed in 2013 and that no enzyme register has been established since then, not since one year or two days ago. In this regard, it is exclusively a national provision which is not part of the EU regulation and is therefore actually excluded from this draft law. One of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is administrative discharge as well as other forms of redundancies of entrepreneurs and economic operators on the labour market, and this is exactly what is proposed by these legislative amendments which will abolish unnecessary administrative procedures and increase focus on the economic activities of these entities. To emphasise that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ Club supports the government's proposal in relation to the first reading of the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71394	Thank you. The Honorable representative Marija Selak Rasdic will now speak on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71395	I don't know, and I always worry about how much we manage to interest the Croatian public in these topics, and these are the topics that everyone should think about when entering any trade. If this speaker is the right place to do so, I find it difficult to answer if the debate remains without echoes then it is obviously not because the problem is in us and we need to address the situation more clearly. When we talk about additives, I have to admit that for a long time, systematically, I have been following the issue of eco-production and even food available on our market in the field of my interests. In this sense, I am extremely pessimistic because as long as it is ecologically organic, the non-adjustable with a reduced amount of additives may even be more precise because it has ecological additives just can't have everything like artificial colours, as long as it's not ecologically a prerequisite for going out on the market, but it's just a label that can be more expensive for some consumers to charge more expensive, we'll be in a serious problem. And as long as we have food on the market as I would say now and overworked, we will also have those who consume and people will be punished for their social status. We may not be at risk here, if we're careful, we have stores that charge that well where we'll find better food. But what about the other Croatian citizens? I will always advocate that the paradigm should turn around and be an ecological prerequisite for going to the market, not whether something is ecological enough or not, whether there are some additives that aren't so good or not deciding the depth of our pocket. And that's the goal I believe we all have to pursue. As far as food additives are concerned, they primarily refer to processed foods. And I'm going to be pessimistic again. While I lived in England for a while, I was terribly confused by the full shelves of semi-certain food. So I knew what food was ready and I knew what food to cook, but half-safe food was something that was in those packages and it says I don't know for 10 minutes that it was finalized, it never got in my head, and I avoided them. It was hard to avoid because it's most shelves out there. It's like a real meal that's half-boiled. It hasn't come to life with us yet, but it will, because it's the style of a modern man's life. No one has time to cook anymore, and in the time that we can devote to cooking is also the answer to the problems with additives. The other thing I must conclude is this indirect impact of the additives on our health. Directly on the issue of carcinogenicity is as much and perhaps even unjustly sometimes at the level of gossip known, but this indirect where additives make us consume more of these delicious often pastry products, and affect the obesity and everything else is almost entirely unprocessed. What I am about to conclude is about these legal changes themselves, and it has already been said in my debate on behalf of the club, as well as in the discussions of other clubs. As long as we do not have a clear report on the situation of additives in the Croatian market, especially in the context of this crisis and the recent occurrences of ethylene oxide that can come to us through India in which it is not prohibited unlike some of our close European countries, as long as we do not know how this crisis has affected food control in Croatia and what is the situation with additives in Croatia, we cannot be responsible for discussing that we are going into legislative changes which, in principle, facilitate less control in what concerns the use of additives in the creation of food products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71396	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now, we're gonna take a short break for the ventilation, and I'll see you in 15 and 15 minutes. It's 3:06 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.20 HOURS]] The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, as well as by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. State Secretary, Honorable Dragan Jelenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71399	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, it is important to point out that the Central Insurance Register, or REGOS, has been shortened by the institution involved in the management and maintenance of the contribution register for compulsory pension insurance by insurance and selection and the change of the compulsory pension fund by the records of the contributions paid, and by collecting and controlling data by insurance undertakings for compulsory pension insurance. I remind you that the REGOS Act prescribes powers and tasks from the REGOS section which include, among other things, the connection of data on accounting contributions for pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings and pension insurance contributions on the basis of generation solidarity with data on corresponding payments. Employers of second-income payers i.e. the bonds report receipts, income tax and tax, and contributions to compulsory insurance, or a reduced JOPPD form, on which they demonstrate the contribution obligations for pension insurance on the basis of generational solidarity, etc. the first pension column collected for all workers, i.e. the recipient of the second income. The insurance company. Contributions shall be made to the personal identification number or OIB of the obligor in the total amount for all insurance undertakings. REGOS forms and JOPPD connects to contributions payments provided that data on the type of contribution of OIB obligors and tags are reported on the payment of identical data provided in the JOPPD forms. After that, the contributions paid shall be allocated to insurance undertakings. Officials often make mistakes when filling out payment orders by entering the wrong mark of the JOPPD form or by paying one payment, paying the debt declared in multiple forms and the JOPPD. As a result, the payment of contributions for the first pension column shall be recorded as unrelated. In order to connect unrelated forms and JOPPD to the payment of bonds, e-taxes are required to submit an application for the connection of unrelated JOPPD forms. However, one part of the debtors do not do so, and payments cannot be linked and deployed by insurance companies. It is important to stress that, since the introduction of the system, data collection has been pooled through the JOPPD form since 1 January 2014, up to today, around 850 million kunas of unrelated first pillar contributions and 0.53% of total contributions for the first pillar of pension insurance, resulting from the misfillment of the JOPPD form by the payer. The relevant REGOS Act regulates the integration of pension insurance contributions by the basis of individual capitalised savings with the JPY’s responsibilities under official duty without the consent of the payer from 1 July 2018, but not by linking the payment of pension insurance contributions with the foundation of generational solidarity, i.e. the first pillar. The unrelated payments of the second pillar of pension insurance on 30 September 2021 amount to around 367 million kuna, amounting to 0.39 of the total contributions of the second pillar. More precisely, the definition of the time-limit and the data-connection method, and the recording and reporting of related data and the schedule of unrelated payments for the second pillar without the consent of the payer shall be governed by the Regulation on the connection of the contribution data for compulsory pension insurance. As regards the adoption of this law, it was necessary to ensure technical preconditions and to comply with the tax administration. The Ministry of Finance has laid down, by the Regulation amending and supplementing the Income Tax Regulation, the integration under the official duty of all public duties under its jurisdiction with effect from 1 January 2022. This addition of the law will therefore coordinate the conduct of the REGOS and the tax administration, create a legal framework to address the problem of unrelated payments and contributions to the first pillar and even the rules for the integration of unrelated contributions to the first and second pension pillars. I would like to point out that the adoption of this law does not affect the exercise of the right of the insurance undertaking but only relieves the payment obligations of the additional administrative transactions for the settlement of unrelated payments. I thank you for your attention, and I urge you to adopt this bill that will further improve the process of connecting the payment of public fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71400	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71401	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, by proposing this, the addition of this Insurance Central Register Act provides that the REGOS is authorised without the consent of the payment obligor after the control of the contributions to implement the data connection and the schedule for insurance undertakings after the expiry of the period of 6 months from the date of the unconnected payment. It seems to me that this deadline is a little big for six months, is it possible for it to be shorter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71402	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71403	So we think it's a time limit that's normal, because in that time maybe some data can be collected and possibly even the user can figure out that he did something wrong, so then after six months it's done, but it's certainly the first reading, we have another reading, so we can eventually think about that part of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71404	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71405	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State Jelic, I believe that this bill is good because it certainly affects the system of funding management for the first and second pillars of pension insurance and raises the whole system to a higher level more comprehensively than you said. Now, since orientation and financial literacy are generally at a very low level and since 1.1.2019, the Ministry of Labour has legally prescribed the obligation to compulsory pension funds to further invest in financial literacy and promote it. I think it should be said here that it would be good for you to say what Regos did in this sense because in this year, 4 pension information centres in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split were opened, so that you can inform us about what the MIC's goal is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71406	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71407	Thank you well-respected MPs, that you are right to mean to me both as a government and the Ministry of Labour, of course and Regos as our institution we have realized that unfortunately it is financial, and, unfortunately, a very low-level pension literacy, it best shows that only 3.5 users or payers in the second pillar in the first election choose themselves, and everything else is automatically transferred. So that means that people don't get informed about a potential of 4 mandatory pension funds, about model A, model B, model C, so through so-called. pension information centres that are part of the Project My Pensions, people will be able to come to the site or via the Internet or by calling to inform themselves about all the advantages of payment in the second pillar, payments in model A, model B, model C or in one of the 4 mandatory pension funds and eventually have a better pension at the end. Through this project, you will still be able to see in the future through the web what your future pension will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71408	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71409	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the subject of today's addition to the Insurance Central Register Act is unrelated to pension insurance payments based on intergenerational solidarity, meaning the first pillar. So these payments are in a temporary account, there are about 700 million kuna, but that's at the same time 0.55% of all payments of these contributions. Do you think that the existing way of recording contributions through JOPPD is a good way since it was introduced even in 2014 as a simpler way and even then replaced 6 of the forms that had previously been filled out. Now we have one unique form of JOPPD and where they are shown means total received per taxpayer. Could these unrelated payments be considered in some way and a statistical error that needs to be corrected at the moment because it is still a large amount of money And the pattern itself is... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71410	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71411	Thank you well-respected MPs, that you are right, the JOPPD form has made it very easy for us to record tax taxes, salaries and everything that means the employer pays for his workers, of course, and for himself it's only about the independent activities of craftsmen and farmers and others and means in.../incomprehensible/... here's for the second pension column how you heard you automatically connect payments that are very important because they are recorded in your personal account and that money is fertilized meaning with the work of mandatory pension funds so that it is important that they be registered as soon as possible. We plan this, of course, with this first pillar which, as I said, does not affect taxpayers means they will get their pension regardless of whether it is registered or not, but we do not want those 800 million kunas to be in some account unsettled, but that ultimately they will be allocated to all taxpayers for their pensions so that we know that this money is somehow paid for them, and this is important for that small part of the craftsmen and all of whom, however, are affected by pensions in connection with the pension contributions paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71412	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71413	Thank you, Vice President. This is how my question relates to the fact that it is evident that nearly 700 million kuna of unrelated contributions have been recorded in the period from 1 January 2014. Indeed, there have been difficulties in practice regarding unconnected payments, and this has led to a real difficulty in achieving the rights of citizens. Would you like to explain to us what the consequences of the work were, and why this has not been considered before? Why now that this problem has already been known to exist for so many years?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71414	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71415	Thank you very much. An esteemed representative that, since 2104, here as you could hear about 800 million kuna is on the bill means unrelated contributions. There is no difficulty except here as I have said means they alone, which they independently pay their own, their pensions such as craftsmen and possibly farmers then if they are not deployed to their account then they may have problems. We first saw it at the second pillar, we immediately settled it in 2018. However, it was then shown that the first pillar was not the best solution, but as I said in the opening presentation we should have waited for the Ministry of Finance since they were eventually, all of this was arranged and through them, it was through them, and a reckoning was carried out. We've been waiting for them to solve their meanings of software programs and all that and when that was here with this regulation we've been prepared and here's why we're going to change this law. I'm afraid we couldn't do it at the same time because technically it wasn't possible to pass a law that maybe couldn't be implemented, so we waited a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71416	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71417	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, the one who has not worked in the public administration does not know how important the system of payment accounts is, in this way, actually channeling payment for each individual, and especially here when it comes to the pension or health system, in this case, pension and how important it is that certain rights arise. Indeed, this is very good because every payment that is not properly distributed is also problematic for those of you who run it, and that is why it is very important that you get this very power to clean it up qualityly, we say, and that this is how it is recorded in the right account for each individual user.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71418	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71419	Thank you very much. Well, I don't have much, but here's what I can say to a respected representative that he's right, so with the JOPPD form, we've made it easier to pay the salaries to the taxpayers. So they were able to pay one salary for all of their employees, and then it turned out that in, not that schedule, it creates problems and this, with this last change, we're making order in the system and there should be more unconnected payments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71420	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71421	Thank you very much. Respected State Secretarys for Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Regulation is prescribed to connect according to the official duty of public administration and it is this regulation that allowed us to supplement the Insurance Central Register Act. Since we have a lot of unrelated contributions to pension insurance for the first pillar of these amendments to the law, we believe that such failures and resolutions will be made. Who do you think is going to unload these additions to the system?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71422	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71423	Well, thank you very much. Well, of course, the most will be disbursed bodies in the system like REGOS, as is the Ministry of Labour and of course the Ministry of Finance is not going to be that money that I like to say floating in the air and standing about 800 million kunas in some special account but it will be allocated to taxpayers' accounts and then the exact power will be used for those purposes for which it was used. So more or less the system will profit the most from this, but of course the taxpayers like I said, especially those who pay their own pension contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71424	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71425	Thank you. Now, you said this would allow some order to be introduced into the first pillar, but in the discussion on the Labour Committee, you also mentioned that in the second pillar of unrelated data it was 0.39%, so why is that so if it was arranged in the second column? And I'm curious about the broader question, why is it very often that the number of employees is listed as the number of insurance workers, do you think that the number of employees is really equivalent to the number of insurance workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71426	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71427	Thank you very much. I'll be on my way from the end. Yeah, so we've been following up on insurance statistics lately or more, so more or less everybody's paying, so almost everyone's paying off and registered with HZMO as payers and insurance companies, and we count them as employees, so we think it's a real number, so that's all in the business sector, the economy, the public administration and everything, so all those who are employed and registered, means HZMO. Yes, and this number that you mentioned for the second pillar seems big, but let's be realistic now in the last year and a half of the day we've had since 2019 we've introduced measures to preserve jobs where HZZ has taken over the payment of those 5% of the second pillars for all those who have used the measures, and you've heard there's about 700,000 workers and there's been a little, little problem with automatic connection, but we're going to solve it in the next few months, here it's all coming apart, so that's one of the main reasons for these 300 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71428	The Honorable representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71429	Dear Secretary of State, I am otherwise known to rarely praise a law or some solution, but in a lot of debate I have said so far where there were 1, 2, 3, 5 regulations envisioned a certain law to be passed within a certain period of 3 months, within 6 months. There was one thing here, so I'd like you to do what you said on this board to repeat it in front of your own public. Here is the deadline for the adoption of the rulebook for 30 days, and you said it would be within a week after, after this adoption of the law in the second reading, which is essentially worth every commendation. No, it's not a heavy rule, but as far as the relationship to this home is concerned, according to the laws, I think it's a quality shift, so give us a heads-up and stick to these deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71430	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71431	Thank you very much, Your Honor, thank you for your commendation. It's nice to hear. Yes, we discussed it on the board, so as you saw in the law after the law was passed or published in the National Journal, the resolution minister means the Minister of the Sea within 30 days to lay down a rule that will regulate this. I said on the board a little correction of the incorrect assumption that we're going to do it within a legal period of less than 30 days and we're standing on it, we're already going to start working on that rule, so it's not, it's not complicated and it's going to be passed in that time that's foreseen by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71432	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Dretar. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, and then he's going to speak to a respected representative, Majda Buric, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71433	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State Jelic and Principal Cicak, the Honorable Parliamentary Representatives and MPs. Therefore, as already stated, the aim of this law is to amend only 4 articles laying down powers for REGOS to connect unrelated payments to the contribution of the first pension column without the consent of the payer, as already prescribed in 2018. for the integration of unrelated payments of the contribution of the second pension column, i.e. individual capitalised savings. Now what does that really mean? So all of us, or our employers, are bonds to pay 15% of the contributions to the first pension column from which the current pensions of the current pensioners are financed, and last year about 21 billion kuna were paid on that basis. Also, our employers are bonds and 5% contributions to individual capitalised savings, i.e. for the second pillar. These are our personal accounts in compulsory pension funds that we either choose ourselves or are automatically placed in them, and then these money for years, years and 10 years, the more it is, fertilize and capitalize and eventually the property turns into a pension. In this process, the role of the ILO or the Mirovinski Insurance Society is very important. And as for the second pillar of last year, 6.8 billion kuna was paid for the second pillar's contribution. Now all the funds of the contribution of the first and second pillars that are paid monthly end in a passing account which is actually the central place of payment of the contribution as a major intersection. If employers have properly submitted a PPPD form, or a report on receipts, income tax, tax, and contributions to compulsory insurance, then we have absolutely no problem and these funds, i.e. contributions from the first and second pillars, are channelled further or to our personal accounts in mandatory pension funds or to the state budget if we are talking about generation solidarity. Now, if the employer did not properly submit the JOPPD form and if he made a random mistake either with the entry of the OIB or wrongly entered the amount of the contributions or entered the collection, made a collection payment for several previous months, then those funds actually end up unrelated to the REGOS temporary account, so where they don't really belong, their right place is actually in our personal accounts or generational solidarity, and that's that temporary REGOS account. In 2018, as already mentioned above, the Ministry of Labour and the Government of the Republic of Croatia prescribed that REGOS has the official authority to connect and compare unrelated payments of the second pillar and return them to the personal accounts of the users of mandatory pension funds. Since January 2002, more than €92 billion has been paid in the second pillar's contributions and within 8 days, it connects on average about 95% of the payments, and the unrelated payments of the second pillar's contributions today amount to around 0.39% and about $ 360 million and what is also important to say that REGOS has withdrawn or coupled around 300 million kuna from the provisional account during 2021. As regards the contribution of the first pillar in the period from '14. So to this day, more than 160 billion kunas of contributions have been paid, of which 99.5% of all funds are connected, outstanding payments are about 0.5%, amounting to 854 million kuna, and this Law will actually give REGOS official authority as well as unallocated second pillar funds, which is already in place, so channel them where they really belong and pair them with personal accounts, i.e. channel them according to generational solidarity. I think it is also necessary here to mention and to stress that employers can still check via the e-Iscret system that the JOPPD patterns are properly completed and if they are not, they can fix it so they won't need intervention, but if they don't, then it will do REGOS for them and I think that what we're talking about today is, therefore, the pairing of these data is kind of an administrative discharge of the economy at all. What I particularly want to mention and praise is the opening of 4 pension information centres right in the year of the crisis, I think it is very commendable, that open centres are in the strict centres of 4 biggest Croatian cities, in Zagreb, Rijeka, Osijek and Split, centres that aim to openness and transparency of the pension system and generally strengthen pension and financial literacy, and I think it is very good that the European Social Fund's resources which are actually co-financed by the project My Pensions, the improvement of REGOS services on the labour market have been withdrawn. The HDZ Club will certainly support the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Insurance Central Register Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71434	The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71435	Good afternoon, everyone. So it's about the proposal for a law supplementing the Central Insurance Register Act. We can say there aren't any big problems that we'd single out at the first ball. So we're talking here, of course, about a law that even in e-Consultation didn't have, I don't know, he didn't have any objections, so there wasn't much debate. It is therefore about the payment of contributions, which is undoubtedly an important factor affecting the amount of pension, and this is about unrelated contributions to compulsory pension insurance, but, as we have been warned, this will not affect the achievement of insurance rights. It's important and I'll come back to that later to keep the books clean, and now we'll see why the books have to be clean. But here it's just about that. We can indeed say that there is also an improvement because, as you have heard, it means out of exposure, today nearly 700 million kunas of unrelated payments and contributions have been recorded since January 2014, contributions from the first pillar of pension insurance or 0.55% of total payments. We have been told by the secretary of state that it is a matter of dealing with the problems of the first pillar of pension insurance here, the second pillar is, we say, resolved, although we also heard here, or at the discussion on the Committee of Labour we heard that there is also a degree of some unrelated payments, so 0.39%, here we have now heard that there is something that may come from these corona measures, that this will be settled. We will see what this will look like, but in any case, it is a legislative framework which refers to the fact that at this point in time, the legislative framework does not require the integration of data on the payment of contributions to compulsory pension insurance based on generational solidarity, or the first pillar of pension insurance under official duty, will now mean, without the consent of the payer, that the contribution will settle. Technical conditions have been established, this Regulation on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Regulation has been adopted, etc. and we can say that there are no too many problems, so unconnected contributions will be connected by insurance companies, the legislator boasts that it is an administrative discharge, which it is. The proposal for an amendment has only a few articles, the point is that REGOS is authorised, this article. 2. REGOS shall be authorised without the consent of the payment obligor who has unrelated payments of contributions to compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity to carry out the connection with unrelated insurance obligations. I'm saying, there was no objection to the e-Advisership. So we can say, it's all more or less formality, which is the void of this part of the hall, and also the fullness of this part because you're not going to get much of an exaggeration here, is it, the thing is pretty formal. But I'm going to ask a bigger question, why is HDZ so worried about showing the real situation and avoiding any ambiguity around the Central Insurance Register? Well colleagues and colleagues, the Central Insurance Register is a very, very important register, it is a golden source of statistical manipulation that HDZ is waving at in front of the working majority, which, behold, it is not clear that it should feel that it is good and that working majority is more, unfortunately trusts its eyes than what HDZ tells them. So I asked the Secretary of State if he was okay with the number of insurance workers being identified with the number of employees, and unfortunately, he answered that he was fine with it, that the number of insurance workers was connected to the number of employees. Now, that is, all right and Andrej Plenkovic, it's okay and Minister Aladrović because they persistently cite HZMO data that keeps insurance statistics, i.e. employees, by them in the Republic of Croatia, and I repeat, constantly, whether, one and the other, that this number is greater than the Covid crisis, which is actually true, but insurance companies are not necessarily employed and insured persons are not necessarily employed. The statistics of the insurance company include, for example, persons with extended insurance and young people on professional training without establishing a working relationship. There would not be enough time to read who these are all persons with extended insurance, so there is a whole list of those persons with extended insurance, meaning those who are on unpaid leave, the rest of their working relationship until the child is 3 years old, on professional training or specialization after the termination of the employment contract, i.e. work, unemployment after the termination of insurance, etc., etc. Last year, 16 700 people were less employed than they were insured, 2 years ago that number was 26 thousand less, so they easily deal with tens of thousands of people who are not employed, but are insurance workers. Of course, then HDZ is in the interest of all their books being clean and that these insurance companies are all well-numbered. But that's not all. Manipulation with the number of employees is one of the more perfided HDZ pranks, which unfortunately has an impact on public opinion given the proverbially good rating, congratulations to colleagues and colleagues on the right hand side of this assembly. In the Government Report, Andrej Plenkovic stated, here he told us that the unemployment rate fell from 13% to 7%, 7%, and some percent, the unemployment rate persistently without giving the main reason for the decline in unemployment rates, i.e. eviction rates. The reduction in the unemployment rate was record in 2019 when the unemployment rate was reduced to a historical low of 7%, but 300 thousand people moved out. Today, I have often instructed this data, 14% of the working-age population has been evicted, no, more than 17% of the working-age population with today has been evicted. I recommend one brochure from the State Statistics Institute, Croatia in the figures in 2021, one real thriller read. So not only did 17% of the working-age population move out, we're holding a high first place in the last 10 years. So when it comes to this low unemployment rate, then it would be fair to say that it created itself so that we simply moved the population out. Very nice, but HDZ won't say that. The employment rate is never mentioned. Now, I have to admit that I was even surprised that the employment rate was mentioned in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, but you will not, orally, ever hear anything about the employment rate. So we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe, only Spain, Italy, Greece are below us. I've been passing through this DZS brochure a little bit, and here you have one really alarming data, so what is the number, what is the number of working population compared to the active population and what is the number of employees. Well, the workforce is 2.6 million, if now around, the active population is 1.7 million, so somewhere around 865 grand, and the employees are about 1.6 million, 1.630 grand. So that's 134,000 less than the active population, and 999 thousand less than the working-age population. So the difference between a working-age population and employees is almost a million people. So these are the numbers we have to look at. So how busy he is and how busy he is, not counting some of the insurance companies out there, I mean, who can be really fictitious numbers, that doesn't mean anything. So we need to see how many people are able to work, but it's not working. It's a huge potential. The enormous potential of people who simply didn't get what basic human right, which is to do. So the increase in the number of employees is really fabricated information and above all it's about the number of insurance companies and I have to say, that's first of all, I mean, the purpose of that is to raise ratings. In addition to insurance, it also counts, meaning not only young people means professional training but it should be said, as well as by foreign workers, by liberalising labour imports and by lack and moving these quotas, that number has also increased. etc., etc., all to have [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] Nice numbers. [[In the name of...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71436	In the name of the Social Democrats' Club, the respected representative Eric Fabianic will now speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71437	... and colleagues, today we are talking about amendments to the Central Insurance Register Act in order to fix something that is an initial error, which is because they cannot match certain payments from 1.1.2014, namely, in particular, I know that it is a yearly de facto about prominences, i.e. some 700 million kunas, so these amounts must be associated with certain names and last names. [[Specially enabled.]] Those names and last names are basically workers, so they're insurance companies. In order for this to be done, I must comply with this Regulation which must be made by the Ministry, but in order for the Ministry, the Competent Ministry, to correct that Regulation, we must make amendments and additions to this Act which essentially erases the question of the consent of the obligor, so whoever has to pay it, as a rule, the employer. So until yesterday the employer was protected in this, and basically contributions to pension insurance were contributions from the salary, not on the salary, and that means this is about the money from the workers, right? And no one asked the worker's consent to do it because that's understood, right? I mean, okay, now a little... But what I'm saying is that we had a little bit of a weird logic in the whole thing when it was written and when it was done, so it was 2013, to be clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is positive is by introducing a JOPPD pattern, so as it has been written in the 2014 explanation, that de facto analysed, I was in the Committee on Work, mentioned the M-4 form, but there is also the question of the R-S pattern or the D form, etc. But when it was done, it was sort of a way of simplifying things, and the fact is that every time you do something new that there's gonna be certain shortcomings that we're finally solving, but gentlemen, we've been resuscitating it after 7 years, or 3 years earlier, we're resuscitating the part that's tied to the second pension column, right? Now, entering into an analysis of what makes these mistakes and saying that de facto employers were filling the wrong pattern, I heard in Zagorje that they call it, this, then I need to look at what is not valid in the system and which is why there have been these frequent errors which, due to payments that are more important for the second pillar than for the first pillar, because the first pillar in each case is, is a system of generational solidarity, which means that this payment is not capitalised savings and is not money from the insurance who paid it through the employer, but by means of the employer rather than, so that it does not affect the calculation of the pension, and we also talked about it on the Committee, because we have the calculation of the pension on the basis of the paid salary, and not on the basis of the contributions paid, although it should be taken into consideration, but without necessarily not necessarily being understood. Today it's much cleaner, today it's much more transparent, but in the past we've had a mess. We had a mess. Trako that, in any case, this is better, this is the correction of one mistake that de facto was already made seven years ago, the only question is that it took us seven years to correct it, and I hope that this rule will be really passed within the deadline of the law that was set and that everything will be fine, so that the Social Democrats Club will support this, this first reading, and for sure we will, if you don't change the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71438	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71439	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with... fellow MPs and MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As explained in the proposal for a law supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act, the existing Insurance Register Act provides for the integration of data on compulsory pension insurance contributions on the basis of individual capitalised savings, under official duty, without the consent of the payer for payments of more than 6 months of age, with the responsibilities of the Income and Tax Receipts Report and the contributions to compulsory insurance. The existing legislative framework does not require the integration of data on compulsory insurance contributions based on generational solidarity, the first pillar of pension insurance under official duty without the consent of the payer of the contribution, so that the practice means that unconnected payments are made until the payers submit the relevant forms or requests for reimbursement or transfer, because the payers are obliged to submit data to REGOS and tax administrations on each payment of the contribution for compulsory pension insurance. Since the bonds do not submit that request for the connection of unrelated forms, nearly 700 million kuna of unrelated contributions of the first pension column or 0.55 of the total contributions payments for the first pillar of pension insurance have been recorded. As we could also hear from the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership in front of the promoter, it was a technical accounting matter, and our issues and discussions were in this direction how it affected the rights of the insurance company or how it affected the number of insurance companies and how much this change would have a bearing on the control of the payment of contributions. Until now, however, there have been major difficulties in unconnected payments, and it has rarely led to difficulties in the exercise of certain rights. Since it is really about the corrections that are affecting the positive business of the SDP Representatives Club will support these supplements only with the criticism that I have already said, that if these difficulties have been known all these years since 2014 so far, it could mean that these technical corrections have to be improved before, they could, in cooperation with the tax administration, comply with the rules and come to all these preconditions in order to make a substantial connection between payments and ultimately, to protect the insurance companies in the exercise of their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71440	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, and will be spoken by the respected representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71441	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, although not everyone here in the hall right now is very pleased that most of the members of the Committee on Labour and Pensions are taking part in these discussions and that in some ways what should be commended, commendation, what dilemmas are opening up dilemmas and essentially to discuss this so important existentially important system for our people at an age, impotence and disease in particular. And I repeat many times from this pay phone what happens to us when we retire is the result of all of our decades of payments and, because these payments, especially in what we're talking about today's first pension column, we're not saving money, not money on one pile, but simply with these contributions, we're creating our own level of rights that we're going to consume, if and the moment we go or we're lucky to use our pension, whatever it is, and it depends on whatever it is said that no matter where these contributions are, it depends on the real payment of contributions and the real amount of wages it will be. The bigger the contributions, the more paid, the higher the average salary it is to expect a larger pension. So we have a structural mistake in society, a structural society that our unions and workers don't individually fight for bigger wages and accept more jobs. So the higher effects in the course, the higher wages, the higher the result of higher pensions. So that's clear as one plus one. It is in error that those who claim that the formula of coordination will increase, that they, the formula of harmonisation, are guilty of low, low pensions. But not to generalize this story. So this law should be supported. The time when the JOPPD pattern is introduced and the technological capabilities of all systems are then and today are not absolutely the same, today they are much more advanced, more advanced and much better. Because you know that in 2014 when I raised money in Zagreb in Pula, it was only 4 days that the minus and the withdrawal of money was registered. Today, if I want to put 1,000 kunas in the cash machine at the same moment in all ATMs throughout the Republic of Croatia, you can see that. So I compare two complex, complex systems. So both the pension and contribution payment system must achieve this same, same automation because this requirement is simply this time. It's not a whim, it's not a modernity, it's just that, that's the way it's supposed to be. If they can, one must, the other must. So, what I would say is, the controversy with the fact that the end-users won't feel this consequence that on theirs, their contributions aren't associated with their name tickles me very much because I'm sure that in Germany it wouldn't, it wouldn't work that way. In Germany, which also has professional, professional autonomy and financial autonomy of its pension institutions, each would be, regardless of whether it was called the JOPPD form or any other technology would be, the payment of contributions would be associated and would be, the basis of the pension calculation. We're a little bit more flexible going in favor of those who like a little bit, a little smoother. But let's let the story go, that story is for some, for some others, other polemics. What I would like to say is, I have already said in the replica that I commend this rule that will come shortly after, after this proposal to amend or supplement this Central Insurance Register Act and not to be mistaken, let us not be in error anywhere in the special account of 850 million kuna. Let's get this straight. There are facts on non-classified contributions, contributions are paid into the budget, contributions from the first pension rate are paid into the budget and are used immediately for the payment of current pensions. This is the fact that there's a statistical indication that there's no living hunt standing somewhere in the account. The HZZO case at the supplemental health insurance is reversed. There's live money, a million 750 thousand insurance companies that pay 70 kuna each month to their supplemental health insurance policy. So there's another story here. So, as far as the damage is concerned, there's no harm done. Of course, I am tickled and debated by colleague Katarina Peović because of course I would like to know, learn the ratio, and I believe everyone here in this hall, the ratio between the working-age population and the relationship between the working-age and the employed population. But I immediately contribute to this dilemma, you know we have a large number of students working on student jobs, who work, who are employees, and are not insurance companies on that basis, not insurance companies, are not contributors. They're automated insurance on a health contribution, but not on pension. I think you should change that, too. That they should pay a minimum pension contribution for their future when they already have salaries, health contributions and that pension contribution may be at a lower rate, but that they have at least that year's work you recognize through the internship that they are not missing years, years of internship, that it is some minimum. But I still have to do it right now, see how I get caught right away on the echo that my colleague threw away. I have to say, and now I've checked with the Director for the Retirement System, I didn't have that information in my head, so we have people who did 60-41 so they have 41 years of internships behind them,raubed, but they according to our statistics are able to you know up to 65 is a working-age population by all statistics. So I'd like to do it if we need a thematic debate at the board's session to say pop pop, Bobba Bob, because really if someone is manipulating his thing, but there's no need for this to be hidden because it's basically our naked truth, and the more people know, the more we're going to appreciate each other. Here, the HNS Club and HSU and the independent representatives will support this proposal to supplement the law because it is useful in any case because it eliminates the confusion in all data, each payment will belong to its insurance company. And just one more thing to say and here it can happen that there are more insurance companies than employees, as we have 2 million 300 thousand insurance companies in the second pillar, if I remember because every time someone paid a contribution to the first and second pillar, they're being held as an insurance company, and maybe they've been out of Croatia for 5 years. So we need to understand statistical data, and every one of you is so nice to paint the whole situation that we understand it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71442	We're going to an individual debate. The first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71443	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretaries and directors, so I will first thank my colleagues Hrelja, who was talking about this dilemma that the public should really know and these facts that they are, and that this law will certainly welcome REGOS and all of us to be as little as possible, as little payment as possible that is not identified as it should be in the right account. That's really necessary. Whoever did this and I point it out in the public administration then knows what the system of payment accounts is and how important they are and the JOPPD form has connected it all together or made it possible for the tax administration, and the REGOS also have timely, fast, accurate information about how much and when it is paid and can be monitored every month and in this way we actually have a regulated system. Here it is through the first pillar indeed it is one, one generational and one cluster from which common rights and obligations arise but it is not good that in any particular records there is any information which is not, which is not attached to that obligor that was needed. So I think that these dilemmas that some colleagues mention and colleagues, the number of employees and the number of insurance workers in this case really do us no good, neither does HDZ have any benefits, because the goal of all of us should be to really want as many employees and those who will pay contributions both mandatory and all others so that we can really have the rights we can, and also the obligations that the pension system has and health insurance system so that we can comply with their bonds. Therefore, the goal must be to have as many employees as possible, that there are higher salaries, that in this way and as many contributions as possible, and then we will have a lot more satisfied and employees but also tomorrow, pensioners who will benefit from those rights. So here I think that this is really necessary, you need to do this as soon as possible and in this way really make it possible for all the unknowns that remain on any payment, so this is also an invitation to the public to really follow and watch when they pay any obligation, whether in the state, or in the city, or in the municipal budget, that those calls to the number, models and calls to the number are really important to be entered in the way that was sent to you in the form of an e-mail, and that is then the safety that you as a obligor will not have to look for where your payment ended but it will really be recorded in the analyticals on your name exactly as it should be. So here's what I welcome is all this government effort and this really needs to be done so that every obligor has a clean situation for every kuna in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71444	The Republic has a respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71445	Well, here's the thing, colleague Peric, you just said that HDZ has no use for counting the number of insurance workers instead of the number of employees, but the fact is that this year over 16,000 people were less employed than they were, 2 years ago, 26,000 less, so I think even when we consider it, it benefits because it looks like more employees. But this is insignificant in relation to the manipulation that occurs continuously in the public, which is that it states the rate, not to mention the employment rate, but to say that the number of employees has increased, means any insurance company, anyone who has had any work contract, a colleague of Hrelja has told students we don't count, so we don't count even foreign workers, so they're part of that number is how many people are employed. They're not Croatian citizens, are they? So we're counting on how many people are employed. The employment rate is never mentioned. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71446	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71447	So what's recorded isn't that paid by some aliens, but things are payers, no one's gonna show up voluntarily going into the state budget for something I don't have a commitment to. So what's paid and what's recorded is really true. We can talk about what we would like and how we would like, that the fact is that mobility, especially of the young generation, has been greatly increased since we were in the EU, and that then this possibility of leaving, coming back, and returning of foreign workers is also much greater than it was before, so it is our reality and our reality that here we can sometimes be right, but sometimes it is not. So here's the benefits we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71448	There is also a respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71449	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterparts Perić, I am pleased that by introducing this system of payment of contributions, taxes and other donations through the JOPPD form, it has certainly been a relief for entrepreneurs, but also for institutions that use these data tax administrations, REGOS and others, but certainly also at a time when they know that certain donations are not well paid, employers have the opportunity to request a transfer or refund of funds, and this through the system e-tax has one SNU app there means all these options are open, but here we see that they are not very useful and it is certainly good to stress our public and entrepreneurs to use these opportunities and to see where their money goes. They pay their money, they make a fair payment to pay taxes and contribute, but they pay it in the wrong account, and it sure as hell ain't good, but this way it's gonna be done. and correct REGOS. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71450	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71451	Thank you very much, that colleagues are very important to warn exactly both entrepreneurs and craftsmen and everyone else that it is no big deal if the forts have made a mistake. In the JOPPD pattern itself, there are countless of those codes that are very easy to make and thus, and also a number of numbers when it is, when it comes to a payment account that has at least 4 digits and then you have an OIB, etc., so it's always, or more, some additional of this code, so it's very important to guide that there's a way to fix it, to review it, to determine the fact because then it's going to be much easier for the REGOS itself and then it's actually getting much cleaner and clearer. So there are no obstacles to looking for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71452	Thank you. And now she will speak to the esteemed representative Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71453	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, so teaching what I said in the introduction, I think this is a good law, and I think that its coverage will bring good to the entire pension system in the Republic of Croatia and I think that this raises it to a higher and more comprehensive level. And I am glad that the funds from the provisional account are regularly and continuously coupled, and I am glad that they will exist for both the first pillar and the generation solidarity funds. What I want to point out on this occasion is that the number of personal accounts of members of the mandatory pension funds on 30.9. this year was 2 million and 96,000 543 members, most of which were in the B category. I must also point out that the net assets of mandatory pension funds on the same day are about 130 billion kuna which is an increase of 13, almost 13.5 billion kuna compared to last year, and that is an increase of 11.5% which I consider to be an extremely significant team more than we are talking about in fact about the time of the crown crisis or the time which, in my opinion, is very challenging and never more difficult than the time of the Homeland War. At the same time, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic achieved good governance, strategic management of good, positive results and employment issues that some MPs here are having a problem with. But I want to tell the truth. And I'm ashamed to say that we heard here today, I'm sorry, but lies. And I'm not ashamed to say they're lies, but we've heard lies about the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia. And we haven't heard any arguments about it. It is true that the number of employees in Prime Minister Plenkovic's term is growing steadily. Especially in the last 2.5 years, which I have already stated are extremely challenging. Compared to last year, the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia has increased, up by 52,000 insurance workers. Compared to old normal 2019, the number of insurance companies increased by nearly 15,000. And these are the facts that hurt some, I'm sorry it's like that, but obviously these people don't want good for Croatia, and I'm sorry that it's like that, but I'm not ashamed to say that these people are lying because when someone's lying, they're lying and it's like that. The truth is that the number of insurance workers, workers, employees in the Republic of Croatia is growing and it didn't fall from Mars, it didn't come from anywhere but because of the good governance of this government. I also commend in this respect the Ministry of Work with good measures, and also with a top-notch measure to preserve jobs, which is, with which it cares behind all Croatian workers and entrepreneurs who were in need and who needed help and who should be helped today. In this way, the government has helped more than 700,000 workers and more than 120,000 Croatian employers for which around 18.5 billion kuna has been paid so far. And those are the facts. Where does the data on employees who also had problems here, so they didn't fall from Mars either, these are HZMO data, it's a serious 100-year-old institution, a 100-year-old institution next year that is very serious about its work, which has accredited people at Eurostat who do this job. Here's your data. Here, too, is a lie about the fact that insurance companies include those who are trained in training without a working relationship. Dear Mrs. Peovic another lie, the HDZ government abolished SOR, abolished it precisely because young workers and those who enter the labour market for the first time it's better and it's true as much as it hurts you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71454	Thank you, we have more replicas. The first is the respected representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71455	Thank you. My colleague Buric, you were the State Secretary in the Ministry of Labour and Pension Insurance a few months ago, so tell me here, you know very well the problem of the pension system and the insurance and pensions and the work, which is now back 5 years on whether the increase is, and we know that we all here know that, in terms of pensions for our pensioners and for our workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71456	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71457	Thank you, dear colleague Zmaic. In the term of office of this government as far as the pension system itself is concerned, except that we implemented a pension reform that came into force on 1.1.2018, excuse me in 2019, so we're talking about 6 laws. What have we achieved, and what are the outcomes today? The outcome is to say all mothers and adoptive women have an average of 2% higher pension per child, and that is what we have provided for pension reform only one of the elements. What I particularly want to point out is that in this, the mandate of this government that all pensions for a million and more than 200 thousand Croatian pensioners grew by more than 18%, and for those with the lowest pensions as much as 23% and this continued work will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71458	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71459	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Buric, we see that this proposal for a Central Insurance Register Act allows all insurance companies to choose to commit to the first or second pillar, but I will look back on something else. In order to mitigate the consequences of the caused Covida-19 diseases, the government made a decision to pay off the one-time cash receipts of the so-called. Covid add-on to users' pensions. Covid supplement is paid to users whose pensions are from Croatian insurance and whose pension is lower than 4,000 kuna. The terms of that payment depend on the size of the pension, but for those who make pensions in the Republic of Croatia with an foreign element which did not achieve the right of one-time monetary, monetary income because they missed the deadline. The deadline has been extended until November 30th, so I think it would be possible for our pensioners who have not yet been able to explain once again what they need to prepare to achieve this path or to achieve a reception.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71460	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71461	Thank you, dear colleague Maximchuk, you said so. This government has also made it possible to choose a more favourable pension, so our users can choose from 2019 only from the first pillar or want a pension combined from the first and second pillars depending on what is more favourable to them. Of course we also made it possible to add 27% not only to the first pillar but to the first and second pillars from 20 to 27%. We have also provided a national pension for over 65 years of age who have no legal possibility of obtaining a pension at all, and we have also provided Covid with an allowance for pensioners who have a pension of up to 4,000 kuna at the level of Covid supplement up to 1,200 kuna. Yes, the deadline for reporting users who receive both national and foreign pensions has been extended, and that period lasts until the end of November of the month, so I am glad that you have appealed to all those who do Maybe they haven't reported doing it yet. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71462	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71463	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Buric, you mentioned that from the beginning of 2019, by adopting 6 pension laws, it has gone into a pension reform that was definitely needed because of demographic changes and changes in the labour market, as well as the derelict of the pension system during the previous years, where neither the pension increases nor pension rights were taken into account. Therefore, what is good in that pension reform was respected and the will of Croatian citizens, so after the referendum was called 67 too much, the conditions for going to retirement, the retirement pension for long-term insurance and early retirement, which means that this government still listens to the needs of its citizens and builds on their needs, which, for what they show in the legislative system, are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71464	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71465	Thank you, Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic, and this government listens to and hears all the problems of these citizens and solves these problems because we have such results, and I think they are more valuable to us than we are in these very challenging times, and I think they should be seen that way and more valuable. What you've noticed is that it hasn't always been a relationship and a way of managing as it is now at the time of this government. In fact, we go back 6-7 years, and what we see in the system, we see that the budget rebalancing in 2014 worked in a way that out of individual capitalised savings from our personal accounts and in particular from the personal accounts of active military persons and persons with disabilities has been stripped of 4 billion kuna and thus is a rag of the state budget in 2014 or '15, I apologize if I've been wrong for a year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71466	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71467	I must say, first of all, that I am looking forward to the new debates of the new Labour Act and that I hope there will be more opposition here present to mate with what we hear from you. So you said I was lying. What exactly did I tell a lie, exactly? Is it a lie that more insurance than the number of employees? So that's what I said. There's more insurance than the number of employees. Exactly 16700 more. And is it a lie that 17% of the population has moved out? Is it a lie that we have some of the lowest minimum wages and the lowest average wages? I warn the Croatian public that one of your real locks in the public space was that we increased in the highest ratio means minimum wage compared to average. And you didn't lie, I'm not telling you to lie at all, you're just manipulating statistics. When you say that Croatia in Europe is the first country to raise minimum wage over the last few years compared to average So we have the lowest minimum and lowest average salary in Europe. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71468	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71469	Thank you, Mrs. Peovic, with all due respect to you, I really have no problem telling the truth when you're lying. So it's about you saying that this government is manipulating. No, this government does not manipulate, this government solves the problems of Croatian citizens. And that's how it's gonna keep going. The information on employees is not drawn from Mars or from some institutions that are not engaged in this, but from HZMO where accredited people who are accredited to Eurostat work. As for the very employment and unemployment rates that are important macroeconomic indicators, they show that unemployment in the '20s was 7%, which is only 0.1% higher than the European average. That employment was 66.9, 66.9% and that the methodology for calculating both the rate and the employee and the unemployed changed Since you're very interested in it, I'm interested in you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm referring right to the official pages. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71470	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71471	Dear colleague Buric, I wasn't going to replicate, but you mentioned this 100-year-old of ours. And otherwise, here on, from these benches, I had a lot of battles about, when it comes to compensation, promise, one-time payouts and synchronization. It's four categories that we can't mix in any way, and I'm asking you to, here we need a debate on the state of the pension system, a parliamentary debate on the annual report, and I'm just going to let you know when there's a next report, and it's going to be on the hundredth anniversary of this proud old man of 100 years of HZMO I'm going to propose here a debate on the report, so let's get out of line, let's know who knows everything, let's tell the truth to our citizens and how much he pays the lowest pensions of uncovered contributions, as much as by special regulations, let's tell the truth in the sun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71472	Thank you. Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71473	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. I will not speak to you now because I do not speak to anyone at will, but I can conclude that you really are one of the better acquaintances of the pension system and social protection in the Croatian Parliament. He, what I agree with you, is that we are also cooperating together, and also following your work previously to know that you have been extremely engaged in a 27% supplement. Who took care of it? She got rid of this government. A lot of people talked about it. Who solved it? The government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has resolved. Compensation who solved it? I also remember working together for a while on a law that referred to the return of debt to pensioners or to its placing out of force. That's it. Yes... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71474	Thank you. Dear representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic will speak next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71475	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleague and colleague, I am talking about the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Central Insurance Register, which we call REGOS in short. Today's bill proposes to amend the existing law in a way that will improve and improve the process of payment of pension insurance contributions based on intergenerational solidarity or first pillar. The payment obligation shall be paid by the payer, fee or other income on each payment, and shall be determined by the tax administration’s decision for the self-indemnity of the payment of the contribution. Over the years, more precisely since 2014 since the application of the JOPPD form or the income, income and tax tax and compulsory insurance contributions, it has been established that there are so-called ‘income and tax’. non-linked contributions of the first pillar of pension insurance, amounting to nearly 700 million kuna on the provisional account and not transferred to the budget as well as all other contributions paid for the first pillar of pension insurance. The temporary account is an account opened for the forwarding of unconnected payments and payments which, after connection, cannot be forwarded to pension funds and in the period prior to the selection of the pension fund. In particular, the bonds paid contributions for the first pillar, but because of the falsely filled forms, the money had not yet come to the right place. It's 0.55% of the total payments in that period, so we can't say that the system generally doesn't work. The payers have the opportunity to request a break or a return when they find that they have misfitted the JOPPD forms and it is via the e-tax system. However, it is evident that there are dealers who have not yet done so. This proposal will give REGOS the power, without the consent of the obligor, to implement the connection of unrelated payments to compulsory pension insurance on the basis of intergenerational solidarity or the first pillar and thus to facilitate the payment and distribution of contributions to the bonds, and the funds will not be used. Linking the payment data for compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, the second pillar is already regulated and REGOS implements it. Likewise, when we talk about this issue, we raise the question of how much we as citizens know about the funds that employers pay for pension insurance, whether we monitor the flow of money, where that money is invested, how funds operate, whether we know what our rights and opportunities are in terms of managing those funds, but also the possibility of saving so that one day as pensioners have a higher pension. Financial literacy on capitalised but voluntary pension savings has been at a rather low level for years, and it is good that the ministry has obliged pension societies to invest in strengthening financial literacy. The 2018 Act amending and supplementing the Mandatory Pension Funds Act has introduced an obligation for pension funds or companies to invest part of their income each year in strengthening citizens' financial literacy on individual capitalised savings. And it is just as REGOS itself as a central insurance register, as a state institution which has the basic task of collecting contributions for members of compulsory pension funds, is keeping records of the personal accounts of members, makes efforts to bring citizens closer to the topics of pension insurance, so for example during 2021 REGOS opened pension information centres in 4 regional centres, such as Rijeka, Split, Osijek and Zagreb with the aim of openness and transparency of the pension system to the public, as well as strengthening the pension literacy of citizens. A peacekeeping information centre or a shortened MIC is a place where all interested citizens and entrepreneurs can get information about the opportunities offered to them in relation to the pension system and, with the help of professional and trained workers, inform themselves of the REGOS and HZMO pension insurance system. This makes it easier for them to take actions that will result in better financial management and more accumulated means for better life in old age and thus also higher pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71476	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71477	In your discussion, you spoke about pension funds and informing citizens about pension funds. So how much do you think our citizens use the possibility of saving for retirement through voluntary pension funds or through a third pillar?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71478	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71479	Thank you, colleague Zmaić, means pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings are the second and third pillars. The second pillar is required for all employees, and the third pillar is voluntary retirement insurance in which each insurance company decides whether or not to pay for the voluntary pension insurance. At this point, there are currently about 39,000 members in voluntary pension funds, of which there are about 346.000 members in open voluntary pension funds, and there were about 45,520 in prisons. And what you can see from the year of the year that the trend in the growth of new members is good because the total net assets of these voluntary pension funds on September 30th amounted to as much as 7.34 billion kuna. And it grew from the previous year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71480	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71481	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic, therefore, since you spoke about mandatory pension funds, I think there is one commendation missing from the mandatory pension funds so very sincere, since when we look at the business especially in, in the period until 30 September 2021 then we see that in total, the net assets amount to nearly 130 billion kuna and that it has increased by nearly 13.5 billion kuna compared to the previous year and that this is an increase of 11.5%. As far as offerings are concerned, it is the largest in the A category of even 13.7%, which is also extremely commendable. And it is extremely commendable that mandatory pension funds are working very hard to promote financial literacy, so we have very often and... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71482	Dear representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71483	Thank you, colleague Buric, that we do not often have opportunities in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the topics from, on pension insurance even though we are provided with reports from pension funds that we also have meetings on the Work Committee, and then we study these reports a little bit, and it is a pity that we may not discuss it in more detail and see how these funds work and what opportunities insurance companies have in these funds at all. They have the option of selecting a fund, they can change it at a certain time so they can have younger insurance companies, they can choose whether they want to be A, B or C, and those categories depend on it, in a way on the level of risk in a particular fund. The only thing that's five years before retirement is that I think they can only be in the C fund, and everything else can be chosen. And it's really good to talk a little bit and more about pension funds in this financial literacy because It's an investment in the future, in bigger pensions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71484	She will now speak to the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71485	Here's what I didn't mean to really talk about pension funds, but here's the thank you I'm encouraged to say. So let's also point out that the second pension column was introduced in 2002 on the World Bank initiative and is actually a clean privatisation of the pension column. That it was first accepted by certain South American countries and then by the transition countries of Southeastern Europe, including Croatia, by EU transition members such as Poland, Hungary and Slovakia have decided on some form of limitation or total abolition of the second pension pillar, and the reasons for the increase in public debt and the financial losses resulting in an impact on the cutting of social security costs and a lower rate of investment in education, health, culture and an increase in consumption tax. Mandatory pension funds, therefore, operating in Croatia, invest the largest share of their assets of about 72% in government bonds, which is why safety is also a contribution and a low risk of investment. Immediately after the crisis, pension funds other than government bonds also invested in corporate bonds of fallen companies such as Agrokor, Nexa Groups and similar ones that could not meet their credit obligations. In any case, the pension fund, in particular, so the second pillar should certainly be questioned, we are far away from the self-esteem we hear from HDZ, but it's not the subject of what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71486	I was just about to tell you, you're completely off topic, let's get back to the central register.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71487	Excuse me, I answer what the predecessor said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71488	It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71489	It's not a replica, but why didn't you have the original exposure warned, stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71490	Let's get back to the central register, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71491	I think it's clearer then to warn the one who opened that topic. But, well, so I forgot in my presentation on behalf of the club to say that certainly this law, so in this form there are no problems and we will support it, I mean it was, it was hopefully clear from my presentation, but this is an opportunity to say something about the REGOS itself which I think is very rarely an object of interest here in this assembly, and it should be. What I haven't said yet means when this debate is being held here, so also my colleague Hrelja said that maybe that information I presented means that nearly a million people are actively working at the same time and not employed, so I don't know that 100,000 students might still be found there. That's all I'd like to answer, certainly, is where the students would be. And I agree with him that it should mean giving students pension insurance, they have the right to intern while doing something, some specific jobs. But students themselves are actually a symptom of a broader problem. So who do we even count here? We count every contract on work, and so does the student contract on work, and we can't say in any case I don't know that even if we count 100,000 of them, we have a huge gap in the number of workers and those who are employed. But it's not just that, so my colleague Buric would answer the same thing, I really have no intention of telling her that she's lying, I mean especially not when she's not lying, because I told her that she's manipulating, it's a whole other thing, she's telling me to lie, but I don't know exactly what I lied about. He says they don't get into the statistics of a person's insurance company on professional training without a working relationship because HDZ has abolished it, so we can't say that the measure didn't exist. In addition, I listed the second category, so those with extended insurance and the entire list listed such people. So let me answer that. She says she's not afraid to tell the truth. Then why isn't he talking about these people? Why don't we talk about the fact that there are over 16,000 people who, therefore, are insurance companies, are not employed. Why don't we talk about it? Why don't we talk about the employment rate, if he's not afraid to talk about it openly and if we don't talk about it in gloves. Why don't we talk about the employment rate? It's not just that. Look, it means the employment rate, one of the lowest in Europe, only Spain, Italy and Greece have a lower employment rate than Croatia, but it is that we in these employees in our case are counting here... There are only a symptom, absolutely all work contracts, and be careful, Croatia has been at the top of Europe for a decade by the number of insecure work contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we say we have employees, what kind of employees do we have? We've got employees who are completely preeminent working relationships that have no security whatsoever. Below us is France far below us, so we are the highest in Europe, in the first place, so as many as 4.6% of Croatia's workers are working on contracts for up to 3 months, the EU average is only 2 whole, 2%. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71492	Now finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Nadica Dreven Budinski, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71493	Dear Vice President, Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a law supplementing the Central Insurance Register Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 201, the proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Central Insurance Register Act, NN 359/13 and 39/18 provides for the legal position of the body, business, powers and tasks of the Central Insurance Register, etc. Regos. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, the existing legislative frameworks are not prescribed to link the payment of contributions to compulsory pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity or the first pillar of pension insurance under official duty without the consent of the payer. The payer must fill in the prescribed forms the data submitted to REGOS and then REGOS and the Tax Administration on a common form when each payment of pension insurance contributions is made. An analysis of the payment of the contribution found that bonds are often wrong when filling orders, recording the wrong mark of the JOPPD form, or by one payment paying the debt shown in multiple forms in order to link the outstanding forms to payments for compulsory pension insurance. The bonds need to be submitted via e-Issuance, however, the bonds do not apply. We know that the introduction of JOPPD forms from 1 January 2014 to today, a total of nearly 700 million kunas of unrelated contributions of the first pillar of pension insurance or 0.55% of the total payment of contributions for the first pillar were recorded. In order to implement the law, it was necessary to provide technical preconditions for the integration of the REGOS and the Tax Administration and to lay down, by the Tax Administration, the integration by official duty which takes effect on 1 January 2022. This proposal establishes a legal framework for the conduct of the REGOS in the integration of unrelated forms of so-called ‘registration’. JoPDD with unrelated payments. The proposed non-linked contribution law for compulsory pension insurance will be linked by insurance companies, which does not affect the exercise of their rights. Obligations for payment of contributions for compulsory pension insurance shall be facilitated by the operations related to the monitoring of the regularity of the process, the connection of unrelated payments with the obligations of the forms, which shall constitute an administrative discharge for this group of business entities. It is important to highlight the provisions of the applicable law which are complemented in Article 1. 19 and 31 to the REGOS shall implement the data connection and schedule by insurance undertakings referred to in Article 1 of this Article after the expiry of the period of 6 months from the date of the unlinked payment. REGOS is authorised to implement the schedule by unconnected payment insurance according to the state of the data received by public legal authorities in proportion to the number of days for payment debtors who have ceased to exist and that there is a legal consignor and a payment obligor whose outstanding payments are older than 6 years. REGOS is authorised to implement the schedule of unrelated payments and pension insurance contributions on the basis of an individual capitalised savings of more than 6 years for a payment obligor who had the status of an insurance undertaking to carry out an independent activity. This, as well as the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, has been thoroughly analysed and the Committee has made a decision to adopt the Law, but no additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget is necessary for the implementation of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71494	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. The following point is: - Proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Committee on Fiscal Policy; Proposing the Committee on Finance and the State Budget as the basis of Article. 14 Laws on fiscal responsibility. Does the president of the Committee want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honored Committee Chairman Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71497	Thank you very much, Vice President. We therefore have before us a proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. Namely, by order of the Art. 13 The Fiscal Responsibility Act, which entered into force by the end of 2018, stipulates that the Committee on Fiscal Policy has 7 members who are elected to the term of office of 5 years. Art. 14 of the same Law is laid down to appoint the President and members of the Committee HS on the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of HS. Art. 15 and 16 were arranged to elect the President of the Committee, and Art. 17th century 2 is prescribed that the Committee on Finance and State Budget members of the Committee propose the institutions referred to in paragraphs 1 of this article, which are the State Audit Office, the Economic Institute Zagreb, the Institute of Public Finance, the CNB and the Faculty of Economics and Law of the University of Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. As the Law has clearly defined, the Commission for Fiscal Policy is an independent and independent body that performs the tasks of its department and jurisdiction set out in this Law and after we have previously completed the Commission, so 6 members of the Commission have already been elected, and now the President of the Committee for Fiscal Policy, who, as such, had to meet certain conditions, which is that he has the nationality of the Republic of Croatia, has completed a graduate university study or a specialist professional study that acquires 300 ECTS points, has at least 8 years of working experience, which is not convicted of criminal acts and is not a member of the political party, nor in the last 3 years until the day of running for the President of the Committee. We had four attempts, and here, from the 4th try, the first 3 were not successful, in this last 4th attempt we had 2 candidates, 2 candidates who are very professional and competent, and the Committee proposed to the chairman of the Committee on Fiscal Policy Professor, Dr.sc. Sandra Krtalić, who has just met all the conditions, who is a regular teacher in permanent calling on these colleges of public finances, the economy of the public sector, comparative fiscal systems and local and public finances and everything else. So we think it's Mrs. Dobbs. Krtalić Sandra is a very competent and quality person for this job which is our very president of the Committee for Fiscal Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71498	I'd like to thank the board presidents. I'm opening a debate. The first one will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta esteemed representative Plasimir Troscott. He's gone. He is losing his right to debate, so he will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, is gone. He loses his right to debate, and then the next one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak to the esteemed representative Josip Begonja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71499	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, my dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So, as suggested by the promoter, we have before us a proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. What is important is to point out that the HDZ Club will support the proposal for the Decision in question and, as already stated, after the debate and voting held by the members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, a professor, Dr.sc, has been proposed. Sandra Krtalic, president of the Committee for Fiscal Policy, will support the proposal by the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-11-0.u71500	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And as you recall, yesterday afternoon I announced and asked that all those present to inform and all others who were unfortunately not present that we would have a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives right behind the debate on the amendments, and then this, here, for the time being, we have several applications. The first will then speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosta, the respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
