ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71570	Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, Ivana Posavec The Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71571	I thank the esteemed chairman, the few colleagues and colleagues. I went to work this morning at the Moslavina Assembly, and I woke up and I had to clean the car because it was minus four degrees. I scraped it for 15 minutes. I'm saying this because I'm here today from this assembly saying hello to you from Bania, from Petrinja, from Clay and from Sisak. There people woke up this morning at a much lower temperature of minus 4 degrees, where people woke up in containers and in inadequate facilities. And I would like to remind you, on the day of the city, with the day of Sisak-Moslavina County, the vice-president of the Croatian government accompanied by the prime minister in Sisak, solemnly stated that the Croatian government will restore 20 thousand facilities and return 20 thousand families to their homes by the season of heating. The warm season has begun, we have not begun the warm season, December has begun, we have set foot at the time of the arrival, a time of hope, peace, joy and love. I am here today at the pay phone delivering something that the Petrinj Spring initiative has made public and calls for help. They say our Petrinski that unlike many other cities throughout Croatia, Petrinj and Bani are more devastated at the time of arrival than ever in their thousand-year history. It happens exactly what we kept repeating we entered in December, the sad anniversary of that terrible day when everyone shook in Petrinja and Banja, and since almost nothing moved from the dead spot. The winter of the health home in Lopasic has arrived yet to have a concrete plan for further renewal. The retirement home in Petrinja was due to be restored in September, we entered December and according to the latest information, the building will reportedly be renovated by the summer of 2022. Also by the end of September, a contract was to be signed with highway contractors and a project documentation was completed for the Zhažina knot, which is very important for Petrinja. It's December. The choice of performers was decided in November, but because of complaints of choice, everything stands. As early as August, we received information that the exhibition for the restoration of the House for mentally ill adults in Petrinja was then in the works, but there are still no visible shifts, we entered December. The return of Nazrova Street to traffic since the beginning of September has also been promised, for transport with one tape, for pedestrians by tunnel, entered December, and we have witnessed that Nazrova is neither nearly ready for pedestrians nor for traffic. By the way, the school year has been going on for three months now, and our school students have no secure corridors to their schools. Removing the foundations and digging new ones in the construction of the first elementary school is still going on, and the deadline for setting the foundation stone and starting the construction of the new school was September. We got in December. And according to information obtained from the county, the first elementary school should be in office only in June 2023. How is it possible that the Republic of Croatia has failed to build a single family house during the full 11 months? ordinary people restored over 30,000 objects with their donations. Why don't the stats get back on the field? Do our authorities know that 50% of those objects that were marked with a yellow mark are now in red because new earthquakes are in order? How is it possible that not all the threatening buildings have been removed yet? How is it possible that no family homes with green stickers have yet to be restored? Every house and every Petrina street has its own painful story, and this agony lasts for almost a year. Our Petrinians, on all their enquiries and demands, will receive only excuses, will start these days, starts soon, we expect in the coming time, will be finished in the short term, but they remain only promises, a cold morning on which to wake -4, they remain condensed containers, but they are also left with praise from the minister today who says we are better at withdrawing EU funds from developed EU countries. We're talking about it today. So is it not a shame to say that we are pulling cohesion funds as well as developed countries of the world, and the aim of these cohesion funds is to catch the EU average. I'm asking the government how long? By the time we get eyes on the poor people who got hurt in the earthquake.? [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71605	Mr. Ivan Celic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the last 24 hours 4,751 new cases of infection have been reported with the virus of a new viral coronal disease. 2.412 patients received hospital treatment, of which 320 patients died on the respirator, unfortunately 54 people. Covid certificates, testing, respect for epidemiological measures and vaccination are not stories of individual rights and freedoms but is a common response to how to preserve the health and lives of citizens under new circumstances. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been working in an integrated way to balance economic solutions in order to preserve jobs and not lead to the tension and collapse of the health system. The principle of freedom of conscience is undoubtedly a top principle, but it is not absolutely to bring a proper court of conscience to reach for moral knowledge but also other kinds of knowledge. Some, based on some pseudo-science book or unprofessional Internet commentary, teach what epidemiology is, which is public health, which is infectology, it is important to be informed by experts, and if we ourselves want to talk about something professionally, then it is important that we learn and learn from the right sources. Sometimes it seems that the loudest epidemiologists are those who are on the streets, who tend to their science on aluminium ladders in front of the Croatian Parliament, but epidemiologists and infectologists are in hospitals they work with people who fight for breath, they are in public health institutions where they educate and vaccinate our population. The fall of immunization and the need for so-called. The booster vaccine is again causing suspicion of the purpose of the vaccine, which is completely wrong. The most important thing about vaccinations that are the greatest reach of medicine is that it protects against severe complications of disease and fatal outcomes. Should we vaccinate or not? That's what doctors need to ask. If we look at the number of doctors that were less than 14,400 in Croatia in March 2021, if you ask these Croatian doctors, more than 14,300 people, citizens, will surely say. According to the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention and the German Institute Robert Koch, protection against the infection of people vaccinated was constantly at 80%, with a delta that is dominant at the moment and a much more contagious variant of this estimated effectiveness decreased to 66% in the last four weeks. However, if we look at Israel’s research, it is evident that the third vaccination helps to contain infection. A study by the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention has shown that the risk of infection in vaccines is eight times lower than in those who have not been vaccinated. It is also 25 times less likely that vaccinated persons will have to go to the hospital because of covid or die. The risk of developing severe covid symptoms in people who have not been vaccinated is much higher. On average, every tenth infected person who has not been vaccinated has serious complications that most often require hospitalisation. Here we can also talk about protection from the so-called. a long-term long covid. Vaccinations of course can be infected, can be transmitted and the infection should be told facts, the vaccine still reduces the portability of the virus. The latest Oxford research suggests that people who had contact with the infected person who had been vaccinated have been infected less rarely than those who had contact with an unvaccinated infected person. This study has shown that vaccinated and unvaccinated people have a similar level of virus in their bodies, but that vaccines with less probability carry the virus, which in some ways suggests that their bodies release the virus faster and that it is possible to secrete less infectious viral particles. And in the end when we talk about personal freedoms, there's no right to personal freedom if we talk about infectious diseases. Dear citizens and citizens Vaccinate because the vaccine saves people's lives. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71620	Thank you very much. Ms. Dragana Jeckov will speak for the SDS club's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71621	Thank you. Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. So, 50 years have passed since German Chancellor William Brant's move in Warsaw ghetto, it seems that such moves, after 50 years or so, are not enough for individuals to regain awareness of the fact that the brutal killings of civilians, especially children, are bad and wrong and that they should always be convicted. Yes, individuals who have committed such crimes should be condemned regardless of their faith, nation, or color. Yes, they need to make a clear and loud condemnation and say that they did not do so on behalf of all of us. I'm not just talking about a conviction in the form of prison or indemnity. People like this or inhumans, they actually deserve a fence from all of us. Yesterday's statements by the president of the Republic of Croatia are nothing new in the messianic space, only a continuation of the years of devastation of victims that, for example, exist on our national TV for years on TV Calendar when viewers are reminded that this particular case, Aleksandra Zac, is overcharged. As I said earlier, there is no place for the nation, and it is equally necessary to condemn all criminals and pay respects to those who, because of the cruelty of individuals, became a symbol of an accident such as Goran and Slobodan Cengić, Dario and Tomislav Jurić, Daniela Roknic from Karlovac, Martin Štefančić, Antonija Zeko, Ivan Kljajic and many other children, all those children were children, they had the right to a peaceful dream and a peaceful life. As I said, it's not about a conviction, it's about a conviction for a prison sentence, it's about a conviction of such behavior and fences by these inhumans. By giving the name of the street or square by Aleksandra Zec is a gesture, we are all when we pronounce its name, but also the names of those other children we have the duty and obligation to pronounce them with a feeling of deepest respect, but at the same time with a feeling of contempt for the perpetrators. Zagreb, Osijek, Vukovar, Karlovac cities are forgotten liquidations, banishment and intimidation of many Serbs and nemo have fallen into oblivion. That's why coming to yesterday's memorial ceremony, Mayor Tomaševic became that man from the beginning of this exhibition, and he does exactly what we all need to do to make positive steps, condemn the individual and, more importantly, respect the victim. The cruel and cruel execution of three members of a Zagreb family who were committed 30 years ago by members of the police, and the courts decided to close their eyes only one in a series of reminders why good deeds and crimes, victims and criminals, humanists and opportunists should never be shared on ours and theirs, in fact, when facing the past should not be seen black or white because difficult and evil times are mostly colored by shades and mostly by those dark ones. If they do, they should serve as a reminder that as humans and as a society, we have strayed in a completely wrong direction. We're all human, but it's rare as man.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71622	Thank you. We don't have a position anymore. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:11 A.M.]] The first is Mr. Stipo Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71663	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I'm going to talk about the Rabbit case that was bombed yesterday all day on all the TV programs. The tragedy of the Zac family did not occur as a result of the HV's activities, the tragedy occurred as a result of the robbery of a house that can happen today. Little Alexandra was killed as a tragic unwanted witness to a robbery without any political background. As far as it's a conviction, I don't need to speak, but it's the same for a conviction and for those who are politicizing this case. This is more done by Croatian traitors than by Croatian Serbs SDSS. Here, I'll give you one comparison. Little Martina Štefancic, 4.5. killed on 31.3.92. in Bor's village, so there was no war. It's hate murder. That 4.5-year-old kid. He was killed with his grandmother and an uncle who was badly wounded, only killed because he was a Croatian woman of hatred. This is where I said during the robbery as an unwanted witness, that's a big difference. In Croatia 400 were killed and two children died. And when you go out to Ban Jelačić Square and tell them to name any other child no one will know but only they will know about Alexandra Rabbit. It's a tragedy we don't know any other name than Alexandra Rabbit. Unfortunately, that's what politics allowed, and unfortunately they did it and the media didn't, they don't report it the way it is. I said this was a robbery, an unwanted witness to a robbery, every conviction, but what the children were killed, only 24 children were killed in Vukovar. Little Martina was killed out of hatred, out of hatred because she was only a Croatian, for nothing else. A small, small Antonia of Zeko's prenuptials at the Vukovar hospital died, a prenuptial at the Vukovar hospital. Two pregnant women were killed in Vukovar, Markobasic and Mrs. Mirjana Doshen, who was nine months pregnant, where you will have greater tragedies. Mali Ivan Kljajic, a boy from Vukovar, was killed in the 10th month of shelling. Who was responsible for them? Did their families get one kuna indemnity? I told little Alexander a tragedy without words, but this family received compensation from the Croatian state a million and a half kuna. What did 402 families get for their lost children? What has Croatia done to collect war damages from Serbia? Absolutely nothing, but brought here in 2021 by Minister Medved and Andrej Plenkovic, the Civil Victims of War Act, to be reprimanded as those 402 children in 2021. Terrible, for, for not to believe. And even worse, they actually passed through that law that those who put grenades in mortars or moved cannons that they could win through that law, not these 402 children. Where are their million-dollar damages? How come no one asks about little Martin Štefancic? Did her family get a million-and-a-half refund? Nobody cares, nobody cares. And it's a tragedy of this country that we and the dead children share and don't tell the truth, we're not telling the truth. Alexandra's kid was killed as an unwanted witness to the best robbery that could happen anywhere in any city anywhere in the world. For little Martin Štefancic, no, hate crime, only because she was Croatian. That's a big difference. Why the SDSS Anti-Fascist League Club, why didn't they say that little Martina Štefančić got a street in Borovo village, why it wasn't proposed by the Deputy Prime Minister Milosevic, why they didn't say she got a little Martina Štefancic in Boro's village but they're looking for Aleksandra Zec street in Zagreb which I say was killed during the robbery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u71664	I didn't say before, Mr. Mlinarić spoke on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78399	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Today we vote on the 2022 Budget and the '23 projections. And '24. And three other laws. But before we go, we have 450 amendments. Before we go, I see that there are several requests for breaks, the first colleague is Pavlikek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78400	Dear President of HS, we are looking for a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club in order to further consult, but in order to confirm and make it clear once again that Croatian sovereigns will not support this proposal of the State Budget for 2022. The reason is that almost all our amendments have been rejected and that the state government and government have not recognized the cancer of the early Croatian society, which is demographics. The biggest absurd is that the HDZ Government did not accept the amendment that we wanted to introduce in the entire Republic of Croatia, the Institute of Mother raisers of 500 million kunas because we are convinced that this demographic measure would lead to a demographic renewal in more passive parts of Croatia where women are harder to employ, where the average wage is far lower than the rest, while this same HDZ in the City of Zagreb attacks the mayor because it abolishes this measure. It just shows that both HDZ and We can! They think equally, that neither one of them cares about children, doesn't care about multicolored families, and such moves promotes the culture of death, not the culture of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78401	The apartment is approved. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78402	I'm looking. ... [[/Intruder: What do you want?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78403	/Intruder: Excuse me, colleague Selak Rasdic, what do you need?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78404	Mr. Chairman, I called before the break, I have a proposal for the start of this session today, and I suggest we honor the murdered children in the Homeland War,... Serbian aggressor [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Agreement: My colleagues, my colleagues.]] killed 402 children. [[...Christo, colleagues Kristo.]] Please, allow me, Just let me tell you all the way. [[/Intruder: Just, no, no, no, you won't, no, no, we won't.]] Namely, a child was killed in Vukovar of 6 months.../ [[Intruder: Here you are, colleague Kristo, have a seat.]] Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78405	Comrade Kristo, sit down. No, no, no, this is one abuse, please sit down. ... Please sit down. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no. Please sit down. ... You're getting your first warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78406	The intruder can't be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78407	You're getting a second warning. .../
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78408	The intruder can't be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78409	You're getting a third warning, and now I'm taking away your word for it. After this comes 4 warnings you will have to get out of this hall... Then go ahead and get a 4 warning and you can't, you can't participate in the debate. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Here you go. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] So, colleagues and colleagues when it comes to honor or compassion, we agreed to arrange such things in advance with the President or the Chairman of the Croatian Parliament and then we could do such things. I did this because I think it's an abuse that I don't think is appropriate because it's a very sensitive subject and my colleague Kristo has brought me into a very unpleasant situation. However, defending the Rules of Procedure and defending the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and what I had announced earlier, so that there are agreements on requests for honor, I decided to take away the word of my colleague Vidovic Kristo. So honoring murdered children is something that deserves to be done, and we should do it not only to children but also to all those who have been killed, to civilian victims, to Croatian defenders, we have had many such situations, to the merits of Croatia, but now what she has done is extremely inappropriate, to one of the provocations that she wanted to bring me and everyone else into an awkward situation. So I have to say this for the sake of the Croatian public because I know it will now be an interpretation that I stopped her from doing it, in her noble intention, but this was, in my opinion, one of the most common provocations that she wanted to provoke this reaction. Let's move on now. Let's move on. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78411	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to remind ourselves once again what we could learn from this budget. And that's where we got three bad ones, but also one good lesson. Three bad lessons we could learn are next. First, there was one hospital in Bjelovar and many opposition clubs wanted to help that hospital in Bjelovar, but they got the same explanation, something like that is not in the jurisdiction of this budget but the founder. Once upon a time there was this same hospital in Bjelovar and it occurred to a ruling club to help the same hospital, and imagine their amendment was accepted. And that tells us all about double standards not only within this budget, but unfortunately in the practice of treating people who even have access to medical services. Secondly, what we have learned from this bad lesson concerns the EU funds. Whatever we wanted to improve in this society, every amendment was rejected with an argument that it would be done through EU funds, so we learned that we do not have a budget but only have EU funds that should solve all the key problems of Croatian society. And third, hypocrisy. Amendments that help fight violence against women are reportedly approved, at the same time for 7 years, nor do they bring gender equality policies that should be dealt with systematically. But to be honest, it was a good lesson. At least some items are in the budget and fair and correspond to reality. To fight corruption, you decided to give only 16,000 kunas and did not accept our 10 million that we thought you needed. So we learned what's really being repeated in practice, which is that we're not going to solve corruption, and it's eat both this budget and the GDP growth that you are now promising us. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78412	Stanka, the break is approved. Now it's time for a colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78413	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the state budget is not only a financial act, the state budget is primarily a political act. A political act whereby one state, one government in that country, sends a message that the state wants to manage within the next year. And the message that HDZ's majority sent for 2022 sent all but not good, anything but true. Dear colleagues and colleagues in Croatia are obviously blooming roses, in Croatia everything is obviously wonderful, so in 2022, Croatia will not need to fight corruption. This stems from budget items where no small, no, no funny means to fight corruption. On the other hand, this budget turns out that in 2022 we will have no health problems. The coronary crisis has obviously stopped, all those who, due to the crown, could not access cancer, diabetes and many other diseases have miraculously been cured, because how else do we explain that in the 2022 budget we are dramatically reducing resources for health care? Health care that could not provide medicines for Croatian hospitals this year. Health care that this year could not provide treatment for Croatian citizens. What are we doing? In 2022, these funds that are still not sufficient are being further reduced without doing anything to improve the health system. But for some colleagues and colleagues, there's some money for the planes. And that item is growing from day to day, and as it starts, we're not going to end up with a billion and 200 million Euros but at 2 or far, far more than that. That's why this budget and this budget No one in their right mind can support it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78414	Thank you, comrade Grbin, the break is granted. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78415	Yeah, on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front, I'm looking for a two-minute break to pay attention to what's going to happen here. Pensioners and pensioners, workers and workers, unemployed, evicted this budget should be looked at with care. This budget tells you that it is important to set aside for defence but not for healthcare institutions. Health institutions have received colleagues and colleagues, and you pay attention to this, a billion kunas of less state-owned health institutions, a billion kunas less than last year, but for military planes we have over 2 billion kuna, for that we have. In doing so, Beroš thinks he will centralise health institutions and some that are in the hands of the county will move into the hands of the state. That's why people won't have the opportunity to go to the hospital, so you won't be able to heal yourself, we get worse every year. And as for the defense, those who say we had to set aside for the planes, we didn't have to single out for the planes. A recommendation came from NATO to stand out more for equipment, and less for people, less for the military, means less for workers in the system, and Plenkovic accepted it by accepting everything in his future career. That's why there was no money in this budget for assistants in teaching for children with developmental difficulties, there was no money for an Immunological Institute that would allow us to get rid of the blackmail of wholesalerry in the world's biggest panedemia and start producing our medicines, give some of the DZS, and use, say, the tool that we need for economic development, for that there was no money. There was money for planes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78416	Now it's Comrade Matula's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78417	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc, I'm looking for a 10-minute break, and we want the ruling majority to take advantage of that break. We appeal once again to you to think about whether or not you're going to support any of these of us right now I'm going to count three amendments, but some of the others have already counted, without which we don't think it makes any sense to support this budget. Let's say the helicopter service that only allows on islands and in other places where traffic is unreachable, that people are either from a stroke or from a stroke or from a brain or some other injury arrive in that golden hour. About civic education, it is our amendment and money that would be worth giving to teach children about the rule of law on democratic procedure, on transparency, on corruption, on human rights, on civil rights, on civil freedoms, and, of course, on civil obligations to improve democracy from day to day. In the end, I would like to mention also a very important amendment, which is the question of preserving the film heritage, the heritage of which you colleagues and colleagues are very proud, and that heritage before our eyes is failing. Our colleagues and colleagues from the film profession are alarmingly warning about it, but here's nothing that's gotten to you. I'm asking you to think about it in this brief pause.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78418	We're going on a 6th request for a break, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78419	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. We have before us a vote on the budget for 2022. And I'm asking you to take a 10-minute break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club. For what reason? When we are in times of crisis, and we are in times of crisis, and in some really times where no one would want to live, then the budget that we're about to take was supposed to show a step, we should see what kind of country we want to have in 2030 if we don't already have any idea what kind of country we want to have in 2050. You can't see that in this budget. This budget was made technically correct, but this budget all the time says that you want Croatia to leave where it is now in the society of the worst, in the company of our loyal friends Bulgaria and Romania, that you do not want to take a step. The ease in which you rejected the amendments actually concerns, the ease in which you did not enter into the essence of the amendment at all and what was intended to achieve equally worrying. And there's one magic word, one magic saying, and that's all going to be solved through NPOO, and you might believe that we don't already have a year's funding from the Solidarity Fund that's meant to rebuild public purpose buildings after the earthquake that was. Where are we? After a year, we haven't spent nearly 1% of the funds in the account of the Ministry of Finance or our treasury, we have six months left. How can anyone believe that we will make good, quality and successful use of NPOO-related funds when we have in reality an indication that this is not done. Therefore, this budget is not a step forward, this budget does not offer the future, this budget offers the bottom for Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78420	The apartment will be approved. Now it's my colleague Bernardic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78421	Your Honor. We are looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club because we have not yet received an answer to the question why the Government Office or the Government Building plans to spend an additional 250 million kuna compared to this year, so at a time when the economy has not yet recovered from the crisis since the first lockdown, when GDP has not yet reached the level of GDP from 2019 we have the situation that inflation gallopes, the cost of life for citizens is increasing, the costs for entrepreneurs are increasing, and at the same time the investment activity is decreasing. The whole of Europe is preparing for a crisis, and our government is acting like nothing's happening. Because how else do you explain that in 2022? You're practically not planning on supporting the economy at all. From the six billion you've shared for the purposes of the 2020 elections to the miserable promiscuities, the miserable millions you're planning to help the economy in 2022, not to say that the health system is on the verge of strength. It is simply at the edge of sustainability, debts threatened by the blockade of the normal functioning of the system, and in the health budget you reduce by 4 billion kuna next year. My question is, will the hardworking workers of the health system face all the problems in the health system again, the whole burden of the crisis? And what's embarrassing for the end is that you like to boast about fighting corruption, and at the same time for that same fight against corruption, you've only secured a miserable 16 thousand kuna. If each budget mirror is the work of every government then in this mirror is a very clear picture, it is bloated, without content, without ideas and without plan, where Croatia goes in 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78422	The apartment is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go. [[Don't throw it away.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78423	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the IDS Club, the club that proposed this 57-year-old budget of $1522 million, was granted about a third of a million-dollar amendment, so we have a billion 521 million more reasons why we won't accept and support this budget. The IDS club that tries, I hope you notice it in this assembly, avoids heavy pulsism and demagogy and attacks its opponents personally, even if it sometimes costs us some political punates. Through constructive discussions, we are trying to increase a little democracy in this House, introduce a culture of democracy, and then expect that when some amendments are proposed, we will also, on the other hand, feel this culture of democracy on the other hand, so how little naive and utopian it may seem, especially when the amendments aim to create an additional value in society. And perhaps when it is so much called for Europe and the EU to look a little at how the European Parliament works, not only are opposition amendments to the budget accepted but also many laws. He tries to reach a compromise through committees and working groups, and sometimes in the majority vote he is also part of the opposition who support it, and sometimes someone from the ruling majority is not happy, so he does not vote for it. I think these are the democratic frameworks that we need to pursue colleagues and colleagues and it's been 30 years. since the introduction of the democracy of multilaterals into the Republic of Croatia, so maybe it's time to become a modern democratic society. But every time there's an opportunity to take a step forward, then we see two steps back and then you don't need to be surprised when someone calls and attacks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78424	Now it's time for fellow Spijic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78425	Your Honor, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club because I want to warn you of one important item in the RS budget, and that is, watch out for this, the housing of the exiles of the returnees and refugees. In the next 3 years. Almost 3 billion kunas will be set aside for this item. It is clear to all of us that we have not had any exiles or refugees in Croatia for a long time, so I want to know what they're going to be into. We all want to know what that money's going to be spent in. Will refugees and exiles be as people today as we read on the front page of the Portal Index... A Pakistani who trams people in Zagreb, we want to set aside 3 billion kuna for these people while our citizens leave Croatia and seek a better future? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to get that out in public once what we're going to single out that money for. At the same time, our amendments were not accepted where we asked to increase, raise funds for reconstruction in Banovina. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78426	The apartment is approved. And at the end of the 10 demands, colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78427	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to once again show and prove that this budget as well as everyone before is actually harder for our country to develop as high as possible. It is a political document and a significant document that says that despite several waves of pandemic and two earthquakes, we have really installed everything we expect to improve in the coming period. What is very important is that revenue in this budget is increased by 7.1% and expenditure is only 0.5%. This means that it is being tackled precisely by the expenditure side of the budget, which will contribute to the fact that our public debt that fell over 8% in the previous year is now at the level of those countries and that faster and stronger is actually managed by it and thus to be in the top 4 EU countries. What should be pointed out is that this budget also increases funds for both earthquake expenditure and social care, as well as for pension and pension funds, as well as for staff expenditures. All this says is that it is well managed and that NPOOs will reduce or increase GDP by 1 and a half percent per year. This is very significant, and all colleagues who believe that they are not investing in all parts of Croatia that are very much investing, but let us also develop those parts of Croatia that have not developed so far. Therefore, show as little solidarity as you have developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78428	Thank you all for asking for a break. By art. 293.b. We will continue, but before that I see her another violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasudić please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78429	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. We're talking about solidarity and quality development, and you didn't want to give one kuna per diabetic in Croatia to have a place to store your medical waste, to meet the basic need of life that they were forced to do and then to talk about quality or to admire solidarity here with your rest. This is the height of hypocrisy, and I had to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78430	Okay, and you're gonna have to get a warning, so I'm asking you to register it. We are now going to vote on the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. and projection for 2023 and 2024. with a proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and a projection for '23. and in '24, proposals for financial plans for extra- budget users are also submitted. These are: Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Centre for Restructuring and Sales, Croatian Highways, HZ Travel Transport and HZ Infrastructure. The debate was concluded, the review of the amendments was submitted by electronic means, and the statement was carried out earlier in the session. We will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Well, we're on our way. 1st Amendment to the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia of Slovenia, Marija Selak Rasludic, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. Two of the same MPs, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 3 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 4th Amendment of Representative Sabine Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5 Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 6th Amendment of Representative Sabine Voter is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 7th amendment, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 8th Amendment by Sabina Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 9th Amendment of MP Katica Glamuzina, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Sanja Udovic's 10th Amendment, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 11 Representative Sabina Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 12 MPs, Veljak Katasia, have been accepted. Amendment No. 13, the SDP advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 14, MP Zeljko Lenart, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 15th amendment, the SDP Representatives Club, has been withdrawn. The 16th Amendment of MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Marine MP Opačak Bilic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 17th amendment, the same MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 18th Amendment, the same MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 19th amendment, MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Romano Nikolic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 20, same MPs, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 21st Amendment of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 22. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 23rd amendment of the Green-left bloc advocates club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 24th Amendment, MP Zeljko Lenart, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 25, MP Marijan Pavlikek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 26th Amendment Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 27. Amendment to the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the Government accepts in a modified form what the applicant has accepted and becomes an integral part of the budget in a modified form. 28th Amendment Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Now come Amendment 29. The Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, which was withdrawn, the 30th legislator Peović, withdrawn, MP Lenart 31st withdrawn and representative Sabine Glasovac 32nd withdrawn. The 33rd amendment of MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 34th Representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 35th Amendment of the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 36. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 37th Amendment, MP Hajdukovic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 38th Amendment of MP Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment of the 39th same representative by the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 40th Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 41st Highdukovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 42nd voter's representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 43rd amendment of MP Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 44th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 45th Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 46th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 47th amendment, MP Vidovic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 48, MP Pavliček, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 49th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 50th Amendment, MP Bauk, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 51st Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 52nd amendment of MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 53rd Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Who's in? The government doesn't accept. Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 54. The same club of MPs again, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 55. Same club again, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 56th Representative Franco Vidovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 57. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 58. The Center and Voice Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 59. The Center and Voice Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Parliamentarian Romana Nikolic's 60th amendment, the government does not accept. Who's in? Restraint? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 61st Amendment Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 62. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 63rd of the same Club of Representatives, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. In 64, the same club of MPs again, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 65. The Center and Voice Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 66th Same Club of Representatives, Government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 67th Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 68th amendment, the Green-left bloc advocates club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 69th amendment, MP Selak Rasudic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 70th Amendment, representative of Hajdash Doncic, who's in favour? The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 71st amendment, the Green-left bloc's green-left club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 72nd Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 73rd amendment, representative of Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 74th amendment, MP Marin Miletic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. In 75, Agent Lenart, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He's not accepted. In 76, Lenart was accepted in a modified form, he agreed to do so and in the amended form of amendments became an integral part of the budget. The 77th Amendment, IDS Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 78th Amendment, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 79, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 80th Amendment, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 81st, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 82nd Amendment, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 83rd Amendment, IDS Representatives' Club was accepted in the amended form, thereby the applicant agreed to become an integral part of the budget in the amended form. The 84th Amendment, representative of Frank Vidovic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment was not accepted. 85th Amendment, MP Sanja Radolovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 86th Amendment, representative of Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 87, MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Romana Nikolic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 88th Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the Most, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment was not accepted. The 89th Amendment, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 90th Amendment of MP Vesna Vucilović was adopted in an amended form, which was agreed by the applicant and became an integral part of the budget in the amended form. The 91st Amendment, MP Lenart, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 92st Amendment of Parliamentary Glasses is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 93rd Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 94th Amendment, MP Lenart, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In '95, Agent Lenart again, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 96, the same agent, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 97, the same MP again, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 98th MP, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 99, Lenart, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 100th Amendment of MP Vucilovic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 101st Representative Dark Taritash, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 102, Agent Lenart, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 103rd, the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 104th representative of Petrov, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Highdukovic and Romana Nikolic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 106th Agent Lenart, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 107th Agent Lenart, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 108th Agent Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 109th Grmoy's representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 110th Lawmaker, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 111, the government does not accept the vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 112. Green-left bloc representatives' club is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 113. HNS, HSU and independent representatives' club has been accepted. MP Peovic, the government does not accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 115. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 116th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 117, Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 118th Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 119, also a representative of Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 120th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 121. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 122, MP Marin Miletic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 123st representative Petrov, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 124. Same MP, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 125. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Vucimilovic's 126th amendment, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 127th representative Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 128th Radolovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 129. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 130. MP Vucimilovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Udovic, 131st, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 132. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 133rd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 134. IDS agent club, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Once again, the IDS Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 136. Again, the IDS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Once again, IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 138. Once again, IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 139. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 140. Again IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 141st again IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 142. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 143. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 144. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 145. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Once again, IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 147 again IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 148th Again IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 149 again IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 150th representative Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 151st, the same representative again, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 152. Same MP, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 153. Voter, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 154. Representative Franco Vidovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 155th deputy Marin Miletic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 156th Radolovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 157, MP Vucimilovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 158th again, MP Marin Miletic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 159th representative Ruzica Vukovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Representative Kujundzic, 160th Amendment, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 161st, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 162, the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 163, Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 164, Green-left block advocates' club, who's in favor? The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 165, Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 166, MP Marin Miletic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 167, the Center and Voice Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 168, the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 169, Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 170, Center and GLAS's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 171, the centre and GLAS representatives club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 172, MP Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 173, the Centre and Voice Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 174, again the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 175, MP Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 176, MP Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 177, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 178, the Centre and Voice Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 179, same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 180, Representative Hajdukovic, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 181, MP Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 182, Agent Lenart, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 183, the Center and Voice Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 184, MP Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 185, MP Vukilovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 186. Representative Pavliček, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 187th voter, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 188. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 189, Highdukovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 190th Lawmaker, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 191st representative Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 192. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 193. Representative Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 194th is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 195, the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 196 MP Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 197, MP Michel Jaksic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 198. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 199th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 200th Radolovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 201, the same MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 202nd amendment is again the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 203rd amendment, MP Pavliček, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 204 again, MP Pavliček, the government does not accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 205 too, MP Pavliček, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 206. Representative Selak Rasdic. Who's in? The government doesn't accept it. Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 207. Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 208th representative, Romana Nikolic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 209th Representative Dark Taritash. Who's in? The government doesn't accept it, I apologize. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 210th Representative Ban Vlahek. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 211. Same MP, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 212th voter's representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 213th MP Nikolic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 215th representative of Dark Taritash, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Mr Ban Vlahek, 216, accepted the government in an amended form, in which the applicant agreed and the amendment in the amended form became an integral part of the budget. The 217th representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 218th Lawmaker, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 219th amendment of MP Selak Rasupdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 220th Amendment of MP Ban Vlahek, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 221 Grmoi MP, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 22nd amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 223, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 224. Lawmakers, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 225. The MOST advocates' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 226. Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 227, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 228. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Parliamentarian Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 230th Representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 231st Radolovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Radolovic, 232, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 233, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Representative Jaksic, 234, does not accept the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 235. The Center and Voice Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Representative Selak Rasdic, 236, does not accept the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 237 of the same MPs were withdrawn. 238. Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 239. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 240. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 241. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 242. The same Club of Representatives, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. There's now a series of IDS MPs 243. The government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 244. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 245. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 246th also IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 247. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 248. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 249. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 250. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 251st again IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 252. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 253. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 254. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 255. The Center and Voice Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 256th representative, Dark Taritash, does not accept the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 257th representative of Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 258th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 259, the same representative again, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 260, the same MP again, the government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 261st again, the government does not accept Hajdash Doncic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 262. Representative Petrov, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 263. Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 264. Same MP, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 265th Highdukovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 266. Representative Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 267, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 268, legislator Franco Vidovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 269th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 270th MP Opačak Bilic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 271st representative, Peovic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 272. A SDP representative club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 273rd Greek representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 274. Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 275, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 276. Representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 277th voter, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 278. Green-left bloc representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 279th representative Romana Nikolic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 280th Representative Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 281st Representative Pavliček, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Radolovic, 282, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 283th voter's representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Representative Romana Nikolic, 284, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 285. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 286. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 287. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 288, MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 289. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 290, too, the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 291, it was withdrawn, it was an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, 292, the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 293 Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't make it. 294. The Center and Voice Representatives' Club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 295, same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 296, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 297, the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 298. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 299, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 300. IDS counseling club, who's in favour? The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 301st, the IDS Attorney's Club is not accepting. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 302. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 303, IDS again, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 304, once again, the IDS Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 305. Again IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 306. IDS agent club, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 307. IDS agent club, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 308. IDS agent club, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 309th Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 310th Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78432	Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get most of the votes. 311 MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 312th Amendment of Representative Sanja Radolovic. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the number he needed. Amendment 313 of the same agent. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 314 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Who's in? The government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 315th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 316th amendment is not accepted by the government by Katarina Peovic. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 317th amendment is not accepted by the government's representative of the Most Club. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 318th Amendment of the Mira Bulja Club, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u78433	The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now on the 319th Amendment of MP Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. In 320, the same MPs, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 321st amendment by MP Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 322nd Representative Damir Bajs, the government does not accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. In 323, MP Opačak Bilic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 324. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 325th Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 326, MP Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Representative Selak Rasludic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 328th Representative Dark Taritash, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 329th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 330th Radolovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 331st Representative Dark Taritash, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 332. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 333rd Representative Dark Taritash, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 334th Amendment, Selak Rasludic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 335. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. 336, MP Dark Taritash, the government has not accepted, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 337, MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 338th representative, Vucimilovic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 339. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 340. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 341. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 342. The same Club of Representatives, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 343. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 344 again IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 345. IDS representative club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 346 again IDS, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 347. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 348 again, the IDS Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 349. IDS, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 350. Voter's representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 351st Lenart, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Representative Maric, 352, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 353rd legislator Maric again, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Representative Radolovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 355th Radolovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 356. Representative Franco Vidovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 357. Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 358th Amendment of MP Mira Totgergelia accepted in the amended form by which the applicant agreed and became an integral part of the budget in the amended form of amendments. 359th Representative Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The same representative of the 360th Amendment, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 361st MP Ahmetovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 362. Representative Sacic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. In 363, re-legating Sacic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 364, the same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 365th same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 366. MP Ahmetovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Councilwoman Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't get enough votes. The 368th Amendment of MP Sabine Vosovac, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get enough votes. In 369, MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 370. The centre and GLAS representatives' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. We are now going to review the amendments to the proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2022 and a projection for '23. And '24. 1st Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 2nd is a representative of Bulja, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 3rd amendment also is not accepted by Representative Bulj, the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 4th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 5th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Amendment 6 is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 7th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 8th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 9th Amendment again, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 10th Amendment, Representative Bulj, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 11th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 12th amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 13th Amendment is the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 14th Amendment, MP Petrov, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Amendment 15, MP Vlasic Iljkic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. We are now going to the amendments concerning the proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Roads for the '22s. and a projection for '23. And '24. 1st Amendment The Club of Representatives of the Most, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment by the Greek representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment, Representative Petrov, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 1. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 1. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st and Bridge, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. One again, the Bridge, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment, Representative Petrov, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Representative Jaksic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 1. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 16. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 17 again, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 18. The Bridge counseling club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. Mr. Grmoy's 19th representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 20th same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 21st same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 22nd representative of the bush again, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 23. The Greek representative again, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 24 again, Nikola Grmoy, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 25. Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 26th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 27 again, Miro Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 28th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 29th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Mr. Bulj, 30, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 31st Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 32nd same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 33rd Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 34th same representative, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 35th Amendment, MP Miletic, is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. The 36th representative of Marin Miletic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He's not accepted. Representative Kujundzic, 37, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get enough votes. The 38th relegator Kujundzic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Councilman Kujundzic, 39, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 40th again, MP Kujundzic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 41st again, MP Kujundzic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. The 42nd representative Vlasic Iljkic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 43. MP Ahmetovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 44th MP Miletic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 45. Representative Mosta's club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 46th MP Kujundzic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 47th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 48th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 49th of the same MP, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 50th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. 51st Relegation Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 52nd Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 53rd Relegation Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 54th same MP, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 55th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 56th same agent, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 57th same representative, government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. 58th Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 59st Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. The 60th Representative of Bulja, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. Now let's see the amendments, this is the proposal for a financial plan of the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency for 2022 and a projection of the '23 plan. And '24. 1st Amendment, Representative Bulj, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. 1st Amendment the same representative, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't make it. We are now going to review the amendments to the proposal for a financial plan for the '22 HZZO. and a projection for '23. and '24.1. MP Andreja Maric's amendment, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't make it. We are now going to review amendments related to the Privilege of the Financial Plan HZ-Infrastructure for the '22s. and a projection of the '23 plan. And '24. And these are the last two amendments. He's his first colleague, Hejdas Doncic. The government doesn't accept him. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. And the latest amendment by MP Martina Vlasic Iljkic, who is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment didn't go through. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to vote on the State Budget Proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the state budget require most of all MPs, so 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and the projection for 2023 and 2024. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 126 MPs and MPs voted, 77 were against and 49 were against and thus was adopted by the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the proposals of the extra- budget beneficiaries' financial plans for 2022 and the 2023 and 2024 projections. Can we vote united? You agree as in the last few times? So, I'll read all the decisions. First, the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters, the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency, the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian highways, the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Travel Transport and the decision to give consent to the financial plan of HZ Infrastructure. So 9 decisions for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 125 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 48 against and thus decided on granting consent to financial plans, 9 decisions. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, it shall put forward a proposal for a conclusion which shall read. The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised, together with the representatives of the proposal, to carry out a draft text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024, as well as proposals for financial plans of non-profit users for 2022 and projections for the 2023 and 2024 years of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, HZZ, Restructure and Sales Centre, Croatian Motorways, HZ Travel Transport, HZ Infrastructure prior to their publication in the National Journal. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 117 MPs and MPs voted, all of them were in favour and you have expressed great confidence in the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament and I congratulate them on that. Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, second reading, P.Z. Number 203. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 124 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 47 against and thus passed the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80719	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept that amendment. The proposal for an amendment is not in accordance with Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80720	Who's going to show up? Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80721	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I do not accept your argument and ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80722	Then we'll vote on that amendment. Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 2nd of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80723	That amendment is not accepted. The proposal for an amendment does not comply with Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80724	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80725	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I do not accept your argument and ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80726	Then let's also vote on the 2nd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club which the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now let's go to Amendment No. 3rd of the same club of MPs. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80727	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment. The proposal for an amendment is not in accordance with Directive 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80728	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80729	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course I don't agree with your argument and I ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80730	Let us also vote on the 3rd amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't pass, he didn't get the votes he needed. And I'm asking the Secretary of State for an explanation of the fourth position of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80731	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment. The reasons for the adoption of the amendments would result in additional financial burden on citizens and entrepreneurship, as the amount already envisaged would have to be raised for renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80732	Here's another sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80733	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. What you have just said is simply not true, since the compensation for renewable energy sources is very high enough, and indeed it is paid by all those citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have and do not have to settle electricity bills. So your argument absolutely does not stand, I do not accept it, and I ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80734	Let us also vote on the 4th amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so we will now approach the vote on the final proposal for a Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 122 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 29 abstentions and 16 were against, and thus we adopted the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration. We will now take a break of 10 minutes, after which are free speeches, after which we will go according to the agenda, first the Final Proposal of the Budget Law, then the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expenses Act. Tomorrow morning we begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. MEETING AT 12:55 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80735	We no longer have positions and we move on to the next item of the agenda, which is: -The final proposal of the Budget Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 227. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation Rules of procedure on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda and the proposal of the Proposer has been adopted for this law to be discussed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate per Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. With us is the Secretary of State, Mr. Stipe Mayor of the Ministry of Finance, who will give us an introduction to this law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80736	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal of the Budget Act. The budget law regulates areas directly related to planning, construction, adoption and implementation of the state budget, as well as the budget of units of local and regional self-government, the management of assets and debts, the management of the debt of the general budget, the borrowing and granting of guarantees, budgetary relations in the public sector, budgetary accounting, budgetary supervision and other issues. The provisions of the Budget Act apply partly to non-financial users, companies and other legal persons in which the State or the unit of local and regional self-government has a decisive impact on governance which is classified in the general budget sector. The current Budget Law has largely achieved the initial objectives among which the establishment of fiscal discipline has been one of the most significant. However, the development of an efficient and sustainable system of public finances management requires an institutional framework which, in addition to ensuring fiscal discipline, will also be more focused on ensuring strategic asset allocations, as well as more efficient provision of public services. It is also necessary to implement compliance with the Council Directive of 2011. No. 85th on requests for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. The proposed law defines both budgetary and extra-financial users more precisely than current regulations. Out-of- budget users shall be classified as Group 1 and Group 2. The definition of extra budget users is particularly important in the context of the commitments the Republic of Croatia has towards the EU in the planning and reporting process on the implementation of the budget based on the statistical methodology of the EU. The non-financial users of Group 1 which are entered in the register of extra-financial users shall be subject to certain provisions of the law in such a way as to be almost identical to those of the budgetary users. For other non-financial users, the obligation to supply certain data shall be prescribed. For budgetary users with a series of doubts about the application in practice, it now states that the founder of the budgetary user must be exclusively the Republic of Croatia and/or the units of local and regional self-government or the budgetary user may also be a component of a body or institution that is the sole founder, which is the founder of only the Republic of Croatia and/or the units of local and regional and regional self-government. As regards the budgetary and financial planning process, the macroeconomic and fiscal framework which now includes assumptions and basic parameters on the basis of which macroeconomic projections are made, comparison of macroeconomic projections with the latest available European Commission projections, projections by types of income and expenditure of the general government budget on the basis of the fiscal effects of unchanged policies and envisaged medium-term policies, multi-annual budgetary targets identified by indicators of the lack of or excessive general government budget, public debt and general government debt, and expenditure of the general government budget, which must be in line with fiscal rules and laws governing fiscal responsibility, as well as a demonstration of deficits or surplus, and long units which, in accordance with the rules of the ESA 2010 statistical methodology, are classified in the general state sector and which have a significant impact on the movement of deficit and surplus budget and debt of the general state. It is also prescribed that macroeconomic and budgetary projections are subject to an impartial and comprehensive assessment of the independent body responsible for the assessment of fiscal policy whose results are taken into account when drawing up future macroeconomic and budgetary projections in accordance with the provisions of the legal and sub-legislative rules governing fiscal accountability. The budgetary process also includes drawing up a draft budget plan, which the government will be obliged to submit to the European Commission by 15 October at the latest after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Euro area. This document, which is developed through the Stability and Growth Pact, defines the macroeconomic and fiscal framework of each of the Member States of the Euro area in the next financial year and to ensure a coordinated economic policy of the euro area Member States. The novelty in relation to the applicable law is that the Assembly also adopts a budget for the financial year and projections for the next two years at the level of the group of economic classifications while the current budget for the financial year is adopted at the sub-group level. The same shall apply to granting consent to the proposal for a financial plan of the extra budget user. These will allow greater flexibility in budget implementation and more efficient budgetary management. It is important to note that data will continue to be entered into the State Treasury system at section level, and all reports related to the implementation of the budget will be adopted at section level, ensuring an equal level of transparency with increased management efficiency. A commitment shall also be made to the departments to draw up more detailed instructions for budgetary and extra-financial users from their competence in which, among other things, they grant limits to their budgetary users, including the third level of users. This will achieve a better quality of consolidated finance plans of the ministries with a large number of budget users, and ensure a smooth process of their implementation. It shall also be specified in detail the conduct of budgetary and extra-financial beneficiaries in cases where the proposal for their financial plans differs from the final financial plan adopted by the Assembly. For the purpose of making more efficient implementation of EU projects through the bill, the redistribution of resources within the source of funding for general income and receipts is also possible, up to 15% at the level of the economic classification group adopted by the Assembly or the representative body of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, if this ensures an increase in the funds of the participation planned to finance projects financed by EU funds. A special report is being introduced in the use of EU funds within the Annual Budget Implementation Report. It is prescribed that the budgetary user of the state budget responsible for the allocation of funds under an EU programme may initiate a procedure for the allocation of funds up to 10% above the level of the funds set for each priority, and above that amount it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Government, thus improving the procedures for the renegotiation. It is also prescribed that if the competent authorities determine to verify that the funds for projects financed from EU funds are spent incorrectly, the budgetary user of the state budget allocated must immediately request the repayment of the budget to the state budget in accordance with the rules and deadlines set for each programme, or the EU fund. For funds on behalf of unacceptable costs in projects financed from EU funds, which are required by the budget of the state budget to be paid into the EU budget, on the basis of the requirements for the payment of EU competent authorities, the draft law requires that they be implemented from their own revenues and on the burden of specific activities within the financial plan of the users. It is prescribed that in order to assume obligations under the contracts required for payment in the coming years and co-financing from EU funds and aid from foreign governments, it is necessary to establish the consent of the Government if the value of the contract exceeds the amount set out in the Law from the implementation of the state budget. As regards budgetary explanations, the content of the budget is complemented in a way that the justification becomes an integral part of the budget both at the state and at the level of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, as well as with their budgetary and extra-financial users. The proposal for a law also provides for the obligations of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, but also of budgetary and extra-financial users to publish information on budget spending on their websites in such a way that this information is easily available and searched. The publication of statistical information in accordance with the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of EU Member States shall be arranged by the central authority responsible for statistics and by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the obligations of the publication of budgetary documents and of the guides for citizens are detailed. As regards the report on the implementation of the budget, it is prescribed in a system and detailed manner, as well as processes and key documents of production and adoption and implementation, both the state budget and the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. It also introduces the obligation to draw up reports on the implementation of the financial plan for all budgetary users. It also introduces the obligation to draw up an annual report on the implementation of the Multiannual Balance Plan for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government Units, as well as their budgetary and non-financial users. It also introduces obligations for the ministries, units of local and regional (regional) self-government for the adoption of acts that will formally regulate the pursuit and use of non-intentional donations and their own income. In addition, the conditions under which the revenue of the budget can be classified as intended are discussed. For units of local and regional (regional) self-government and their budgetary and extra-financial users, an obligation shall be introduced to draw up a Multi-annual Balance Plan as a separate document to be adopted in addition to the budget, or financial plan, if these users are not able to transfer the deficit or surplus to be fully settled or used in the financial year. It is also an obligation for the budgetary users of the state budget, which are legislators of the law to submit a new fiscal assessment to the Ministry of Finance prior to the adoption of the amendments to the law, to amend the fiscal assessment compared to the assessment of the day under the draft law. Obligations and representatives of the Government shall be introduced in the body responsible for interpreting collective agreements, thereby altering the fiscal assessment of the implementation of collective agreements in relation to the assessment of the day before the adoption of a conclusion on the acceptance of collective agreements, that prior to the formal interpretation of the acquisition by the competent budgetary user of the state budget from which the collective contract is part, a new fiscal assessment, which must include the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, the obligation to draw up an ex post analysis of the effectiveness and justification of the implementation of the programme of activities or projects or of certain types of expenditure, expenditure of budgetary and extra-financial beneficiaries of the state budget, i.e. the obligation to draw up reports on the results of the expenditure analysis and expenditure which will contain recommendations to improve the efficiency and expenditure of the budget and to identify potential improvements in the allocation of existing expenditure and expenditure, their transparency and the necessary additional analyses of the effectiveness of individual programmes. The report on the results of the analysis, the Ministry of Finance, is delivering to the government for adoption by the end of the current year. It is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that in the event of a crisis, in accordance with the law governing a system of homeland security or disaster, in accordance with the law governing a civil protection system, decisions can be made by means of which activities related to the resolution of the consequences of the crisis or disaster will be financed. To finance these activities, the funds can be provided by redistribution without restrictions on existing and subsequently established budgetary items, activities and projects for which the funds are provided and which can be provided with aid and loans to general budget entities. In relation to the units of local and regional (regional) self-government in the event of special circumstances, the representative body may, by means of a decision on the implementation of the budget, authorise the mayor, mayor and mayor to make decisions to provide funding for measures and activities related to these specific circumstances, including decisions on redistributions without restrictions. The proposal for a law lays down in more detail provisions for the handling of State guarantees, changes and additions to the State guarantee, as well as the supervision and monitoring of the implementation of the loan or loan agreement with the State guarantee, including the assessment of the impact on public finances. The adoption of a Government regulation laying down more detailed criteria, state guarantees approval procedures, as well as supervision of the use of implementation of funds and conditions under which the State guarantee can be amended and complemented. With regard to long-term borrowing of units of local and regional self-government, long-term borrowing opportunities are extended, with the exception of investment, the bill will stipulate that units of local and regional self-government and regional self-government can be granted a debt for capital aid to companies and other legal entities owned or co-owned by units of local and regional self-government for the realisation of investments co-financed by EU funds as well as for investments or projects whose realisation is established by specific regulations and which create a commitment to the participation of units in the same. It also allows for the borrowing of units to finance commitments on behalf of the reimbursement of unacceptable costs co-financed by EU funds. The bill further regulates the process of borrowing units of local and regional or regional self-government for projects co-financed by EU funds. It is prescribed and in accordance with the practice so far that the amount of unit borrowing for projects co-financed by EU funds up to the total eligible cost of the EU project does not enter into the calculation of the annual obligation of units of local and regional self-government. It is also prescribed that units receive EU funds and/or aid for co-financing from the state budget relating to the implementation of the projects they are in charge of spend on paying off their debts. Further decentralisation of the debt management of units of local and regional (regional) self-government is also introduced by facilitating the possibility of refinancing and reprogramming of existing loans and loans. If the re-programme or re-financing does not increase the rate of responsibilities of units of local and regional self-government, it will give consent to the finance minister and, in cases where the debt rate is increasing, the government gives consent. Under current unit regulations, local and regional self-governments may only reprogramme or refinance debt under certain conditions. It is also prescribed that the borrowing of out-of- budget users of units of local and regional self-government and other legal entities owned or co-owned by units shall not be included in the scope of the borrowing of units of local and regional self-government, except in the case of issuing guarantees from units for the same. In addition, for the purpose of more efficient liquidity management, these legal entities may in the long term be in debt outside the purpose of which they are not solely related to the investment. The proposal for a law stipulates that the calculation of the unit's debt includes the commitments made in the last available financial report while the current law stipulates that unsettled commitments from previous years have been made in the calculation. In this way, the fiscal capacity of a local unit as well as regional or regional self-government is more clearly and transparently determined. Finally, the application of the provisions of this proposal creates preconditions for ensuring the medium- and long-term sustainability of public finances and direct economic effects will be visible through other legal and sublegal acts which must be within the framework of the prescribed principles and rules laid down in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80737	Thank you, too. You have several replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here we are today and through your opening presentation, through certain newspaper articles today we have seen that this law will bring transparency to spend certain funds, so perhaps my question may better say, the clarification when it was in the debate whether in the media it refers only to some local sheriffs, that they will have to show the bills, the costs where they ran I don't know, means the specific question, whether now the adoption of this law was known here recently to us by President Macron, means how much is the cost of that account, will the government mean if they adopt this law, when it's the cost of that lunch, how much the cost was, who was it, is the purpose? Okay, here we know that the purpose of diplomatic or adoption is, etc., but does this mean, in particular, the application of this law, will it mean that both the ministries and the government will publish such information, i.e. I don't know, Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests also want to honor someone or I don't know, intellectual services, will they know exactly who they paid for and for what purpose? It's very specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80739	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80740	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, you are right, so as I have said, the bill prescribes a commitment not only to local and regional self-government units, but also to budgetary and extra-financial users to publish that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80741	Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80742	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Here, an hour ago, we voted in the 2022 budget with projections in 2023 and 2024, and there was a lot of doubt about how these funds would be implemented, which is now going to happen, how these funds will be used. So, this budget law under which the 2022 budget will be implemented, what does it bring specifically in terms of flexibility and use of funds in the budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80743	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80744	Thank you very much. So I have already pointed out in the opening statement, so precisely with the aim of increasing flexibility, we are actually going to go to the second group of economic classifications, which will actually allow for greater flexibility in the implementation of the budget, however, there is a really important reference to transparency and data publication, we will continue to display all data at section level and in fact all reports related to the implementation of the budget will be adopted at section level, which will actually ensure an equal level of transparency, of course with increased governance efficiency. In addition, it is important to note that, due to the obligations under Directive 85/2011, at the requirements of the budgetary frameworks of the Member States, we have set out in detail and the way of budget planning in this law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80745	Thank you. Mr. Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80746	Thank you very much, Chairman. Secretary of State, so I see that we started from the beginning, or with the words "transparentity", "decentralization", that's nice to hear, I hope that we will finally do some things both at local and at all levels. Of course, there's a lot of talk about these local sheriffs and their transparency. I think there's been a lot of mistake here because it was still acting on the basis of the law that existed. So I am interested in whether this concrete decentralisation that will be carried out through the units of local self-government is currently bringing results and through this shift from 5 to 15% of the potential within the budget itself, because of the European enlargement funds, therefore the possibility of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80747	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80748	Thank you, Your Honor, that in the last 15 years, I would say that significant steps have actually been taken with regard to the transparency of the budget and the participation of citizens in budgetary processes both at national and local level. Fiscal transparency has also been highlighted through the application of the provisions of the Budget Law, but also through instructions from the Ministry of Finance for each financial year when drawing up the budget of units of local, regional or regional self-government. So, in fact, we have already given instructions for this year, or instructions to units of local, regional, regional self-government that they publish their data on the spending of funds in a predictable and clear machine-readable way so that the same information is easily available and searched by citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80749	Mrs. Ankica Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80750	Dear Secretary of State, this new Budget Law has prescribed a number of new obligations for local and regional (regional) government units. One of these new commitments is also the making of budget explanations, making the budget so as to amend and supplement the budget as well as the half-year and annual report on the implementation of the budget. Do you feel that these provisions will also increase transparency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80751	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80752	Well, regarding budget reasoning obligations, in fact, at the level of local self-government, the situation differs significantly from units to units. We actually wanted to put emphasis on introducing medium-term budgetary planning and programme planning in line with EU best practice. And that is why we have actually seen that the explanation becomes an increasingly significant part of the budget, or financial plan, and that it should be focused on the interpretation of the objectives or results of the project programmes that are to be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80753	Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80754	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, with all due respect for your function, I must admit and speak plainly here that I am actually concerned and saddened that the Minister of Finance does not defend this law, long-awaited and basic law of its action. What I'd like to ask you about is this law or your proposal. The Croatian Parliament adopts a budget for the financial year and projections for the next 2 financial years at the level of the group of economic classification, which brings you back a step as far as planning is concerned. So my question is how are we going to vote for your proposed budget when we know, for example, how much resources you've planned for a group of recreation, culture and religion, but we're not going to know how much of the share per sub-community, or how much that's going to get, and how much religion. Don't tell me about the flexibility of spending money it's just creating space to spend the money that's what you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80755	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80756	So I'm going to have to tell you about flexibility because it was really the goal of this change. You were talking about some programs, we said at the level of the economic classification group. I, of course, pointed out that it is important to point out that the data will continue to be entered into the State Treasury system at the level of the department as it has so far and all the reports related to the implementation of the budget will be adopted at the level of the department, thus ensuring that the same level of transparency is actually ensured with increased efficiency. In addition, when adopting the budget plan for next year and projections for the next 2 years, we will contribute to the budget to deliver the same reports as we have so far. This is just how the Assembly will adopt these documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80757	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80758	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, here's the rest of me to ask you. So 3 billion kuna for the housing of refugee exiles, we have an item in the budget, in 3 years 3 billion kuna. Do I ask you from that 3 billion kuna to answer to the Croatian public to take care of these chakras, which I call what I call the trams of people, or do you take care of the evens of Pupovac Milorad who left 30 years ago who fired at Croatia? Because only 2 million kunas you give for the return of Croats who have left Croatia, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the faith and the nation that you have expelled from your bad policies. For that you give 2 million kuna, and for this in 3 years you give 3 billion kuna. So please answer me who's going to have that money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80759	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80760	Thank you, your well-respected representative, so the subject matter of housing has been regulated by special legal regulations and the same means are also planned in the state budget. You touched the Croats outside of Croatia in your replica, I must say that this year we have actually doubled the budget of the Central State Office outside Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80761	Mr. Dario Hrebac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80762	Dear Secretary of State, one question, so this law is an unquestionable step forward in dealing with public money especially local officials, mayors, mayors and mayors, we have already encouraged and made changes to the Law on Local Self-Government, but there has been no punishment there, which is expected for such a type of law. But here, for the first time in particular, are the penalties mentioned for the first time, so please, who are we going to punish, what will happen to those mayors, mayors and mayors who will disobey the provisions of this law? And once again commending all those in your ministry, all the professional services that have worked on this huge step towards the transparency of spending public money both at national and local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80763	Thank you very much, Your Honor. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80764	I have to give you my word. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80765	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, you're right, we've also prescribed here for the first time misdemeanor provisions for non-compliance with the transparency provisions or the publication of data on the spending of funds. It is predicted that the heads of the body or the authorised responsible person in the bodies will be punished, so if we talk about municipalities it would be the mayor, if we talk about mayoral mayors and mayors' counties, out-of- budget users, these would be the leaders of extra- budget users or budgetary users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80766	Thank you. Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I think we'll all agree that an increased level of transparency is something that we'll all support and warmly welcome. There's one thing that bothers me, and here I hope you'll explain it to me, because in this text that's in front of us, it says that the minister will establish the framework content by way of a guideline. This is such a broad definition, today in the daily press we read that colleagues of Hrebak with their amendment will define something, and I wonder if we will have some kind of guidance that the minister will be doing, whether this amendment will be defined, to what level of transparency will be taken and whether this guidance will then be made in accordance with those time limits prescribed here by law, since many ministries of sublaws do not bring long, long after that time limit has passed which is prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80768	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80769	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. If you are right, we have foreseen that by way of a guide, we would prescribe more detailed data content and the coverage of data on budget spending, but we are open to your constructive proposals in terms of amendments in which we will manifest ourselves when the opportunity comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80770	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's first of all if there's a committee reporter who wants to say something? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first Mr. Dario Hrebak to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80771	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of HS, respected and respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We are today passing the Budget Law because it is one of the conditions for a variety of harmonisations which European practices, which is the NPO of some other things, however, and that is good, it is one good step in terms of everything this law positives, but what we are most interested in in in terms of this law is exactly one huge step towards transparency not only of local self-government units that is at this point in focus but also of general state finances. It's nice and commendable that we with this law, I would say, to maintain the sustainability of our country's public finances, but what's even more important than that is precisely this transparency at local level. This law finally adopts and regulates this transparency of public spending, as I said especially by local officials as mayors, mayors and mayors. At the beginning of the year, we have passed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government which also introduces transparency, but as I have already mentioned there is no penalty because this type of law does not prescribe penalties, they are prescribed by the Law on Budgets which we, I speak on behalf of the Mayor, is direct and direct to us local officials. For the first time, the introduction of the sentence, we heard the secretary of state about all of them, I'd say the naughty ones, I won't use the term local sheriff, and I also think he may be rude, but for those naughty mayors, the mayors and the mayors who, even to this law, were declared without punishment deaf. In fact, the penalties will not be very small, the head of the body who will disobey the provisions of this law if we adopt it, will have to pay 10 to 50,000 kuna fines in person, and I think it is quite a great punishment that will still force them to citizens because citizens are looking for public finances, to transparently display them in machine-readable form on the web pages, but also to finally remove that Stigm from all of us in most of the local officials who do our job with honor and honesty. We're all called local sheriffs now, but after this law, after we're all gonna have to comply with these provisions, it's still going to come off most of us who say honestly and responsibly doing our job. Unfortunately, a lot has been said in the past few years about transparency, a lot of our fellow MPs. Many have sworn, I can see especially this part where the MPs of the Bridge are sitting empty, so the assembly is half empty today, and we are today passing a law that will certainly be revolutionary in terms of the expenditure of public money in the territory of Croatia. HSLS decided to contribute more fully with this law, as Mrs Vucilovic said, some things still need to be done for us, but we are pleased and we thank everyone in the Ministry of Finance who worked on the provisions of this law. We all know how widespread corruption is at the local level, we all swear and worry about this fight against corruption, but every little one of us gets arrested, somebody pays for some lunch that shouldn't be paid. The lunches are the least important throughout the story, although we know that both the media and citizens are always interested in lunches, diaries, wages, etc., much more important contracts, annex contracts, what happens under a small purchase before entering the accounting system, after the implementation of the project through an annex contract, is a very different account. But I don't want to talk too much about the work, I'd like to talk about what we've been looking for as HSLS, and we've contributed to the negotiations on the joint formation of the government, something that was in the coalition agreement together, something that was also in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, and that something is just as part of this budget law. I'm going to talk a little bit now about these concrete amendments, which I'm sure is what the other MPs are interested in. So we will submit 5 amendments which we think will further improve this law, but what is important in the first amendment that we are going to submit, which we have already submitted, to the parliamentary procedure, so the publication of the information referred to in Article 10 of this Law is, therefore, Art. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. Why are we particularly pointing that out? Because then it will be complete total transparency, so what we are personally, what I did as mayor in the city of Bjelovar, this will be another step higher because, as heard by the secretary of state, it is both budgetary and extra-accountary users, so we ourselves in the town of Bjelovar did not go that far and now the law is going to impose that on us in some way. With this I was fully satisfied, transparency and citizens who experienced this message in Bjelovar when we did, they were thrilled with this idea, we sent a strong message that we had nothing to hide, we sent a message that it was necessary for Croatia and unfortunately for the last 3 years, only a few mayors, the mayor went that way, by no one. That's why we obviously needed this law to tell us that we had to do it. I remind everyone, over 500 units of local self-government in Croatia, only 20 of this total transparency has introduced, I hope that this law will allow them to be many, many more. In any case, we are aware that the provisions of this law will not solve the issue of corruption in Croatia, but it will be a great message, it will be a message that we really want to run something and it will be one big, dared to say, huge step towards the transparency of public finances and the finances of local self-government. HSLS will vote in favour of this law, but so if these amendments are adopted, which we have also communicated with your ministry, which will further improve this law and indeed finally after a long, long time, complete transparency of the public, financial system. Thank you once again and here, I hope that we will adopt these amendments on Wednesday and also vote this law that Croatia will certainly be one step better than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80772	Thank you very much. Mr. Damir Bakic will hold a position on this green-left bloc law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80773	... Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. [[Specially enabled.]] We welcome the adoption of this law and, as colleagues of Hrebak said, as said by several colleagues and colleagues in replicas, we especially welcome transparency as a key word that appears here, the direction in which this law is going, we certainly advocate it, and we warmly welcome it. Now, on behalf of our club, a few remarks, first of all, questions. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4. in the definition of budgetary users, no longer explicitly stated by the Council of Minority Self-Government as currently in Article 4. Three valid laws. Why is that now and will there be any practical implications? In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4., also in the definition of extra budget users is now modified and two groups of such users are introduced, there are some ambiguities and we would like to see more precise explanations or clarifications. Which is the first group, which is the second group. Art. The 28th has defined a particular part of the budget, which states that it consists of a plan of expenditure and expenditure of the state budget, i.e. units of local or regional (regional) self-government and their budgetary beneficiaries, presented by organisational classification, sources of funding and economic classification. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 31. the reasoning of the general and specific part of the budget is discussed, and then also in the introductory part of the text and in the explanation it is said that the explanation is no longer the contribution of the budget but is an integral part of it, however, in the article. 31. It doesn't say anything. It would be wise to specify possible in the article. The 28th is more specifically written. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 37th is said that units of local and regional self-government, in the event that the deficit cannot be settled by the end of the financial year, are obliged to draw up a multiannual balance plan for the period for which the budget is to be adopted and additionally. The annual report on this multiannual balancing plan should be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the budget, as well... In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 40th, the current obligation of the Minister or the Managing Authority in charge of finance is abolished to submit the draft budget to the Government or the Mayor or the Mayor by 15 October. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We welcome that. Art. The 41st precises the debate on the budget and is now stated in paragraph 2 that the amendment proposing an increase in expenditure can be submitted provided that, at the same time, it is proposed to reduce some other expenditure in a specific part of the budget in the same amount, and so far it has been, but what is new, it is now explicitly written, it is now explicitly written in relation to Article. 28 of the applicable law that it must be within the same sources of funding. Art. 60 specifies the mechanism for redistributing budget funds, redistributed up to 15% at the level of the group of economic classification, if this ensures an increase in the funds of the participation of the Republic of Croatia or local and regional self-government planned in the budget for the financing of projects co-financed by EU funds. It is important to note that paragraph 9 introduces another novelty, which is that, with the approval of the implementation of the redistribution of funds, the Minister of Finance now approves and subsequently determines the activities and projects and items, because the same applies analoguely to the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government, and I certainly welcome that. Art. 119 discusses the short-term borrowing of units of local and regional self-government, where, as so far, the restriction on the borrowing of units of local and regional self-government is prescribed by the Law on the implementation of the state budget. In this context, it is also important to us. 34 Laws on the implementation of the state budget that we just adopted today. And finally, Art. 120 and 121, Art. 120 determines that units of local and regional self-government can now be in debt in the long term and not only for investments financed from their own budget but also for capital aid to companies and other legal persons in their majority ownership for the realisation of an investment co-financed by EU funds and for investments, i.e. projects whose realisation is determined by special purposes, and this is a valuable novelty. Art. 121 it is prescribed that the total annual commitment of local and regional self-government units cannot amount to more than 20% of the income in the previous year and that is not new. The novelty is compared to the current Law and its Article. 88 C. 2. The fact that loans and loans are now not subject to outstanding commitments from previous years, as has been the case for now and so far, but have been counted, i.e. the relevant outstanding commitments made in the last available financial report. That's what you State Secretarys were talking about. In practice, however, this change could create many problems, many units of local and regional self-government and would therefore be directed to introduce this otherwise positive provision gradually with a certain period of delay, e.g. A year. Exactly such an amendment to this article of the Law will be submitted by the Green-Left Block Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80774	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Vucilovic will represent the views on this Law of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80775	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, dear secretary of state, respected chief treasurer, co-workers and colleagues. What brings us this legal proposal that is before us today? One goal that I think we'll all support, which is to increase the efficiency and transparency of the budget, but there's another goal that maybe we won't all support, and it's about borrowing and debt management. This first part is really something we've all been expecting for a long time, and we'll all agree that the budget of all units of local self-government should be more transparent, there have been a lot of signs in the media, and here, I agree with my colleague Hrebak that we're putting everything in the same basket, and those in that category, as it's usually said, the local sheriffs are spending on what they shouldn't, but also the others who are consciously doing, and there are such ones, right? Therefore, this part of transparency is something that has been waiting for a long time and that is good anyway, but of course, this second part of debt still requires one dose of caution and raises certain questions. I'm not going to be too long on this part about transparency, but my colleague Hrebak has talked a lot about it, and here, we'll see his amendment as well. I have already said in the replica, meaning that the minister will, in a way, establish the framework content, and that is such a little bit of a stretching concept and it can mean a lot, so it is not bad but in the law to determine what level of transparency it is, because it is precisely that everything depends on the direction that the minister will adopt, and perhaps not in some of the deadlines foreseen by law, it is not good because we have a lot of bad experience with these sublaws. I've been here, here, for a year and a half in this House and I've already seen a few ministries that don't bring sublaws according to the prescribed deadlines. The delays are quite large, we had even one bizarre situation recently, when it came to the Register of Enzymes where we were doing changes and additions to the law where the Register of Enzymes was abolished, which was prescribed in the last amendment of the law, and maybe it really shouldn't have, but if it was prescribed, it should have been done. So now we're changing the law because we didn't do something, the ministry didn't do something, established a register that was supposed to be made with the latest amendments and additions to the law. I don't think that's right, so I'm careful here. I don't have any long mandates, but in this year and a half, I've made sure that the rules, sublaws, acts and registers aren't brought in, so here we're going to follow up on whether this trail is going to be made and when and how it's going to be created. So this higher level of transparency, in fact, we can only talk about it when we see the guidance and, of course, when we adopt sanctions here, I think it's a good idea for this to be adopted immediately and sanctioned for all those who won't abide by those rules. Because we have over 500 of these units of local self-government and it's really hard, we can't expect the state's audit to have it combed all over 500 units of local self-government and controlled them so that I hope it means some things to define a little bit better so that we really have transparent budgets. The introduction of a report on the use of EU funds is also something that is positive and should be commended. We know more or less at local level all about what EU funding projects are spent on, but it is not bad to do that and what our people would say black on white especially if they are detailed items in that report. Now, this second part about borrowing and debt management is something where I said I should still show a certain amount of caution because here today is the budget where what draws everyone's attention is this public debt growth, in 5 years from 2019 to 2024. 90 billion kuna, which is about 30% compared to what was, to that nominal amount that was in 2019 when we have to say that the arm on the heart was a stable public debt situation, there was no nominal amount, there was no increase as we are going to record it now. So this bill introduces certain clearer rules for redistribution of budget resources depending on sources of funding and with a emphasis on greater flexibility for the implementation of EU projects. It is then introduced, introduces an additional decentralisation of the debt management of local self-government units, facilitates the possibility of refinancing and reprogramming of existing loans and loans. This means the bill allows the borrowing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, also for capital aid to companies, other legal persons owned or co-owned by units of local and regional self-government for the realisation of an investment co-financed by EU funds or for investments and projects whose realisation is established by specific regulations, which create the obligation of units of local and regional self-government to participate. So we see that, there is also the possibility that debt to finance liabilities on behalf of the return of unacceptable costs that have also been co-financed by EU funds, and when you see all of this, it is very easy to conclude that we are actually going to one variant to ensure this flow and that, in some ways, the funds available to us from both the VFO and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan means that next Generation programme where the deadlines are actually very short. If we don't have this flexibility, we might even be able to pull some funding. In this context, it is good, but I must also point out that European funds are not often meant for what we need. So we have situations on the ground where we have beautiful new cycling trails by the roads that are full of holes, which are driven by tractors in villages and there are many infrastructure projects that may be suitable for rural areas in developed countries of Europe. But they're not exactly the same for us because the EU's priorities and our priorities are not always the same. What we need is a lot of times I've been saying to the ransom stations, the plants for the processing of agricultural cultures, but here's just for example the regional distribution centre in Osijek, we see how slow these projects are going to be when it comes to something that will really bring us some added value for our products that was still in 2017 in the pre-election programme of HDZ, and it's happened again this year and now it's finally started and it should be over. But we can see that this is going terribly slowly, too slowly definitely while some infrastructure projects go much faster, and they short-term workforce, and they leave maintenance costs in the long term. They don't open long-term jobs. So all of this somehow leads us to conclude that it is not bad to increase the absorption of EU funds, but on the other hand, we could be further in charge of projects that will be financed later and will withdraw funds from the EU that are de facto not what we need. And if we look at the fact that the Director of SAFU is in custody, that OLAF combs over 400 projects, then we might be left with loans for projects that we didn't need anyway, but we did them because we could have withdrawn funds from Europe, so we got this one into it. So I'm kind of taking this part on a single dose of caution, although I say the very short deadlines for withdrawing funds for projects from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan are, and this budget is, this law is on track. It means that it's all coming together and it's pulling back and it's realising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80776	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr. Daniel Spajic to present his views on this law, the attitudes of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80777	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Last week's speech began with two laudable commendations on the government's account, commending them for finally investing in the return of over 10% of Croats who were expelled from the country and for raising the budget for implementing the Anti-Corruption Strategy by as much as 18%. From 14,000 kuna to an incredible 16500 kuna. Congratulations. However, the more in the materials related to the budget, the less we feel about the joke. However, we are very concerned about a number of budget items, and we cannot possibly support this way of spending money. I will look back at a few points and these are pensioners, public debt, economic growth, unreasonable investment in IT, state property management, EU funds addiction and our black hole called health care and my friend Beroš. As for the pensioners in the following year, the government planned an increase in pension expenditures of over 900 million kuna, approximately as much as it will give on average over the next 3 years for the housing of some refugees, we still don't know which. The ratio to the total amount of pensions, which is barely 2%, means insufficient nor enough to cover inflation, a constant decline in the ratio of the average pension and the average salary that is among the worst in the EU anyway. The pension cover gap is 17,5 billion kuna and will have to be compensated from other budget revenues. And so we're spinning in a vicious circle that we can only come out of by significantly increasing the total number of jobs and the average salary and there's no such thing without reforms for which this government does not, either will or competence. As for the public debt, from the material the government has provided us, it is clear that Plenkovic's Government will charge us with an additional 100 billion kuna from 2016 to the end of this term. 100 billion kuna. So where's your money invested? Debt wouldn't be a problem if it were invested wisely, in something that brings long-term benefits but obviously these money wasn't so invested. Of course, the government will rub our eyes that we are less relatively in charge of GDP compared to other EU members, but these are only flossules and 7.3 billion kunas that we are going to give for interest this year, they are not flossules, but concrete money from which we could give each underage child in the Republic of Croatia a monthly child allowance of 850 kuna. For every underage child in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to economic growth, the government wanted to boast that the funding from the National Recovery Plan will raise economic growth in the next 2.3 years, but this report also reveals that these funds will only pass through our economy as a stream water heater. The growth rates then fall again to 2.5%, which guarantee us only further extinction. Various circular flows, agglomerations and footsteps are excellent for calming party machinery but not for changing the structure of the economy and raising the growth rate to a sustainable level. When unreasonable investment in IT, what Sanader and the rest of the budget cabadias were marketing, it is now according to the new Plenkovic and HDZ, IT. ideal area for corruption activities and the extraction of party money. Few people understand that, and the DORH team and USKOK are obviously not very financially written, so we have to be exposed from abroad to affairs in the area of IT. You can find dozens of items related to IT in this budget even though we do not have a clear digitalisation strategy. For example, the Digitalization Office gets about 750 million kunas. The enlargement of the state form will be spent in the coming years of around 150 million kuna, although the initial consumption of around 350 million kunas without clear users, some kind of upgrade... It's going to cost us an extra 102 million kuna while health care cramps in debt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can count it like this for an hour. Beroche's actions are known to everyone in the Republic of Croatia, so the people need to be familiar with these new ones that are happening. As regards state property management, state property management is probably the most embarrassing part of the budget, part of the budget which clearly shows how much corruption and negative selection the Government manages the state property it is entrusted with. By managing very valuable state-owned assets, the government will also receive only 2.4 billion kuna through profits from companies, rents, concessions and other revenues. Our government property is worth tens of billions. Tens of billions, smart enough. Dependence on EU funds. Even 20% of the inflatable budget revenues come as assistance from EU funds. We became addicted to EU funds and they do not invest in production capacity to secure budget revenues when the aid stops. But some obviously don't care because when it stops, they'll be far away in other places in Brussels or some kind of embassy, etc. A black hole called health care. Although we have brilliant and sacrificed experts and health professionals, our health care is the most ill part of our society because of the way the ministry manages them. Costs rise uncontrollably and the holes are rags from the budget. Minister Maric is already sick of all this, but he transfers regular funds because he has to, because the boss is asking for it. If it wasn't for a health hole to be patched up, the pension increase budget could be nearly 10 times bigger, but it would be necessary to feed the octopus that squeezed around our health care and pay the price of incompetence responsible for implementing the reforms. Such a budget is not only a step away from getting the Republic of Croatia out of the way for a long time, but it is a big step towards further extending all the key problems we are facing. It should only be noted that from 2008 to today GDP has fallen by 20% while at the same time we have, while our budget is growing by around 45%. This will all be paid by the Croatian poor, and I will now order from this place all to one state attorney who I know has his fingers in a jam, so I will personally report them to OLAF, me by my name and last name, and you will see what you will do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80778	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Grozdana Peric will present the HDZ's opinion on this law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80779	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear secretary of state, state treasurer, colleague and colleague. I think the Budget Law should be much more commented in terms of legislative provisions, and all what some colleagues are saying through the budget itself should be commented on through the adoption of the budget itself for the current year and the future two. The Budget Act was adopted in 2008 first and was amended in 2012 and 2015, which regulates the area of public finances and lays down the basic preconditions necessary to ensure fiscal discipline and quality management of public funds resulting from strategic planning and macroeconomic stability. Since new circumstances have arisen and new circumstances arise where we are a country that will join the euro area, then this new Budget Law must also be seen in this regard. Therefore, it is also a reform measure within the NPOO from 2021 to 2026. As the Secretary of State has said, final compliance with the Council of Europe Directive has been carried out since 2011. 85th, and this actually results in an increase in the efficiency and transparency of the budget. We in one way want to be as a nation to see everything, but then when it's set as a request then at some point it's said to be seen, but no, not in my house. However, it is really necessary for the Budget Law to better define all relations, thus defining this new and budgetary and extra-financial users, and introducing both the commitments of the adoption and the financial plans that are in the programme, in fact starting with the convergence programme produced by the government or better said, it is a stability programme. We need to know that the government is delivering this to the European Commission by the end of April of the current year and it is giving this macroeconomic fiscal framework to the Republic of Croatia and to the next, in the current and next 3rd g. So it is very important to show that we have data and measurable data that we will really be able to control and see the framework and objectives of economic policy, as well as the representation of macroeconomic movements. As is the case now, projections of the general government budget and public debt, fiscal risks and also an analysis of the sensitivity of the movement are to be included, i.e. the surplus budget of the general government and public debt. All of this is actually very important to make sure that the environment we are in, and also within the family we are in, is that we can track our progress or possibly something that we haven't had a good time with. It is also necessary, also under this Budget Law, to make it much clearer and to define the implementation of EU projects, given that the resources we expect and which we need to use are very generous. Therefore, it is very important that these funds can be monitored in a quality way and what this law adopts, which is that 15% of the funds used at the group level are actually used for EU funds so that these sources of general income and income can be redistributed. What has so far been in terms of budget reasoning has been some JLS and have so far been using and doing budget explanations as foreseen by this law, but now it becomes an integral part of the budget and now it will be much clearer and precisely defined in which way the reasoning must be presented. There each unit will have to show really the results that it achieves just by implementing individual programs and activities and projects and by becoming an integral part of it then it is certainly and measurable much higher. As far as transparency is concerned, we can agree that this should be far greater than it has ever been. In this way, units of local self-government, regional and budgetary and extra-financial users will have to publish information on the spending of funds and on the websites on which they will be available and searched. However, we must also make sure that it is for all other budget users or all other participants where this is a much better control, and certainly in this way statistics themselves and the CNB itself will have much more quality data than those they have so far. The report itself on the implementation of the budget is a detailed way of process and a key document in the design and execution and it is very important that the report itself is done in a very high quality way and that it will be very important for the application of the ESA methodology to show both local and regional units and the state budget. Also so far, there has been a one-way balance between all the deficits that occurred in the budget, but not so detailed as this will be prescribed by this new law, where the document itself will then have to be fully clear and the regulation will define the plan itself of a multi-annual balance. What is good is also a fiscal assessment of the consequences of laws and other regulations where there will be much more quality here, or any impact and assessment for the introduction of a law and for the next two years, respectively. What it gives to units in another way, and I will talk about it in an individual debate, in fact, the long-term borrowing of units of local and regional self-government is very important precisely that flexibility so that units can borrow or refinance their obligations. Since it was not possible in the current regulation and the law for those who were out of reach, so if, and we see that we are in an environment where interest rates fell then the units of local self-government open up the possibility of reducing their liabilities in a way that they have less interest payments on loans or other ways of borrowing. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80780	Thank you. Mr. Boris Lalovac will present the opinion of the SDP Representatives' Club on this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Here today is here before us so I would call it the law of all laws, this is the law of all laws because it makes a budget based on it, and actually the budget is the most important document that defines whether one government survives, does not survive, does it work, so the basic document is actually the budget. And the way in which this main document is produced is a budget that is confirmed by the government means work and determines policy guidelines is actually this document, which is the Budget Law. That's why I would call it the law of all laws. And we bring it here for a few reasons, only one of the reasons is this part of what's being said, which is why he's listed as P.Z.E. that it is in line with Council Directive 2011/85 of 8 November 2011. on the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States, which means including standardisation of terminology and predicting improvement in the planning of implementation, reporting and accounting, means that this is only one of the reasons. The second reason is more amazing is because we're in 2023. We will accept the euro and this is probably and the European Commission has asked the Government to bring a document of all documents before the introduction of the euro, that spending not only on the funds spent by taxpayers, but on citizens who define from the collected taxes, but Europe is probably asking how we will spend European funds. And that's why through this budget very clearly in the Budget Law are defined exact sources, it's some part that's some kind of upgrade to the previous ones and we see that changing the structure of all the budgets and the structure of the state budget has changed in the last five, six years significant where the share is now... eu funds is much larger and what is the fact that this part should be a much larger part of the source of funding and local budgets. And that's why we're talking here today about all of these changes because, through just an explanation, as you can see, the government has stated that this law is changing even in 22 areas, which means it's a very wide range of changes. So, we've caught up here with one piece of transparency, but this, in my view, means a much deeper change in the budget for 2023 and through the adoption of these local budgets and definitions themselves, because here it's also been said to change and define who is the budgetary and extra-accountary user. So by entering a much wider, deeper,... The use of these European funds now also defines and defines who is all the budgetary and extra-financial user and who will have to bring the documents themselves and not just in this budget implementation to define some ESA methodology, is it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it seems to me that it will change here, or it is fully consistent with the statistical methodology of the EU, is often mentioned as the ESA 2010 which is prescribed by Regulation 549/2013 year, and then defines to me that, as far as we're going to get new ones here, not to say budget and non-profit users, whether you're doing some kind of assessment, so now they're involved, we've seen in this very supplement, are included, I don't know, Croatian roads, he's before I know, HZ infrastructure, HRT etc., so HBOR, so he's been expanding in the last few years, and here the question is whether this will apply, for example, through all these and the tourist communities. So they will also be used and then this part of what is actually being said today about this amendment, then actually the tourist communities will have to publish accounts when they will work, I don't know the celebration, the organization of certain I don't know tourist parties during the summer, then they'll just have to adopt this law and that's what we're looking for, e super, the tourist community will spend a million kunas but then very clearly, we spent it or we paid Peri d.o.o. So much money, for that purpose, that's what we got, etc., right. So, this goes much deeper into that certain level and that's why we're here the SDP club is actually when we're all talking about transparency, that it doesn't just stay on the minister's direction, is it just the minister's direction here, so what she said and colleague Vesna, she wants to bring it, when he's going to bring it in, where the deadlines are going to bring it in, is, the SDP club is proposing a certain amendment regarding the content and publication of that data because today we're talking about where each individual payment should be defined, because that's what we're all saying here today, and now we're going to go to this particular transparency, each individual payment that paid the money, which is the kind of cost, which is worth it, means that supplier and what's most important, when it's paid and purpose. It's actually the real essence of using budget money. It's not a problem when it comes, I don't know President Macron and when it's a diplomatic relationship and when it's state relations and when the purpose is known, right, but the problem is to determine the purpose at the lower levels and at the levels of ministers when they go to honor someone, when they go not only to the costs of certain, we all take out some food, etc., I don't know, very serious and intellectual services, is it, the cost of lawyers, is it, when a ministry orders whether they use their own funds or I don't know, they order through those bagatal purchases and orders I don't know, some variety of types of intellectual services that they know very well the purpose of using these funds. If that's the intention, that means what we actually asked the question, is, it's actually a SDP club through its amendment and suggested, that we see the purpose of the actual cost, of spending, of apologizing and of defining the deadline of publication, is it, because we don't have any deadline here at all, is it going to be in a year, two etc., we've made it very clear that it's quarterly, no, that they're being published quarterlyly, while these certain accounts are being collected, technically, in fact, I think that the days at this time of digitisation, I think, without any higher costs can be carried out, so that someone said here we can't do it because we have problems of information, etc., I think that it might be within some time and that it's actually defined by law, that it's written in law, and then we know more clearly whether it's going in this direction of transparency or that this transparency is left... or to any other person, it is not good to leave on one person a definition of the level of transparency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we want transparency, there are 150 of us here, we choose a minister, we raise our hand for the law, we support etc., I see no reason for greater transparency than the Parliament. The council is the main body. The Parliament defines transparency, right? Let's not let individuals define transparency. Then as soon as an individual defines transparency, it's not good, right? It used to be in monarchy, when an individual defined the end, when he defined and what he thought was transparency, right, he always thought it was transparent, let's define in the Assembly with the main representative body that would define that transparency, right, and then it's real openness and then you'll get the support of all 150 MPs, 151 MPs, you'll all get transparency for that transparency, right. Don't leave it on individuals, right, then it always opens up some doubts, it will be. I don't know, 2030, etc., etc., etc. Also, there were actually speeches here to define changes in local budgets or budgets of local self-government units. When you read the State Audit Office's reports, which is very important, this is a fundamental law, local unit reports are catastrophic. Catastrophics. They have, most of them have conditional opinions. Even as many ministries, states, etc., and there are unconditional opinions, it is done, it is improved in part, but when you look at the reports of the State Audit Office, in fact the biggest objections are actually on the local budget, and therefore the largest part of the amendments to this law and refers to local units through the explanations of the amendments, okay, in this part we certainly commend a certain part of the possibility of reprogramme, but this should ultimately result in better reports of local administration units or reduce their irregularities when the DUR comes to them again, yes, then this is the real law. If we reduce that irregularity and if they expand them, then we haven't actually guessed the purpose of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80782	Ms. Marijana Puljak will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80783	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, so here we are today in light of the International Anti-Corruption Day, which is tomorrow December 9th, today we are talking here and discussing the Budget Law. A colleague of Lalovac said well, the law of all laws is whether because it actually determines the way in which not only the state budgets and the budgets of the units of local self-government are formed, and on this, only the budget depends on it, and confirms whether the government is the mayor, mayor and city councils. The adoption of this Budget Act is also a reform measure as we have seen it is within the framework of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and it introduces the obligation of transparency of all budgets of local self-government units, budgetary.../incomprehensible/... budgetary entities and penalties are imposed for those who do not respect, do not respect these requirements. As my colleague Lalovac said the law goes much deeper, much bigger changes than transparency itself but here is transparency perhaps the most popular and simplest to explain to the citizens whether someone mentioned it here a little earlier, always looking for someone whom I don't know the mayor paid for lunch or who paid for the mayor's lunch, it's fun whether it's in a large number of local self-government units they couldn't find, and then they talked about whether the money was hiding. The increased efficiency and transparency of the budget is also introduced in line with EU guidelines and Council Directives, including here, as we have said, standardisation of terminology, predicting improvements in planning, enforcement, reporting and accounting. The transparency mentioned here is one of the preconditions or tools in the fight against corruption, so here we welcome the introduction of these obligations at all levels. But the question is often whatever transparency is even many units of local self-government have been rewarded so far for their level of transparency although if you look at here by the criteria I can come from the IT sector, according to IT criteria today in the 21st century they were not even close to the level, the required level of transparency or the expected level to say so in the openness of data. For example, you had research by the Institute of Finance and here is the latest survey for the period November – December 20, February - April '21. covering all local units means 576 counties, cities and municipalities, the average budgetary transparency measured by the number of budget documents published on the local unit's website was 4.5 out of 5. At one conference, I asked representatives and the Economic Institute and the Institute of Finance, so here it was only important to publish the budget, publish it in PDF as one actually unreadable, unsearchable document, but as a clutch it was posted in PDF and then GRAWE got a clutch of transparency. However, here I would say that one step ahead of what is even proposed by this law, so the law says that these should be machine-readable data, a step forward would be so as to allow the data to be fully open, that the data can and as it says download or drop into applications, and then the IT companies can actually do some of these applications with that data and then simply allow the juzer-friendly to allow the citizens of those interested to easily search that data. So that would be full transparency. What we saw as a problem here is already mentioned here, here are two problems, already shown here. So, the problem that Mr. Lalovac also mentioned, therefore, is that the finance minister, by way of way, determines the content and minimum data set and how information is published on the web pages. So, here's when it says that here's a good word on the individual and depends on the individual who issues some of his instructions then it's not good, so it would be good to define within this law what is actually being done, which is exactly what is required to be published so that at the end of the day these penalties can be introduced so that there are no various interpretations, which is transparent and which is not, which has not been published. In addition, the second problem is this, this part of the budget, the Croatian Parliament therefore brings a budget for the financial year and projections for the next two financial years at the level of the group of economic classifications. It is mentioned whether flexibility in the implementation of the budget is more efficient management. However, here it is said, it is therefore important to point out that data will be entered into the State Treasury system at section level and all reports related to the implementation of the budget will be adopted at section level. The same level of transparency is said but the efficiency of management is increased. But here, it's something that somehow seems to remain academic, it's not, it's not really a commitment as if we're going one, one step back at that level of showing all the information in the budget. In addition to this commitment to transparency, another step in the fight against corruption, this is what counterpart Oreshkovic said at a press conference, several public registers should be established. One of these registers, therefore, is full of fiscal transparency, openness of all budgets at all levels both national and local, but it should also be possible to establish a register of all business relations with public authorities, so as to know who the bodies and public authorities are actually working with. In addition, as I said, we welcome the introduction of transparency, we hope that here in the 21st century there are no technical obstacles to realising really full transparency, that each of the citizens when they want it to come to the web pages here I can say it on the technical side to say it is possible to do it, that on the websites of every city, every one of them has a budgetary, extra-accountary user has one search engine in which, therefore, you have now some cities that are praised by transparency just because they put a search engine on their websites, but the one that is looking for has to know what it is looking for, and then it's automatically not really good. The search engines need to be this kind of guy so that a guy gets some menus, categories, criteria that he can then, he can fill in and search himself, not that he needs to know in advance if he's exactly what he's looking for. So it's, it's today that as far as techniques are concerned, it's very possible. And I say one day I hope that we will reach such a level of information at all levels that at the end and from our citizens we will not ask for the information that the state already has. So, often happens you know when you go from room to room you're looking for the data that the state already has on you based on your own, your OIB. Here, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80784	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative Erik Fabianic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80785	Dear Vice President, representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues, this Budget Act that we are considering today is essentially a sterile law. Sterile for two reasons. Sterile because he talks about purity or why we'd like to tell me about the transparency of public finances, but he's also sterile because he's tied to everything. So, it's not just about the budget of the Republic of Croatia that we're discussing, but it's about cities, municipalities where we have species that were in power in representative bodies, either in executive bodies, so it's about everything, and I think it'd be good for me to achieve as much consensus as possible that's kind of being denied just because we're denied the right to two, two readings. And I don't see any reason why we have to go to the first, second reading and the ER, and the emergency procedure. In my debate, I will first of all touch what is the amendment of the Social Democrats Club and namely, Article 53 of the second paragraph states that if the revenue and receipts are paid in a lower amount than planned, they can assume and pay obligations but to the level of the funds paid or transferred. We propose one improvement, or one specific exception, which is that, exceptionally referred to in paragraph 2. So I have read that, in essence, obligations based on dedicated revenues can be assumed up to the level of the plan, not just to the amount of the funds paid. The reason for this is very, very simple because the method of using dedicated, dedicated incomes is most often arranged by decision, contract with the supplier or some other act, and it is precisely a prerequisite to make it happen. For example, the method of cost compensation for EU projects is such that eligible costs are refunded after being paid by the holder or partner to the service provider or employees. In that case, it is necessary to enable the commitment to the level of the plan to be taken before the revenue is paid and on the basis of the co-financing agreement or co-financing agreement or the grant decision. Therefore, for that reason, it is proposed to introduce a new item that would allow the commitment to be made even before the payment of the dedicated revenue is fixed, only in certain cases, but to the planned, planned, up to the planned, planned values. The basic reason for this amendment stems from practices that are familiar with all the behaviours, which are the conduct of the executive power whether it is the counties, cities and municipalities because we have countless examples in which the projects are co-financed by the state, for which contracts must be concluded in advance and to assume obligations were based on the supplier's invoice or before the funds from the state budget are obtained. The same applies to capital expenditure on decentralised functions financed from the aid of balancing, which must be provided before the payment of the support funds to the competent ministry on the basis of the obligations created. I stress that because it is not just EU projects. Well then, based on the text, then by the basis of these created obligations, the state provides funds that are then passed on to the supplier. Therefore, all municipalities, cities and counties which have concluded a co-financing agreement with the State or which have received balance-sheet rights for centralised functions by virtue of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which, on the basis of that contract or decision, have concluded contracts on the basis of which the account was supplied to them, and that the State has not paid them in advance, which is generally not the case but is subsequently refunded from the State on the basis of the obligations created, do not comply with the applicable law and neither will it under the new Budget Act. So, this is how we have derogations in practice so far, and according to this law and in the future if our amendment is not accepted, but it is not a problem, it is no problem, because the proposer himself is therefore not aware of this, however, that he did not violate those provisions, he did not prescribe the infringement provisions. Therefore, there are no violations for the derogation from this law, but in practice it is happening, and this regulation will continue to take place. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80786	Thank you very much. We are going to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80787	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. On page 37 of the Croatian Government Programme adopted in the 7th month 2020, it reads, "The Government will commit all local and regional units to the public and internet publication of spent public money by amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government." In the amended Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, there is no talk of transparency except that it is mentioned five times just to be mentioned. Art. 68.a., it is prescribed that the municipality, the city and the county are required to make publicly available information on the spending of budgets on their websites in such a way that this information is easily available and searched, and that publication is made in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the planning, production, adoption and implementation of the budget, instructions and other acts of the Ministry of Finance. So, contrary to what counterpart Hrebak said to no one at all, you made a commitment, but you said you would do it by amending the Budget Law. And then, in this draft Budget Law, you said that the minister would make it clear what this transparency would look like. And what did the law itself do about the government's obligation to introduce transparent spending of public funds? Nothing, because let's not have a shower, so to speak, we know what we promised in the pre-election campaign in 2020. And you and your coalition partner Dario Hrebac. You promised full transparency in spending public funds on Bjelovar and so to say Omisalj and that total transparency of the state budget. And with the state budget to go ahead, you've taken a step backwards already in its planning by giving the leader or the prime minister and ministers a greater space of unintended spending of funds, and you called it flexibility to increase the efficiency of the budget. Translated, since you're not planning the costs realistically now you're going to have more room to justify it, so you're going to, for example, without the bill of Parliament and the public decide how much you will spend on intellectual services to various consultants, and how much on expenditures for material and energy or, for example, we will know as I told the Secretary of State how much it is planned for recreation, culture and religion because that group is, but we will not know how much the share of the funds is planned for culture, and how much for religion we will see it when it is carried out, so when it is done, we will not know how much of the share of the funds is planned for culture, and how much for religion we will see it when it is carried out, so when it is done, we will eat the donkey wolf as it is said. So let's go back to the full transparency of the local budget that you started promoting as compensation because you realized that it was better to sell it as your great transparency, and at the same time you don't have to endanger the biggest fish. And the biggest fish are the same as the Golem, so the minister. For example, drummer Baricevic, Puljasic and that team are small babies. The sting is fish and such fish should be protected. What you have done in this law is this, you have increased the number of occurrences of words transparency in all slopes and shapes to eight times, so far it has been five times. You've given time for the minister to draw up a guideline on the content of the publication of public money spending in municipalities and cities that will depend on the pressure of local leaders to hide what they're spending public money on. And there's this amendment to Dario Hrebaca that doesn't talk about full transparency and he's given space to the minister to decide what it is to be transparent. SDP's local leaders don't need that law, so you shouldn't have any political will either. They don't need a minister's guidance, they don't need a threat to punishment because they don't have anything to hide, everyone will show all the bills that pay money from citizens' pockets. From 1.1.2022.g. Some already have, but with 1.1 past this law, without this law, citizens of Omis, Zlatar, Trogir, Cres, Rivers, Pregrads, Konjščina, Vrbovac, Varazdin, Vele Luka, Lokava, Maruševac, Korucula, Kastava, Babina Grede, Milne, Tinjana, Vizinada, Čavli, Brdovac, Jaska, Klanjca will know where every kuna of their money is going and those are just some because SDP will not be prescribed to introduce into all units of local self-government where SDP is in power. We have no problem with this, and neither do I nor I need the law even to publish this data for a municipal enterprise owned by my unit of local self-government and TZ Omisalj Municipality, which is already fully transparent today and has a TZ of 1.1.2022, and a municipal enterprise as such in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80788	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80789	Thank you very much. I will give you in my replica the opportunity to answer to the end where you left off. So, the word transparency is one convenient word, such as the reform was a handsome word, so then we called reform everything and everything, but no reform is essential even a small one that reform did not happen, as well as transparency. A decade ago, when we all started to use the concept of a smart city or a smart city and then it got a little deeper into it all together, then, among other things, it was seen, which means transparency in the budgets, i.e. the smart city means that the city manages everyone wisely, that it is transparent, open and public in spending public money and that one of the first things should be to publish the budget on pages, not only that citizens can read it, but that they can see for themselves what the budget means. If you increase one item, you can reduce something else and the rest, and that's the tools we know, so, Now you can. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80790	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80791	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, first of all, I have also criticised here the alleged transparency in planning the state budget because it is simply not transparent and cannot be justified by flexibility. It is terrible that we go one step backwards even when we plan how we will spend, or when we plan costs in the state budget. That's terrible. I don't know what led you to that. You can't do that. On the other hand, what citizens are more interested in, spending public funds. Well, if the full transparency of the state budget had been introduced, when it was supposed to be, Gabrieli Zalac would not have thought of resupplying his friend's software for 10 million kuna because she knew that at the same time every citizen of the Republic of Croatia would know. Let's not talk about the Jump and the DORH. Now, that is total transparency, not what is proposed today despite the amendment of the Dari Hrebac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80792	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. You were talking about the transparency of your budget, here, so I'm wondering, to what level do you publish it? When, we're here, we said you should, I don't know, publish it once a quarter, how often do you publish it? What level of cost, is that 50 kuna, 100 kuna, to which, is there any limit to which it is defined at all, means some kind of announcement of any account and what accounts are you publishing? Here, let's just see today what are examples of some local leaders, and what that would mean at the state level. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80794	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80795	Thank you very much. So the Municipality of Omisalj publishes absolutely all data within all amounts. There is neither a minimum nor a maximum that defines that amount. So every bill, every payment is announced and in one month, so a month apart, every month. It's a little longer in Bjelovar, so three months. What's the difference between this transparency and Hrebac's transparency here in this law is the fact that it's run according to the principle of the Treasury. In the treasury, for example, it says that the supplier of E-aqua d.o.o. has received a certain amount for other services. Well, well, well. And what other favors? No one knows, and what's even more devastating, these data only exist for 2020. Today, a citizen will not know what public money is spent on neither local self-government nor in the state according to this Law or the amendment of Dari Hrebak. Let's not deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80796	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80797	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Ahmetovic. Here, your exposure shows very clearly that no one has prevented local leaders from introducing transparency until now. Again, it's not good when something rests on an individual and its affinities on, because we all know what our people say, is whether, the opportunity makes a thief, and corruption has no ideological and world-wide omens and me in principle more interests something else and here, I would ask you as the head of a unit of local self-government, and it refers to this second section of borrowing that I was talking about, to finance these EU projects, here, which means specifically to you in the Omistry and whether it will make it easier for you, to make it more difficult, whether it will be the same, so here's just your thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80798	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80799	Thank you very much. Fortunately for all citizens of Omisalj municipality, Omisalj municipality has no problem at all in this matter. So we don't have any need to borrow or do it with our budget. All the projects we intend to implement, we can, because we are indeed such fiscal capacity, we can carry out our budget very realistically and responsibly, we do not realise budget deficits, we are not in debt, so we absolutely have no problem with that. They have problems with other local self-government units that are not as fortunate as the Omisalj municipality, and there is certainly a legislator should have found a way to make it easier for such units of local self-government. What I think is another criticism, that it is so rigidly accessible to local self-government units on this issue, and on the other hand, for example, the state can borrow as much as it wants and no one asks it anything. In 2 years, 50 billion public debt to the state. No one's asking that country how you can, and now the leaders will. Local Self-Government Units [[Intruder: Thank you.]] who don't have any money [[Thank you very much.]] And I'm going to ask... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80800	The next one will be a respected representative of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80801	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, what my colleague says before me, the state was in debt as long as it wanted, and her government was in charge of over 70 billion kuna. So if we're going to talk about it, then we can talk about it in the previous government. What should be noted about borrowing is very important that in the previous law borrowing was in chapter 7 for both state and local self-government and for budget users and all others, however, this Law separates it, so that it specifically treats or defines borrowing and guarantees to units of local and regional (regional) self-government in relation to the state budget. What should be commended is that local self-government units can now be in debt in the long term for an investment financed from its budget, but also for capital aid to companies and other legal entities owned by it to realise exactly the investments co-financed by EU funds. It can also be charged with financing commitments on behalf of the reimbursement of unacceptable costs financed by EU funds. This is Article 120. The more clearly defined in Article 121, that is that now the local self-government unit will, therefore, when the debt form is fulfilled, then it was covered by the total debt that it was after the previous year, and now it will be the obligations that have been made according to the last report, so according to the last available financial report. This means that it is limited in one way, and this debt control is much higher since units of local self-government are entering a general state in which, even now, according to estimates, they are also included in the general state. Furthermore, Article 124 clearly defines exactly the refinancing, reprogramming and changes of the borrowing agreement which is good so far, since the units could not, in the event that there is a smaller obligation on the market to have a lower credit, so now they can refinance and their obligations, provided that this annual annuity is not greater and does not increase compared to the previous period, and this is now obtained with the agreement of the Minister of Finance, and not as it used to be at government level. So there is this one way of speeding up and the possibility that units can also finance and co-finance European projects as well because we know that just finding these 15% of the funds was once very, very difficult to secure, and in this way this flexibility will just be much higher because in this way we allow certain projects to be applied, and also the certainty that the certainty that this consent will be obtained from the finance minister if, of course, all the previous conditions as defined by the law are met, and will be certainly defined by the regulation that will be subsequently adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80802	We have a few replicas. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80803	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Peric, we heard from a colleague in the SDP that once the state was in charge, only that this government was in charge. However, I remember one minister, a colleague of Lalovec's who inherited him from us here who told us that every interest is good and that the state will pay every interest at that time is only from 2011 to 2005 if someone will give us. That's when the credit rating was in the trash. And we celebrated it as one great success and it was all good. We were happy to pay even wages and pensions because it was such a big crisis that we just got out of it for five years. Now another thing, I'm also interested in whether the mayors are equally suitable for both incomes and expenditures. Since we already have transparency on expenditures and everyone's talking about it, let's go to income transparency, so that we know how much Marko Maric in Omislje has paid communal fees, taxes and everything else. If you have it at all, you don't have it, it's the same thing, I don't know. So let's all go, so everyone knows how much he's invested in that community and what he can ask of it, because this way when we're on our way I don't know who's gonna want to be chief anymore and I have a will for all of this... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80804	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80805	Thank you very much. A fellow that, indeed, should show everything then to see exactly how much and who paid the income, and let's see from what sources the income comes from. And we also have to say that this public debt that's now come into existence, it's because it's actually caused by external influence, and it's a pandemic, and it's also earthquakes. Therefore, what has now happened cannot really be said to be irresponsible because in this way the entire system has been preserved, so if we want to say, preserved and jobs, as well as entrepreneurs who have not gone into bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80806	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to comment on my colleague, Boric, because at least in my discussions, I'm trying to be considerate of both of us on one side and on the other, not favoring either side, so it might be good if he listens well and quotes some things without cheering. So I'm interested in this particular proposal when this law is adopted that we see a change in duty, a formula of duty with local units, especially as regards these due debts previously controlled from previous years, and now they enter into these current ones, which for those local units that are going to be in trouble, probably the City of Zagreb or we don't know any other local units when this is applied and they are immediately due to these current commitments are automatically above 20%, do we have a mechanism for them. Here, this is our particular question that perhaps counterpart Boric learns something when today we speak very specifically of this part, what is then in these, in particular, of these local communities probably also the HDZ that some are. So I don't share HDZs and SDPs... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80808	Yes, thank you very much. That's the problem, we all know that there was a problem especially with units that had pulsating growth especially when it came to major projects. Whether in this way, although I would say there would be a prior obligation to enter and manage this public debt programme, or obligations that were previously created so that it could actually happen that some units in this case could not be additionally indemnified, but for this again there is a mechanism that the government has, which is these unambiguous loans, which are then approved under the general mass under the Law on the implementation of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80809	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80810	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I am not the head of local self-government, but here I am actively following what is happening. One thing that changes this law, and I think it's good. We have been going through one of these difficult processes in the past year, and it was an earthquake in Zagreb, it was also an earthquake in Banovina which, at that point, was supposed to be quickly intervened, but the Law on Budget Implementation was still saying something else. This time, the provision changes where the leaders of the units of local and regional self-government, and of course the governments in the event of a disaster of power are completely different from the individual items of the budget, or it will look quite different than it has been so far, which I think is a good provision and will help them with these very things regardless of what the accident was.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80811	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80812	Yeah, that's right. This is now a special article where these and such unforeseen situations can be intervened much faster. We know that until now only liquid reserves have been used for this purpose, and now they will be able to access it much more flexiblely, and that is not what God wants us to do, but in that sense, in this law, it is what we are supposed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80813	The next one will be spoken by respected representative Marin Mandaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80814	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Chief Treasuryman, the Honorable colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Long-awaited and announced Budget Act, in particular when I was 2017. He had the opportunity to assume the office of mayor of Djakov, of course, in close cooperation with his head of finance whenever we worked on the budget of the rebalancing, we thought about what could be better, more concrete, clearer and more transparent, and here the Budget Law is changing, and now that the Budget Law is changing, we are going to do it all right now and finally here is thank God here is the new Budget Law. Maybe you're a little sorry that it goes in one reading all together, so that we can't deepen that debate here at the plenary session, but somehow I'm impressed to thank God that the new Budget Law has come. I'm going to speak a little bit more of course by JLS which is very much about this law because it defines both our budgets and our implementation and our management of finance. It brings a lot of good, makes it clearer to do things than plan, adopt, adopt, implement, implement budgets. What I somehow managed most through contacts and communication with another, with other stakeholders in local self-government looking forward to the fact that in future budgets as well as state power plan at the level of groups that we like to say on the other where... The implementation itself is given much, much more possibilities in the execution, in the implementation of these budgets. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just not sure now whether this law and regulations it, okay if we're going to bring a budget at group level whether we're obliged to present in the draft budget itself, as it says here that at the level of the section, I'm going to need to present the budget, but in the units of local and regional self-government, whether they're going to be in more detail on the budget itself, at the very proposal of the budget, or if the power of a head is set up like that, and here's the hard word we showed it at the level, at the level of the group. The plan, development and the programme no longer need to bring thanks to God, and I have often wondered why we bring such a thing, and we know that the new Law on Strategic Management of another has imposed some other obligations on us, some other obligations. Explanation of the budget of both the general and the specific part becomes an integral part of the budget, a mandatory part of the budget. I had this opportunity to look at the adoption of the state budget, the rebalance at JLS level, of course it would raise some clarity and transparency of the budget. Of course, we'll get more work, more back work, but I believe it'll somehow all go to the benefit of those who actually care about the budget or who do, the ones who use it. I would also like to say a few words about the changed provisions concerning the borrowing of both JLS and our budget users, outside the users and companies owned by JLS. The process of borrowing later refinancing of the loan reprogramming in JLS has been liberalised. We welcome that. We also met here with the problems of spending in practice, here in particular and in Djakov in our municipal society we had the need to do so to propose existing, existing debts. The company didn't have a problem with profitability, but it simply had a problem with uncomplicated inflows and outflows and everything okay we agreed, of course whenever it was a matter of some kind of credit, then it was a small and political issue, so we agreed on it at an appropriate level. But then there's the devil's Budget Law that didn't allow such an option. This new proposed Budget Law allows God and such options will go hand in hand not only to JLS but also to extra-account users. The only thing that seems to me is that there may have been a small, small questionnaire above the process of refinanceing the existing commitments of budgetary users and institutions owned by JLS and regional self-government, so if I get there, I will be free to propose an amendment in that section that is clearly and unequivocally allowed both by budgetary users or by an institution owned by JLS to refinance the existing debt, here is how the current law now turns out to be subject to various interpretations, and it would be good if the laws were unequivocal and unequivocal. Also, here, there's a little time left, just to comment, I welcome the question of introducing transparency, what we've been through... Come on, we'll go through the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80815	We also have several replicas on your exhibit, respected representative Zmaic first. Oh, I'm sorry. First honorary representative of the Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80816	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Mandaric. Here, as you said, if I'm not mistaken, you are, this is your second term as mayor of Djakov. I am, I am taking the opportunity to publicly congratulate you on this, not just you, but all colleagues who are 2rd, 3rd, 4th, etc., the mayor's mandate, the mayor's office, because winning a second or third or any further term is a big difference in winning the first term. So you've been maximum and transparent and people know and know you because Djakovo, regardless of what the city is, is a relatively small environment and there you know exactly who Marin Mandarić is, how he works, what he's willing to do, etc., and these stories of transparency, etc., these are all the floscules that are to entertain the public to be here, there's something to talk about, and what Marin really is, it will show in the next election when he's running again, i.e. Is he okay... [[Thank you. The Honorable Representative...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80817	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80818	Here, thank you for more of a comment, colleague Shashin. Thank you for your congratulations. Well, the question of transparency, of course, is what it is. Is through this transparency everything to see and the city of Djakovo was placed in order of cities that allowed applicative insight into all payments from our jury account at the beginning of this year. But I specifically, when I go in and I see any city, the question is, what does that really mean? We see some numbers there, we see some companies there, legal and physical persons who, who are paid to, are services, products, works, and what does that mean? It doesn't really mean anything in itself. And of course it's always kind of a decision or being created based on some final perception of the election. The people best know and the elections best show who acted transparently, properly, clearly, and correctly. And of course, transparency is talking about it. Okay, um... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80819	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80820	I thank the Vice-President of HS, here, colleague Mandaric, in today's debates we heard both a lot and a lot of praise and criticism. I've noticed in this new law, there's a lot to praise and you said yourself that it's a pretty good law and here, I think it's this part of the budget, and that's a multi-annual plan... budgets to units of local self-government and regional and their users, which means that the surplus funds or the lack of funds... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the budget, we won't have to implement the surplus if we can't meet it in that current budget year or the one we're short on, if we can't cover it we'll also be able to plan through the balance over the next two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do you comment, here's the content of the budget plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80821	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80822	Yeah, here, thanks for asking. Well, of course, it's all about introducing, so I say fiscal controls, order, fiscal discipline, which has been introduced long ago to the national level, but down to both county and local levels. So that the bill and, of course, all units of local self-government that have been shown to be more significant, whether the surpluses, whether the deficits are budgetary and cannot plan to close them in the first next financial year, will have to make such plans. Of course, I welcome this, as well as the introduction of many other things that will make it clearer to define only the spending of budgets, I say again, the implementation of the budget and, of course, fiscal control. By introducing and implementing strict fiscal controls, the state managed to trust public finances, to put it this way, not only public finances are state finances, but these are our cities and municipalities' finances.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80823	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80824	Thank you very much, dear fellow Mandaric. I'm interested in what you as mayor would do if, for example, Your head of finance pays the fraud John Smith 50,000 euros, and as you look at transparency in that context, some say it's flossula, I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80825	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80826	Well, thanks for asking. The answer doesn't have to be hypothetical, I'll tell you what I did in that particular case. What the Law on local officials and tenants predicted and ordered, took all the legal steps prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80827	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80828	Thank you very much. So in the last few years, most of the city budgets, the municipality has certainly made significant revenues and funds from EU-funded projects. Through this Law, I have noticed changes in relation to the current law, which will certainly, in my opinion, facilitate the implementation of projects or some of the provisions are much more flexible, e.g. the provision on the redistribution of funds, then on long-term borrowing and on capital aid to legal persons owned by units of local administrations or self-government, which has not been the case so far, but there was certainly a need to show on the ground. I think this Law can have a significant impact on better project implementation, but also on making it easier for local self-government units to decide and prepare a more significant, therefore financially stronger EU project. If you also believe that by adopting this Law, cities or municipalities will be easier to implement projects, but also easier to make a decision to prepare more important EU projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80829	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80830	So, colleagues Blažević, like you and I, believe that this new Budget Law will greatly facilitate and encourage many units of local self-government to enter bigger, more significant EU projects. So far, the law, few of us, so to speak, has narrowed down the maneuvering space on some of the unforeseeable pathways of the implementation of EU projects. Now this, this Bill of Law, the Budget Act and some unforeseen circumstances, if they happen, gives us the opportunity to go or redistribute the funds whether or not in such a way or in a way that units of local self-government are in charge of that difference of funds so that they can complete or close the financial structure of a particular eu project. What we plan to do at the beginning when we report eu projections we witness that little, little bit, so that financial structure is not the final one, and this amendment of the law actually gives us this flexibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80831	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Ljubomir Kolarek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80832	Dear Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, before us is the Budget Act, and since I am the head of a unit of local self-government from northern Croatia whose tax revenues are from the economy, but from production, not from tourism because we are not so lucky as to have so much money that we can carry out individual projects without borrowing. Why do I see great progress in this Budget Law? First, no one here has mentioned the decentralisation of tax revenues that happened since 1.1 if I am not mistaken in 2018. where the tax revenues of local self-government units have not already doubled but tripled. This first gave us as the leaders of local self-government units a big wind in the back so that we can engage in EU projects or eu funds. And at one point we as a small town of 8,000 and a few inhabitants, but thank God with a strong economy we had four projects, we were happy, we were happy to build an entrepreneurial center, a sports hall, a resort for cyclists, an unclassified road, and when we started to slowly calculate, we were able to collect how we would finance it all together because then the project had to be funded, then we came to a problem and we were lucky that in the city council there was one, I would say transparent unity where even the council members of the council saw that the projects could not be realised without borrowing, that they understood and that the decision-making so far was either short-term or long-term borrowing going together. And that's why I think what this Budget Law is about is not going to be a big commitment to us because we've been doing it for a very, very long time, we're transparent and visible, and believe that every citizen of every city or citizen of every municipality is very sensitive in the way that tax and money is being spent and that they want to see where it's being spent. And I think that this law in that part has made a very big step and all of those I'm going to say a little bit of unserious mayors and mayors, and even mayors are going to put a lot of money in a position to get serious and to treat finance like it's their home money from the family. When a man is a master with family money, he is very careful about every kuna he spends, and so should we local self-government leaders treat taxpayers' money or money to the units of local self-government that we come from. I believe that, and I'm sure by this law, many projects will be able to be bridged in a simpler way, and transparency and some other things I think that's for some I'm going to say a large, large majority of local self-government is not controversial. There are individual cases to be sanctioned, and I agree with that, and I believe that in this debate, which is very interesting and good and quality, there will certainly be some amendments that will raise this law to an even higher level, or that it will be even more quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80833	Replica has respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80834	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kolarek. My municipality does not depend on tourism in my municipality tourism contributes with six million kuna of total 38 million kuna budget, but what I do is very responsible, very honest with all citizens, so it was not a problem for me and during the covid crisis to cut my budget by 25%, abolish grants or reduce donations and sports clubs and associations, prolonging some projects etc. Because people knew we had to do it if we weren't going to be in debt, that's the point. What I'm up for, and why I've put my answer to my line to one of my colleagues is that once you've approached the local self-government units Rigidly, and we know that in big problems as many of yours who can't afford what you are in Omislim, we can afford why we're only doing it to them, why don't we do it to the state? Of course, all governments were in charge of fellow Boric, of course, but let's not, so you should know from experience, let's not put such a burden on local self-government units that you don't. I can only bear to place that burden without a mechanism [[Step Reiner: Thank you very much, esteemed representative Kolarek.]] to help them. [[Intruder Reiner: Fellows stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80835	Stop, you're never gonna stop in time, please. Dear Representative Kolarek. [[I'll just tell you maybe you've got me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80836	You may have misunderstood me, but I'm going to say that the city of Prelog 30% two years in a row reduced the municipal fee to all economic operators of this area, that we bought two respirators worth 500 thousand kuna and donated to the county hospital, gave up money sports and sports and fire and many other associations, and so I'm happy and proud to be the leader of one such JLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80837	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Kolarek, I have had the opportunity to visit your town and I can indeed testify about the numerous projects that you carry out that contribute to the development of the whole region and that you are a kind of example in Međimurje County, but also in other parts of Croatia where many municipalities and cities want to reach that height and level of development. I'm interested in what projects are in your plan now, and in which segments do you expect and support from the state in the realization of these development projects?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80839	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80840	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. Well, here we are, the country's biggest support is the construction of a roundabout of nearly 100 million, and of course our goals are, here the other day we celebrated City Day, we opened an extended part of the economic zone completely communally equipped, but I have to say that from 16.2 hectares of land still remain available only 2.7 hectares, so that the economy is harder and, of course, our goal is to go to POS's apartment, although there are no conditions in view of the high cost of this construction, but we have to, because I think that we as JLS must be an example of building apartments to keep 20 young families in Prelog, in Međimurje, in Croatia, there will be lots of kindergartens and, and that's our goal of not being demographically affected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80841	Thank you. Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80842	Thank you. Here's colleague Kolarek and you're JLS leader as well as I am in the sixth term, so here's this story from individuals that we local sheriffs think year after year can also be shown in these local elections that our citizens haven't punished us and I don't think I'm a local sheriff. And here's the law and it's prescribed these violation provisions that will punish those who don't comply with their regulations by the Budget Law, so it'll probably be through some way and see in the future that these local sheriffs can't do what they want to do. Please comment on these misdemeanor provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80843	Dear Representative Kolarek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80844	Thank you very much. I think that these criminal or criminal provisions, I said that in the speech, will seriousise individual leaders, but I'll tell you one more thing. There are small municipalities, small JLS and I think they will need these small ones because we have in Međimurje, Donji Vidovec, Donja Dubrava, Kotoriba, Saint Mary, perhaps JLS will think about joint services. The municipalities will need strong people in finance and in the economy to be able to function normally and in quality. And as for these sheriffs, I've never been called sheriffs and I can look everyone in God's sight and try to act normal and cultural and be a man of the people in my community where I live and work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80845	Dear representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80846	Thank you very much. You've talked a little bit about the transparency of cities and municipalities and can fully agree that most JLS is already transparent and now transparent. My view is in general that within one system should be a single legal solution and this law actually offers this, it prescribes through certain articles the obligation to publish budget documents, but also for example. A guide for citizens in the budget we've had so far, individuals here and we've been doing. I wonder if you agree with the claim that most cities and municipalities are already in practice in fact implementing certain provisions of this law that contribute to transparency and that this law will even the practice in all JLS which we need, in fact, a uniform practice and a legal framework so that we can all work in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80847	Dear Representative Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80848	Well, I agree with that, actually, I'm sure that a colleague has previously listed a 10th, 12 or 13 JLS that are already a step or, or, or are already with the proposed law. There are more because every year I am the mayor and how that test is conducted, or, or the control of transparency, we always get an "A" out of that transparency. In Međimurje County, almost 50% of JLS is on that grade or four, but I agree that we should all have one, one single example and that we all do the same whether we are in the north or in the south or in the east of Croatia we should be unique in the implementation, in the implementation of all laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80849	Thank you. Now, the honourable representative Goran Ivanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80850	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State and all of you people who have come here today to present this law. Two words in this HS are pronounced and this is practically independent of what is the debate. The first is “perception”, and the second is “transparentity”. That's two words I don't think there's a parliamentary representative who didn't say them, and we couldn't understand clearly what the poet was going to say. Well, I'm also going to use those two words because I'm actually part poet, so I think I'm entitled to it. I have a perception that most parliamentary deputies don't care at all what happens in HS except that they know when it's 8 a month to receive, receive their salary and say so well I've been through this month it wasn't so, nor bad. As for transparency or more perceptions, then we'll move on to transparency. In Croatia, there is a perception that these wonderful people who are chiefs and mayors, all of you are, in fact, criminals, thieves, local sheriffs who steal so much that it's simply impossible to endure. Totally false, I think it's something that doesn't matter. I think most of these people work for the benefit of their community, even under very difficult conditions, are not all... Croatians in the same position let's be honest. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's Ljubomir was just talking about it, before he and Marin came from Djakov and I think this law goes to them in that sense to help them where they need it most, which is, of course, European funds. So far, this form of EU funding and borrowing has been quite, quite different, it is changing in that part. I will agree with all those who speak here Tomislav is sitting here a man who is a wonderful mayor who can really be an example in Croatia how to manage, how to do, how to create new jobs, that is the essence of everything. I think every local self-government leader needs to look at himself in the mirror first and ask whose money I spend. I'm spending taxpayers' money, so why don't you write to them if I brought them in if the secretary of state came to me, I took them to lunch at a local restaurant, we ate, we had something to drink, and I don't think there's a problem at all. Now, we have that other problem, we have this problem that every citizen or most citizens will point a finger at the mayor, they're going to look for that transparent budget on the Internet, which makes it easier for him, too, if he doesn't have to go through then the Institute for Information, but they don't know how to use it. This law even predicts that there is a guidebook for citizens to use the information they want, which they want to check and which they want to get. I think that's it, I think that's good. And what I've acquired at least, here I am now going to be a little bit perceptive, and I'm going to be taken over by that perception. I've gotten the impression here and I'm gonna defend him that most of the laws we've passed over the last year and some days are actually slow, but he's certainly closing that smallest pore through which something that might possibly not be in accordance with the law. You remember that we also changed the Law on Electronic Media where it clearly states that the head of regional self-government, the local self-government, has to call a tender to see which of the media is going to report to him, so far it has been quite different. Therefore, a series of laws that apply to this. I think the transparent budget should really be the highlight of this local regional self-government, but also our task would be to fight against that, that really one bad, bad perception towards the leaders of local self-government does not create because Josip Boric is well said here in his replica, I am afraid that in 4 or 5 years. We simply won't find a young, young girl, a woman, a man to do anything called local self-government at all, is it so contaminated not by their actions but by what the public has put on us often untrue, often unfounded, but unfortunately it makes young people out of politics, from that, and the leaders of local self-government have done so much good in these last 30 years, among them were probably those who tried to put their fingers in a jam, one part of them being responsible and should be responsible for that, but I think that this law well detects certain things and at least the beginning of that solution that we seek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80851	We now have a whole series of replicas, the first respected representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80852	Thank you very much. A colleague of Ivanovic, you were gathered in Osijek-Baranja County and I don't know what was the problem of perception or transparency while you and your fellow mayor were acting as well because I think we have a problem here. There's one perception, we heard it, all local leaders are sheriffs. It's in the media space outside and it can no longer move any transparency. No one's going to convince me that the program that Mrs. Devereaux has is gonna convince me. Ahmetovic shows to the end everything the citizens are interested in, a paid invoice to a restaurant, a company, etc. Don't say what's behind that invoice. It's worth so much and all the rest are stories within the citizens themselves. I don't care what she's doing in the Omistry. It's for local communities, but what's the problem of getting rid of the perception that we politicians have imposed ourselves, which is that all criminals, sheriffs, etc., is that what citizens reward in the election? So here we are constantly being attacked for something, HDZ in local elections 276 units of local and regional self-government, SDP with all transparency only 60,... Worse. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80853	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80854	Thank you very much for asking. Stipan started with Marina Mandaric on the subject, of course, the citizens will always decide who they will give their trust to and there is no speech at all and there is no dilemma about it and so, in my opinion, it should be. But what's, what's a fact, what's certainly important is that we, as a good part of politics, put ourselves on the line because of the irresponsible individuals of a certain old age, and now we just put up with it as, like, damage. Of course, the rivalry between the two of us sitting here in the assembly will always exist, because it needs to become because it maintains this one condition political that is very, very important, but it needs to be clear and overly clear in the sense that we simply don't hide something that is much more important than something that is irrelevant, and that we have shown. I think that transparency should be at, in the first place, and let's be honest we often know how to be skilled at it, I don't think of myself, of course, or you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80855	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80856	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ivanovic. As a former mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, you have indeed had experience working with units of local self-government and certainly can competently tell your experience since you live in a relatively small place that has no real personality, is not a municipality but is in the town of Valpovo. What is the difference between just such small environments that do not have the ability to create themselves or in some way work on projects of infrastructure, developmental property, in relation to municipalities or environments that are practically more independent and which can in some way develop themselves on their own, or decide on their own fate? Is there any difference in who's in a better position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80857	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80858	Thank you very much. I've realized that it's also possible that local self-government leaders will also understand what it's all about, it's about the undefined relationship between the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and that's the part I'm talking about local committees that are totally something that is undefined and what in the new law or it's going to be defined or deleted and it doesn't exist. That's a big problem. That's where you can show who the local sheriff is. You have that one option won at the city level, and another option won in my village. I'm done, so there are no projects for me, there's absolutely nothing for me that's a big problem and there's a big problem that someone really wants to be a local sheriff that needs to be dealt with naturally in the new Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I think and I will think and I will defend until the end that Croatia's structure would even go to more units of local self-government because it would also give opportunity to those who have not had the opportunity to implement, through their smart people living in their midst, at least part of the projects that will never be realised while they are within the city or some larger whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80859	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80860	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that you mentioned this very perception and all that is happening, in fact, what is the perception of citizens if we look at that Budget Law as parliamentary deputies, and it is brought up by an urgent procedure, they are actually very little interested because it is a framework based on what we will be doing further in the country, in the unit of local self-government, in the regional self-government, and it will actually create and make a picture of us and our responsibilities both outside and towards the EU and every citizen of this country. So this perception can be questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80861	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80862	Not only the perception of respected MPs, but transparency at the same time. There were even MPs here who talked about the budget that we adopted two, three hours before this debate, therefore so much about it. What I see, and I think I see well, sitting here all day listening, following and watching, of course most of the MPs are interested in being in the media, being visible. I'm only in the media when I pass by when someone's talking, then eventually I'm watching when I'm going to pass by to get my mom to see me so she knows I've been to the Parliament, but I'm not going anywhere, so then there's questions about what I'm doing in HS at all if I wasn't in the media. And the media is going often before the debate and the opinion is taken at all we have not conducted what people think, but it doesn't matter, his opinion is the most important thing that is relevant and that's it. Now that's wrong, I think the Parliament should always be full, there should be a competent, overly reasoned debate, that's where policies should be hit. Not in ideological but in terms of projects, and then it would be a Parliament like I wanted to see and... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80863	Thank you very much, we all probably agree with your words, but you're way out of time. Honorable representative Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80864	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ivanovic, you are really often behind this speaker and you work a lot so that here I can confirm as the chairman of the Agriculture Committee that you are an active member and, if you should say so, I am willing to testify because it is all true. You were talking about perception, but we have to say that both those worthy representatives and less valuable and those responsible leaders of local self-government and those others that have been characterized here as local sheriffs are being elected. They are chosen by citizens and citizens have instruments in the elections to choose them again or not to choose them, so I think that this dilemma that we try to raise awareness here that we need to work, that we need to be responsible in this business will not be resolved today. But I'm curious because you've touched the local committees, do you think the local committees should have legal personality?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80865	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80866	Yes, and now it says in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government that local committees are legal persons, but this legal personality has never happened and that is what the problem they need to return to the local community institutes like it was until '93. Although it was declared some kind of model that was someone else's, no, it was a decisive model and I think my Ladimirians should manage what little money they pay in that town register to end it in the Ladimirs, I think it's fair and there's no problem. But we have another problem, we're bad students, that's the problem, and here we sit, and everybody else. You know, it's been years with us when a financial report is filed in some association, then there's two items of income, expenditures then when expenditure goes, then it says other unremarked services or I don't know what, and that's five times bigger than what it is... So I like the part about citizens getting a little guide how they can be used and how they can get the information they need. I think that might be the most important thing in that whole story. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80867	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80868	Thank you, Vice President. So, you told your colleague Ivanovic about withdrawing funds from the EU, or from the funds themselves, that a large part of us are aware of the benefits that the whole state is accomplishing in this way, but the fact is that we still have those leaders who do not. Whether because much greater control of the spending of such funds or simply not are capable, they have no capacity whatsoever, but the fact is that they exist, it's the end of the year, underlining the line so you can see who's actually doing what. How to help those leaders who have not yet regained consciousness you have these benefits of withdrawing funds from the EU, if they can jump in, can county development agencies, so someone has to explain to them that spending taxpayers' funds is not the best way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80869	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80870	Yeah, it's like farming to you, which is the advisory service that's going around the field, which gives you some advice. Budgetary reasoning is a very important item in the budget. The mayor and the mayor who doesn't explain, although most honest mayors and mayors do explain the items, to the last level and really write that what was spent on is what was important. But learning is something that lasts a lifetime. Let's be honest, some became chiefs, people had no contact with local self-government, they ran, they were elected by their citizens, I even proposed in time that centres such as Osijek who have a university, that it had a small department that would last a hundred or more hours, which would just bring in the headmasters, their deputies, to train them a little bit how local self-government works, which is the local budget, to carry out, it wouldn't be, It wouldn't be bad at all. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80871	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80872	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your presentation, you devoted most time to perception and perception enables us to recognize certain phenomena or events in our environment. What a perception of the opposition, we heard today, and we hear it every day. However, I think the perception of our citizens is far more important, so here, half a year ago, the citizens best showed what they thought about our foreigner, so they showed us four times more trust than the SDP, so we had 1,766 independent municipal councilors or city councilmen compared to 421 who won the SDP. In the county congregations, we received 303 seats compared to 153 SDPs. Tell me, what do you think of this perception of our citizens versus perception... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80873	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80874	The numbers are... and there's no speech at all in the calculation it's very easy and to prove and show and I don't think there's any problem at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What bothers me is that there's a lot of mud on us here, that we're a criminal organization, that we're some kind of corrupt organization where you should be ashamed of yourself at all. It's not good, it's not the same, and that's the part of the perception that we're creating to throw out some people's links, to be unwanted in their society, just because they're members of a party. If someone didn't steal something, so let them answer, some people, as far as I know, still sitting in prison, and they used to be our members, so we operate on that part, these laws that we make, let someone tell me, so why are we passing this law? We have most of the local self-government leaders. Why are we forcing them into transparency? Let's let them be in the gray zone. Well, it's not HDZ's intensity. The HDZ's intensity to create one frame that will be for all the same, equal, But they'll be the best for the citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's the point of the story. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80875	Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80876	Thank you. Oh, there's so much being said, it's like it's a pre-election rally. But here, just in the beginning I'll only be brief, so on the defense of the amendments two days ago on this right side there were one or two MPs, mostly no one, so I don't think we should talk to each other like that. Next, the fact is that HDZ is legally accused of corruption, but you said that we've all come across these local leaders, and that they're actually people who work well for their local communities. So then I ask you nicely, as you interpret the fact that the state's audit is precisely the financial business of local environments is finding the most of the problems and these local environments are mostly getting conditional opinions. First that. And secondly, I would ask you, too, if you can comment on the fact that transparent budgets are the most public presence of Bjelovar and Omisalj that do not run HDZ. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80877	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80878	Before I answer anything, last night I traveled to Zagreb and 10 to 8 I listened to a bedtime story, you also played, in that story, it was beautiful and here I am to you... That's what I wanted to say. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As far as these conditional opinions are concerned, I have my own opinion on it, I also think that it might not be good, that I'm just conditional on telling you something, and whether you're going to do it, you're not, I don't think, I think that this law is actually going to be important to mess up and just some things that maybe, maybe a little bit more girls than you should, even though it doesn't always have to be there to be some crime, that it's that people, I don't know, stole some money, but they just tried to figure out how they're going to shave and cross over to finish a year, and that all the users are still calm. And the other thing about this, so I don't have to comment, is that citizens will always give their own judgment, and I think that next, the SDP, HDZ, in that sense, I don't know, everyone is responsible for their actions and will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80879	Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure,...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80880	Well, I was thinking, Yes, 238. [[What was injured in the Rules of Procedure? /]] I've been thinking. Indication Disdaining parliamentary deputies. [[Intruder: 573.]] I've been thinking about whether or not I'm going to hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I've decided that I will, because the cynicism that you've said your praise to my reading of the bedtime story is indeed a demeaning of parliamentary deputies. I, as an actress, have the same The right to be in this House as [[Good. Yeah, that.]] everyone else. [[Intruder: At all, it doesn't matter...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80881	...with a breach of the Rules of Procedure This one and you get a warning, please don't abuse the situation like that. [[There's, there's a Mr. Darling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80882	No, no, no, no. vice-proportional... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80883	There isn't. He's a colleague of Ivanovic's. Please. ... Comrade Boric, you insist on the same thing? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80884	Thank you very much, Vice President. The same Article. 238 because it was now a demeaning of our assembly representatives and fellow speakers who praised the bedtime stories read by Mrs. Ursha. Well, we have even better readers in the House. We've got Mrs. Wess. Kristo and we listen, as well as bedtime stories. But it is the citizens who will eventually say what perception is, which is transparency, and what is the story of good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80885	Okay. And you're going to get, of course, a warning, I'm asking you, come on, come on, it's been a really serious discussion and I think it's been very useful and there's no point in going in any direction that we don't like. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80886	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ivanovic, this is what I will state in history. I fully agree with everything you said in your debate, and especially with the one about the transparency of the budget when you mentioned that when the accounts are published, you will see who ate, etc., etc., and that will really contribute to the transparency of the budget. I do not agree with the only praise at the end of the discussion of my colleague, Boric, who said he was not interested in what I do in Omislje, and should be interested in him because he is sitting in benches in the Assembly and responding to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and affecting the creation of this Law. So the only problem, not in your debate, is the fact that this law does not allow such transparency of spending of public funds as Dario Hrebak promoted and besides, you, or HDZ during the 2020 election campaign. This is not the transparency that you discussed in your debate. But your debate is excellent and I commend it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80887	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80888	Thank you very much. Well, I believe that Mr. Boric will eventually start to take an interest in the budget of Omis, it's no problem, thank you for that, and let me use these 40 seconds to answer, because I have no other option but through this replica of Mrs. Raukar, no, however, vice-proportional of what you're saying, I wanted to commend you because I think that we Parliamentarians are not just parliamentary representatives, we're doing something else in our lives. I noticed this when I was traveling that you did it, I liked it, I often listen, I mostly listen to the first Croatian Radio program and mostly listen to it and I heard you and I wanted to commend you that you still find time with this job to do and that. And if I wanted to offend you, believe me, I wouldn't do it through bedtime stories, but through some other stories that are much, much harder and that don't let a man sleep, this is still It's good night, and then it's good night, and then it's good night, and then it's good night. [[Thank you. Your Honor. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80889	Dear Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80890	Thank you. My colleague Ivanovic, I prefer to go to Zagreb late in the evening than.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80891	Well, no, no, you got the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80892	May I? Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: Of course, you've got the word.]] My colleague Ivanovic, I'd rather go to Zagreb late in the evening than early in the morning, and we're about the same distance, only I haven't followed in exactly what time is this show on HR1? Since I like to listen to it, it's good shows, I didn't realize when it was, so if you could do it a little bit, about what time?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80893	19.50. 19.50 every night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80894	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Raukar-Gamulin, in which is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80895	238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. The insistence on demeaning for the simple reason that I reiterated a simple fact, which is that the HDZ party is legally accused of corruption. Please warn the MP not to belittled by repeating...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80896	No, I'll warn you not to abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, please nice, please. And because we don't treat our vanity in this way to raise plates with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you nicely not to do that. Of course you'll get a note for that, a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80897	I didn't hear you. Dear colleagues, or colleagues. When I thought about this replica, I gave it last because that siren's call is always irresistible. So you started your exposure to what I've been listening to since the start of primary school. You know, when you go to elementary school, then the classroom says, "Someone's late." You know who he says that to? The ones in the class. That's how you started it, so Parliamentarians don't do their job. Who did you tell? To those who sit and do their job. I'm surprised every time I see a new parliamentary representative, and I hope you know all the MPs sitting in your... /incomprehensible/... at your club and not being surprised, but I won't be out of the picture, although the whole debate is off topic. We have 556 units of local self-government, different capacities. How do you think we're gonna make it, that we're gonna be able to even up the practice of this Budget Law that at least we have the same denominator and that all units are going to be around you? The same way the final result gives. [[Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80898	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80899	Well, thank you very much. Thanks for asking. It's very simple. That's how you started your replica. Learning. Learning. We have to start learning from primary school, so on, we've been learning our whole lives. So also here, to get to those standards we're pursuing, we have to learn. All of us who were once the leaders of some regional, local self-government, without learning there's nothing, but also without laws that force us to learn, I deliberately use the word, I don't have.../incomprehensible/... and as far as the MPs are concerned, I don't have any problems here, with yours or with ours. The same goes for both. It's an obligation, and it's a duty, and there's nothing I meant to give to those who aren't on this, middle or any other side. I just wanted to say that we are also creating perceptions and that our transparency should be much, much greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80900	He will now speak to the respected representative Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80901	Dear chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. I personally have absolutely no problem with this bill. However, all that is prescribed in it must be obeyed. Transparency in that part, I don't think it's an absolute problem for anyone, not a single unit of local self-government. But I have a problem with something else. In the war, in the army, I remember, armored vehicles and tanks had on them a device that was used to produce smoke. And that smoke would have been poured out with a field and covered up the launch of troops and various different traps that were being set. And this whole debate today, but the debate of previous laws, whenever a unit of local self-government touches, always attacks against these cities and municipalities. I am telling you responsibly, and I am 5 mandates full of mayors, that there is no city or municipality that is no longer controlled by any institution in this country and by the State Audit and by the citizens, by no means do I know who not. Well, we can't even be in charge of not asking permission from the Ministry of Finance. So it's all transparent. Whether we publish it in this way or in that way, very important, we will publish it. But the whole story of some kind of crime, of thieving, of something that happens in cities and municipalities is simply something that's become degutant, and then it's something called pulsism, and it's this pulsism that's that smoke and that fog. So now we've recently abolished the deputy mayor and mayor, so we've reduced the number of councilmen, we've made a huge savings, I don't know. I remember the amendments to the law, he went in this direction again, some kind of savings, some kind of attack on local self-government units from 2007, when the headships were abolished, and the units were so tough, and they're getting along in these circumstances, and they're again finding a model of how to build a water line, fix the road, secure public lighting, build a sewerage, secure their citizens' lives. And they've been doing it since '94. when this is how they are built. What's happening here in the Parliament and tonight's debate about these local sheriffs, and I don't know what, if there's something going on, but look back at all those 30 years since there are, how many of these names and last names of people have been processed in these cities and municipalities? Based on these few, perhaps 10 of them, 556 people are blacked out, and all the time in this House they're called local sheriffs. It's just unfair. On the other hand, we have HRT. What about him? When Milanovic was there, I asked for this speaker, what the principal's salary was. They were hiding, they wouldn't say, I don't even know what his salary is today. It's also funded by citizens' funds, and we each pay those 80 kunas, associations, companies, everyone pays for it. Croatian waters. Since procurement is not done, as much as a team has been paid, we are talking about a team here, I don't know if Mirela in Omislja will honor guests with 2,000 kunas or Boric in Lopar or Gari on Rab or any of you? And this is where millions spin. Billions. In the projects. And then the focus is tossed just like that smoke from the tank towards the cities and municipalities. There's corruption. There's a bribe, there's something wrong. I don't have a problem with this law. I'm not in charge as a city, and we can pay off all our debts with extra income this year, that we don't have any debts at all. I've got 115 million kunas and only 8,000 residents and projects like in the story, and it's all done by 24 people in the city administration. And I have to justify all the time they're doing. What I do, where I am. I'm not saying this on my own. I speak this on behalf of 556 people, the mayor and mayor throughout Croatia, from Dubrovnik via Primorje, Istria, Dalmatia, Zagorje to Vukovar. People who work. When we talk about local self-government units and we're going to make some kind of savings, we're going to cut the council, we're going to cut the fees, we're going to cut the deputies. I ask you, who is preparing these projects for the EU? Who's running them? Who's doing them in the field? Well, it's you, what we call local sheriffs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80902	We have more replicas, the Honorable Representative Boric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80903	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, I don't think it was populism what you were saying about the deputy and councilman. I think that's where we showed that we understand certain situations and that we want to develop local self-government. The alternative is what SDP offers us. And what they offered you is now at 12%. They offered to abolish local self-government, as a program, meaning territorial reconstruction, that means abolishing and not saying anything. Look out, we've won 276 local self-government and county elections. They've got 60. At what point does the initiative appear? When they were 60, when they fell down to unrecognizable. Let's go with it, instead of resigning, because they're bad, 12% of the popularity of polling, they, let's get rid of local self-government. All right, we get it, but then we expect Mrs. Webb. Mirele Ahmetovic said that as Chief Omishi I am giving my municipality to the town of Krk, I will connect with the town of Krk, the first. No, let's go solve the rest of you, you're a problem. No, I don't. First example, Mrs. Crescent. Ahmetović, and then g Comedash... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80904	Dear Representative Klaric. Thank you very much. Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80905	From the beginning and from the founding of the state and from the events of war, something has been manifested, and now here in this crown crisis, something has been shown which was at the time it was formed in '93, '94. showed full efficiency. The vision of Dr. Franje Tudjman, the formation of these very cities and municipalities, formation and county. I'm asking you, and, look, seeing this demographic situation of ours, what is it like now that there are no small municipalities and cities in both Zagora and the islands, and here's your Lopar, who could provide those people who live there and how many of them can provide infrastructure with basic conditions for life, to stay here in the first place? We have experience from the time of Yugoslavia when we were all in some communities of municipalities where money and people were poured into some centres, in Rijeka, Zagreb and around, and in all the surrounding places, the existing municipalities and cities were not built even the necessary infrastructure. And in those buildings that were built, you can go look at them with those tables, built by means of self-dependence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80906	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80907	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Klaric, I think in this law, maybe you can't bring yourself into this right now that the transparency we're going around right now I don't know how many two hours I think you should write if possible, but you can't in this law and that's morality. I don't think this is just a matter of transparency. Some of them were very transparent, so they were sitting somewhere in some places weird with bars, so they went out, so they were mayors, mayors, or I don't know what. Now it's a bit of a moral question. Whether or not such a person has a morale to run for office again, so I would talk about it no matter what option. So the question of morality may be more important in some countries than transparency itself. And you have one question, thank God you've experienced with all those people you've hired and the companies you have, so how do you manage to pass that transparency? And in the end, I would ask by the institution, so the ministry not to go into that pre-trial a little bit of a clear tourist community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80908	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80909	Here's your replica, especially in the opening part, that reminds me of one proverb, I won't tell you until the end because it's a bit simple, but who about what, someone about honesty the most, and then it happens that those who talked the most about honesty to finally watch them ride into some kind of fenced space. So transparency is something that is necessary in itself, because it is the money of the city, of the municipalities, of that tourist community that you mentioned and I am in that short part because I have little time touched both Croatian waters and HEP and HRT and all of these. But in this part of transparency here we have all the mass of these associations that are financed from urban, municipal budgets and also by the state. Well often in those items, here's a colleague Ivanovic touched it when we see those other expenses, look at the bills. A lot more eats the team than it eats some real activity of theirs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80910	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80911	Dear colleague Klaric, here I fully sign everything you've said, and here I am glad that you've looked back on the fact that we're from a local level declared criminals. I'd just like to get on top of you and ask you a question and ask you to expand the lab a little bit, which is with the others, which is with the ministries, which is with public enterprises from the state level, the county level, from local levels. If it's an archaic for us, then the archaic shall be for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80912	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80913	Well, I think whoever listens to you has simply no other choice but to agree with you. You, as chief, mayor of myself or colleague Mirela as chief, are responsible for that money in the same way that everyone else should be held accountable. So if there are rules for one, then those rules have to exist for another, because money is the same, the funding model is the same, the accounts are sent by both us and the state. And recently when we talked about this Law of Conflict of Interest, it was for what? Why the conflict of interest committee? So we have the IRS. They know how much money anybody gets and who has. If she's on the right foundation. Who is it that won in the meantime in these four years of any term of office? Because it's one of those smoke curtains, so let's do a little bit of conflict of interest, so we'll prescribe what they say in the fine Croatian language... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80914	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80915	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Klaric. I'm going to ask you a question, although it doesn't exactly apply to your local self-government unit, but I believe you do. Just before we heard from counterpart Ahmetovic that the municipality should not be in debt and that the financial well-being stands which I am truly pleased with. But we also heard from her a long time ago, a few years ago, a noise against LNG terminals and all that. I wonder if you know what the revenues are, what the benefits of local self-government, or its municipalities from LNG terminals are. I'd be very happy if someone made me a LNG terminal in the Danube so that my community could collect income and in some way employ people and ultimately profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80916	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80917	I don't know exactly, Mrs Ahmetovic will probably give you the exact information. But I can give you other information. Namely, I was an advocate of this LNG terminal, I was an advocate of the Pula gas pipeline – Karlovac in his own time while he was building himself simply for the reason that he was my end, not to tell my city, but to my end made two things possible. One thing is that from this master gas pipeline Pula – Karlovac dragged gas into the space of our industrial zone, and the other thing is that with the construction of LNG is right in my hometown of Evil, built an MRS where this gas pipeline from Omis is connected to this gas sample that goes right into that business zone. And that this business zone doesn't build the town of Bakar proves to itself that at this point, it is employed without cooperatives anywhere near 5,000 employees, so it crosses the borders of my city. We're developing that zone for everyone around us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80918	Thank you. Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80919	Thank you very much. Vice President, we have a colleague, Klaric, 576 regional and local units, and I don't think transparency is at stake because we see from those reports that the counties have submitted all the reports of those sought by the Ministry of Finance, the cities, some 4.7% and the municipality of 4.45%. So our leaders know how to do whatever we're not talking about party membership right now. But there's one problem that's about to arise. We're talking about reducing local administration units, and now we all know how much the municipalities mean, it means having a community for the local population. He takes care of communals, takes care of kindergartens, some associations mean life in a municipality whether it's small or large, but each municipality has its own way of life and needs. Whether it's good for you and whether it's a solution for the community to be abolished or reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80920	Thank you. Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80921	Let's look at these small municipalities and cities and in areas where people are at all employed in each of these municipalities and how much the costs of these employees and what costs would be if they were connected somewhere with another city or municipality, would they be much smaller. Would the quality of service in that space be greater or smaller if they joined another unit of local self-government? I personally think, and on the trail and replica set by my colleague, Petir Goran Ivanovic, about the status of local committees, or former local communities. As long as it is Croatian and in the smallest environment in our area, it lives there. When that's not there, there's gonna be deserts, and then we're gonna listen and watch TV shows of wild boars tearing down somewhere near the settlement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80922	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80923	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you fellow Klaric that the constant review of the need for these municipalities, especially smaller municipalities, is really unnecessary and becomes counterproductive. Because if there weren't these small municipalities, the question is, would any infrastructure come into those parts at all, would any of these people remember? And in order to stay alive in the Croatian village, they need basic social, social and municipal infrastructure. Someone has to take care of them and sometimes these small municipalities have a very big problem with human potential to find enough quality personnel to then be able to apply for European funds and give added value to the space in which people live. I'm interested in, like, you're the longtime head of a local self-government unit. In which way you show the costs whether this is transparent, available to all. And the second question is how do you treat those local committees where you may not have gotten most, do you support their projects if they're good?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80924	Thank you. Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80925	Apropo of this great – my small town currently runs a water line worth 12 million kunas in one section at 950 meters above sea level, where only a dozen families live. If we were within the former Rijeka municipality of such a project, there would never be. That's one thing. The second thing is the power we have as a small town with these tens, fifteen years we've achieved all my students have free textbooks, work notebooks, first-class girls just need to get dressed, comb, get into school, get everything they need. We've got free city transport, we've got pediatrician, we've got logos. It's all financed by the city. The pensioners got 300 kuna resurrections, now they got 300 kuna Santa Clauses. So it's something that can't be a big city. It can be a small environment that knows well any of its population and what it is my dream and my desire to have that neighborhood piled up and be as many young families as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80926	Thank you. Honorable representative Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80927	Thank you. Dear colleague, I believe we will agree that no realisation is good nor that all local leaders are fantastic, nor that all local leaders are disaster leaders. I don't think that's just like any generalization stands. However, I will repeat the question to you too, i.e. I will ask you to comment on how you comment on finding State audits, which still finds the most problems right in the local environments by giving these assessment of the conditional passage. Well, here, I'd be interested in that. I'm not talking about you personally. I'd just like to ask you in principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80928	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80929	After the war, a relatively young man came into this part of politics and my ambition was to build some kind of plumbing in that village as the chairman of the local committee. What helped me and I believe helps all the unit leaders are the very conditional opinions of the State Audit. And I even love it when they came into town, pulled out all the papers, looked at everything that could be seen. Here's the former minister. He'll know how long it took. It doesn't last one and two days, it's systematically done. Each of those conditional opinions was a useful tool for us and for my supervisor in finance and for my employees. Because many of these shortcomings don't happen because someone deliberately wants to darken anything, but simply because it's not listed here, but here, which isn't shown here, but there or not being carried out like this. So, I don't view the State Audit as something that will punish me, but something that will point the right way to the head of the local self-government unit. With these very conditional opinions, they point to a model of how to correct it and what is more important in the realisation of its projects, i.e. the functioning of the local self-government unit itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80930	Thank you very much. He will now speak finally for the esteemed representative Anton Kleman on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would just like to refer to this question of yours, given that I am a member of the Committee on Finance, so I often have these reports, or once a year we have reports on the units of local self-government and the interpretation of colleagues and fellow auditors are so, I would say encouraging. If there weren't any big mistakes in that sense, but that the thin line between parole and unconditional opinion was so nuanced, that sometimes they themselves don't know what they would have done conditionally at some point in time and the unclear laws that were passed by us in this House. There's a lot of it, and we've had hours and hours of discussion with the auditors. Then what they say is, change that law, and we'll make it clearer for him to do it. Here is a colleague of Lalovac's, indeed there are some situations that are impossible to predict, and I agree that then what he said and fellow Ivanović's perception that there are really many serious injuries that do not stand in any way. Here's what I can tell you from our discussions and firsthand with the auditors. What I would say in the final word here is really pointless at all now, since this has turned into a debate about the Law on Local Self-Government. And I'd say we're free to say that this Lex Hrebak is finally out, and the intensity of this whole law is completely different. I'd agree with my colleague Lalovec for saying it was the law of all the laws. But here we had, we didn't actually have a lot of opportunities to hear about this law that brings a lot of new ones and I'd say a lot of good in its content. And through the very articles of the law, it just defines the behavior of transparency. So here we have one situation that the budget as the most important act of public finances must have an explanation that must be clear, thorough, transparent if you will and which is an integral part of that budget. Then we really have one set of articles that defines and facilitates the units of local self-government to function when they are in debt, so when EU funds are used. So, all that we've been listening to in this House for months back that everything is hard, that everything is impervious, etc. I think this law clears it up and gives opportunity to these very valuable colleagues that we have heard today, who have defended their position with full rights, therefore the leaders of the local self-government units to work even better, to work even better on the well-being of their fellow citizens and their entire, therefore their units of local self-government, as well as in the whole of the Republic of Croatia. I think we lost a thread in this debate, we caught some transparency. I'm sorry about that. I cannot correct it through the final word definitely, but the law is good, the law is meaningful, the law will improve the conditions of business in our units of local self-government and administration and regional administration. And I think it will be seen very quickly through the withdrawal of European funds and through the better use of these funds to contribute to a better life in places throughout Croatia. And I also have to say that I agree with all those colleagues who are truly dedicated to their positions in local self-government units, that they are not sheriffs, that they are people who owe us our respect. They've caught up with a job that's not simple, and we can see for ourselves, they can suffer as individuals, their families, their friends, their acquaintances, a pretty bad label that's not easy. And sometimes we ourselves, our fellow Parliamentarians, have contributed to it, but we do not need to encourage a certain way of expression, but I would say that we should give courage to our colleagues to continue doing their work the way they did. And they definitely trust their voters because they won their seats again in the previous elections, but also in this House as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80932	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. So let's go to the next point, and that's the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 198. – Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. As you know, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion at the 8th session of November 12th that adopted a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expenses Act and addressed to the applicant the comments, proposals and opinions which were presented in the debate. [[Intruder Reiner: Please be quiet, please on your way out!]] As regards this final proposal, it contains certain technical harmonisations which have been accepted and presented by the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee. Generally, as I last mentioned in the context of excise taxation, it includes one system that is harmonised and another which at EU level is not required to be harmonised, but is limited to the basic principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and thus the part is arranged. As regards the harmonised part of taxation, there are excise products from categories of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco processing, energy and electricity, and the other mentioned in terms of unnecessary harmonisation refers to taxation of motor vehicles, coffees and alcoholic beverages. They are governed by two laws, the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Alcoholic Drinks and the Law on Special Tax on Motor Vehicles. As regards income at the level, they amounted to 2019 at the annual level. 16.2 billion, the 20th because of a general situation known to be 14.5 billion, and the execution for the twenty-first so far is 15.3 billion kuna of the planned 15.8 billion kuna. As far as this law is concerned, it is therefore in this part of the excise taxation that is harmonised by law is harmonised exclusively in relation to the three EU Council directives. The first is 2020. 262. This Directive is otherwise referred to as a common system of spending and change as a common system of information on the system of movement within the EU by releasing excise products into consumption. So there's something going on from the paper system to the e-business. The deadlines were set during the 1990s and thirds until the beginning of the twenty-fourth. We hope that this, not to hope, will certainly simplify business and reduce taxpayers' costs, and, of course, also the Tax Administrations as a central system in this context. As regards these same Directives, in the context of the legal technical harmonisation of the excise legislation institutes with changes in the customs system, the aim is to improve harmonisation, simplify the handling of excise products placed in the customs territory of imports or exports through the definition of uniform rules and conditions, thus reducing both administrative costs and the aim is to ensure possible excise debt and to prevent fraud. As regards the introduction of common thresholds to a partial deficit or loss of excise products, given the characteristics of goods, the existing system shall be amended in a way that will be harmonised as common thresholds to be prescribed by the delegated act of the European Commission. This will, of course, apply to the Rules of Procedures on excise duties and decisions of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce regarding the Republic of Croatia and, of course, each country individually. The second directive relating to the exemption from excise duty for the EU defence efforts under the number 2019/2235. It is binding on implementation in order to equate the application of excise duty exemption with regard to defence efforts taken to implement EU activities in the framework of a common security and defence policy with excise duty, which is already being applied to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, therefore NATO. The third and perhaps most important directive under this law is so-called The 2020 Alcohol Directive provides for the exemption from excise duty for small producers of strong alcoholic beverages producing up to 50 liters of strong alcoholic beverages per year by household and using it for their own consumption and consumption of members of their own household or their guests. This provision has so far been in our legislation and it has been prescribed that taxing excise duty of up to 100 kuna for the boiler of the volume of up to 100 liters, and over that 200 kuna. The European Commission has launched several proceedings against Member States that had such provisions, including amongsts and against the Republic of Croatia. During the presidency of the Republic of Croatia, there has been a correction of this Directive in the sense that the rules of conduct, the habits of the citizens of individual Member States have been applied, and now the norm has gone into the very provision of the directive and that more than 100, or 200 kunas are not paid. So, I'd say they're relieved of small liquor producers for a total of about five million kunas a year. Of course, there will also be certain monitoring mechanisms to avoid the institution being misused. Further introduction of new institutes independent small producer, independent small wine producer and with the possibility of applying a reduced rate of 50% and an independent wine producer in our country is zero percent in terms of competitiveness as a producer and up to 15000 hectolitres per year. In conclusion, with regard to the introduction of excise duty on alcohol when such products are used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products, we must have the exemption or in the production of food supplements as optional release, which is primarily thought of by producers of propolis inktura, i.e. beekeepers. In short, it is about the amendment and addition of the Excise Taxation Act in the context of the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80992	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first of his respected MPs, Capelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80993	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. State Secretary, you mentioned independent producers up to 250 if I'm not mistaken. Who and how will control whether they have produced so much or more? And also the level of penalties that are determined, whether they are also done on an average in Croatia or whether it is insisting through the directive that a certain height must be. Also another little explanation, there's been a lot of talk these days about fuel consumption, i.e. height whether swimming or other, why VAT is calculated on the total figure, and not excluding excise duty. As far as I know it's even a directive arranged, and this part of the swimming I think is Slovenia or someone has given up on it, because it obviously didn't prove to be meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80994	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80995	Thank you very much. So the point of this is control. You mentioned, so if it was found to be larger, then the standard rate would be applied. So it's not some significant punishment, and that standard rate is 6,000 kuna per hectolitre of ethyl alcohol or translated 24 kuna per litre. Now it's nothing, and if it's determined that craftsmen do, it's 38,374 individuals at the moment. Also this second one around independent producers, they are either a halved rate or a zero rate. As far as this is concerned, Slovenians gave up swimming excise duties on October 1st, and they only make sense if the price of oil derivatives is regulated. It is also not applicable in the basics to prohibit European directives, so that we would do so first if we could.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80996	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80997	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State after my first reading, I spoke to some small liquor producers and they, of course, look forward to getting rid of it. However, there are still certain unknowns, some who still produce little more and do not use the Internet, are not used by applications. They're actually asking if there's going to be a way to communicate with the Customs Administration so they can use the same forms as before, send them in the mail, or there's some other way to log in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80998	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u80999	Thank you very much. As I said in the context of this directive of general spending and change systems, the Customs Service is a central body. All possible types of communication that are modern will continue to remain and those who are not modern will also remain both by letter or in a third way. As it is so far, it will be required to register, but it will not have to pay the excise fee as it has paid so far. So we understand citizens that they have some difficulties in terms of possible communication with the service, but we believe that the service is as well as she knew by now when to pay excise fees should be seen in the context of communication and understanding and speeds of data exchange. I'm sure that's the way it's gonna be in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81000	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81001	Thank you very much. I'm actually interested in something in principle. So the characteristic of excise duties is that simple taxes are simply collected because they are collected in some absolute value. We, as you have already said, excise duties are related to tobacco products, alcohol and energy products. According to the latest data I've been able to get to is some distribution that about 56% of the total cost-gathering mass is energy, 30% tobacco, and now I don't need to add up alcohol quickly. Has there been a change lately in energy prices and everything else, or is the ratio of that 100% excise duty that we still collect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81002	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81003	Thank you very much. I haven't shown in percentages, but I have in absolute terms, and that's exactly what it was until August of this year. But by looking at that data, the energy was at 5.2 billion and the tobacco processing was at 3.7 billion kuna. A year ago, for a year earlier, the 20 energy was 7 and a half billion, and 5 billion tobacco processing. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing It's a little higher, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81004	Your Honor, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since there is also a serious debate at EU level on how to lower energy prices and that there is, in fact, in the calculation itself and in this excise duty itself, my question is whether you have information on whether at EU level is doing something to not say the formula for that calculation. You know why? Because today it shows that energy prices are the main driver of inflation. And that's what later concerns the EU and the European Central Bank and then some countries bring in different, I don't know if we're freezing administratively, someone else is entering some other models, and since we know that it's important for the driver of inflation, it means whether at EU level, and since we're talking about directives, it's unique that it can then prevent the impact of inflation which is much worse than just increasing energy prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81006	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81007	You're absolutely right about that. What I am pleased that the European Commission has recognised in its document and has articulated since 13 October this year, according to the Member States, two Ecofin meetings have already been held on the trail, so the finance ministers. And now, in December, a meeting of the leaders of the Member States was planned to carry out additional analyses, adapt the needs of measures in terms of action and support. So, the point is to try at EU level as harmonisedly as possible. Unfortunately, we also have a situation where individual countries, especially those who have not or have intervened by the state, are looking at what kind of manual the situation will be, and some say that this will create addiction, so we will not support, some. Some say we should be supportive. Some say it will end in April, given the general movement, so at this time this harmonisation is not so much at EU level, so we were forced by the government of the Republic of Croatia to act with that regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81008	Thank you. Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81009	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, since I come from the heart of Slavonia from Brod-Posavina County, where the brandy of plums is produced, we roast it means brandy of plums, so I'm curious about what good it brings to our producers, our farmers, our farmers this excise tax code related to the traditional production of plums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81010	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81011	Thank you very much. Therefore, if we consider that the institute is an independent small producer of the product, it is an average production of no more than 250 hectolitres per year, i.e. 25000 liters per year. The rate is 50% than generally prescribed. So, of the currently registered, 33 of them all meet that condition. As regards an independent small wine producer with an average production of no more than 1000 ha per year, and an independent small producer of other drinks obtained by boiling no more than 15000 ha of excise duty is zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81012	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And the first one will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81013	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to excise duties, the key issue today is excise duty, at least on fuel, or on gasoline and diesel fuels. What I have already warned here from this pay phone in the Croatian Parliament more than half the price of fuel today is actually VAT and excise duties. I will not say from this place that these excise duties are completely pointless, but I will say what is crucial, which Croatian citizens will understand that excise duties in the situation as they are today, and that when a huge crisis is and when a huge financial blow is right through the price of fuel to the standard of Croatian citizens should be significantly lower. I will even say that I was not bad at this decision by the Croatian government to freeze fuel prices to 11 kuna and 10 limes, but I must stress that it was on the burden of those who distribute fuel, i.e. those who produce, means both gasoline and diesel fuel. I believe that the burden of the crisis, first of all, would have to make it easier for the state, or the state, to bear the burden of the crisis, and that all those who produce, who do business, do business, should feel that burden as little as possible. So from this place I can invite you as a resolute ministry, as well as everyone else who deals with this problem to be second or first, or it may happen very soon, that precisely those fuel prices if they are affected by them are reduced through a reduction in excise duties. So when we talk about excise duties, we have excise duties and tobacco products that are extremely large and large. And if, I will now even offer one model if at some point the interest of the state to keep fuel prices as low as possible, let's go through what is also the interest of the state, and to make Croatian citizens as healthy as possible, let's raise prices on tobacco products and reduce excise duties on fuel. So, the thing is extremely simple. The burden of the crisis must not, of course, be borne as little as possible by Croatian citizens. All those involved in the production process, all those involved in fuel distribution must bear the burden of the crisis, but something less, and ultimately the Croatian state must have the greatest impact on the fuel price in this regard, i.e. to help those involved in distribution, fuel production and those who spend it, and these are Croatian citizens to make it as easy for them. There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81014	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81015	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, dear colleagues. It is before us in the second reading of the amendment and addition of the Excise Tax Act. I told my colleagues because other than my colleague Reiner we're all women who actually seem to be with us most interested in excise duties, but that won't interfere with us having a good debate and a good-level discussion. So excise duties are a special form of tax. The excise duties are no newspaper, they've been known in Europe since the 16th century, and the first to introduce them was the Netherlands. What characterizes excise duties is the convenience of paying if something can be called the convenience of paying, because it is about the simplicity of collecting. They are killed, so excise duties go absolutely to make significant fiscal income. What I asked the secretary of state was what the schedule was, because the excise duties on tobacco products, on alcohol, on energy, and then we have those special taxes on cars, on coffees, on luxury products, and they're all in this one relationship and what they're characterized by, they're characterized by some other things. But before that, we are in Croatian legislation in '94. The year we first introduced excise duties and then we had a few excise duties, to get at one point to some 10, 11 on different things. But not to say wrong about ten. What I'm trying to say is the role and importance of excise duties. So, if we can say it that way at all or as soon as it's mentioned any kind of tax, is it this simple that's easy to pick up, or is that VAT, of course, that we all get stoned and that everyone wants them to be as small as possible, to be as righteous and, of course, that the end-user gets as little damage as possible. What I'm trying to say is, I've been looking and looking at what's important about excise duties and what effects they can have that aren't fiscal. We know about fiscals absolutely, and that's what the Secretary of State told me about the absolute values that these are the amounts that we raise in the budget from excise duties. But I'm interested in those non-fiscal effects and why these non-fiscal effects are equally important. They're important because through these excise duties and through collecting excise duties you're basically talking about some three aspects that are important to society. One aspect is the preservation of health, the other aspect is environmental and the third aspect is social. So, this first aspect of the preservation of health, I think it's absolutely clear to all of us when it comes to tobacco products and it's good to extend it to some other products that really affect health especially children in primary, secondary schools. So that's where I'm talking about those energy drinks and all those other guys that turned out to be really having a problem. This ecologically, of course, is clear to us because we would all like to have these green policies, development policies. And now we get to this social one. I want to bind this social to one fact, which is when Croatia was pre-accession to the EU without saying when all the processes of Croatia's entry into the EU were very current and fast, if I remember well, and we all remember well how many inscriptions there were, how many different open ones that were then, I don't know therefore different shows about how no more cheese and cream can be sold in Croatia, that people will no longer be able to produce alcoholic beverages for their own production, how can I not say now is the age of the necklace, so it has opened up too. So those who were, and that's always the case, so those who were against Croatia's entry into the EU, our fellow citizens were scaring us all together, because at one point when you join the EU, it'll be scary -- you won't be able to do anything, so you'll have to take all those bad options. I never hide and speak clearly from this pay phone, I am one of those who I think Croatia has only won by joining the EU, that it is much better to be in society better than myself and then learn from them and be better than in society worse than themselves, and then pretend to be the boss among them all. I think it's much better to be here. Did we learn enough that's what we're talking about from this pay phone, and every time we complain and we don't think we've learned enough. But when it comes, so this excise bill goes into two readings. The first reading took place the same way as the second reading. One of the things is this information at EU level on the movement of excise products released into consumption, i.e. on which excise duties are paid. And this one horizontal intervention in the EU in this excise legislation is extremely important. It is important that you can somehow make comparisons with all others, somehow see where we are and what we are, to meet that goal of harmonising and improving this treatment with excise products, to define simple rules and conditions and, of course, to reduce administrative costs, or to prevent different frauds. So no one is immune from fraud and we don't think it's the exclusive of this area of ours, but what's good is it's good to coordinate and be kind of harmonised and harmonised. What these amendments and additions to the law seem to me that, because they mainly talk about products within alcohol or alcoholic beverages, few alcoholics, and there are now really defined, when the exemption from paying excise duty on an individual alcohol, when it is in veterinary-medical products, when food supplements. We also mentioned these small producers of strong alcoholic beverages. And what has worked for me from our fellow citizens seems to me that it is now defined in the way that it is possible. Is it ideal to the end, if we're going to have it all the way to the end, if someone's going to get through, we're going to see it, and I'm going to see every law and I'm thinking about every law that no law is somehow carved into stone, so there's going to be changes and additions. Before me, my colleague referred to energy excises, referred to the fuel excises that caused us a really big debate for the simple reason we had at that time fuel, or we had, we always define ourselves at the price of diesel, the biggest price of diesel in the whole area. So, when you look at countries outside the EU, which are not in the EU. But it seems to me that what's a danger lurking behind a hill, it's like being attacked by a lot of snow, and now you know when the snow starts to melt that there's going to be avalanches. I have a feeling that she's a danger that we're relatively little about, and we should talk about it no longer is this excise problem, but I'm taking that opportunity when the secretary of state is the problem of inflation. So we live in one time, there's this curse that God gave us to live in interesting times. We feel that curse on our backs. We live in a very unusual time, living in a time of coronary crisis. It's no longer a corona crisis, it's a elemental battle for common sense, for health and battle for life, and behind it all somehow announces really that snowball that's been attacking out there like an avalanche, that possibility of inflation. It seems to me that I don't need to be afraid of anyone with that in the public space. It's bad when you go and you announce it, so everyone gets scared. But I think it's worth special attention, worth a special conversation, and worth a special relationship with it. Because if that avalanche goes, then all of our debates and our excise duties and everything else will fall into another plan. Otherwise, these amendments and the addition of the law seem to me to be one step towards a little better, according to a little bit more regulated, and somehow it is another one of those laws that fills my task of why we are a member of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81016	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81017	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As in the debate in the first reading of this law, I can only conclude that this proposal is an amendment to the Excise Taxation Act in fact to amend the EU acquis, i.e. with several directives, among which the most important thing to do is to exempt from paying excise duty for small producers of strong alcoholic beverages. It is, of course, those who produce up to 50 liters of strong alcoholic beverages per year by household and for the sole consumption and consumption of their own household and guests. So far, the excise duty has been paid on a boiler of up to 100 litres, 100 kuna a year, and on a boiler of more than 100 liters of 200 kuna per year. And here are the people for their little needs, for their own personal needs, so the non-commercial needs will be freed from that payment a hundred or two hundred kunas a year, as I said in that first debate, not much, but it's still good for reasons that don't really need it because they don't actually earn from the production of those alcoholic beverages and we welcome that amendment of the law. Of the other positive changes, a colleague of Mrak-Taritash said something about it. The release of excise duty on alcohol used for veterinary and medical purposes as well as the possibility of applying a reduction in the rate of excise duty for independent, small wine producers between products and other beverages obtained by boiling should be mentioned. However, what I really want to point out here, I also want to talk about the Croatian tax system, which includes excise duties, which is one of the worst tax systems in the world. And that also confirms our global competitiveness status, where we are only 59th of the 64th economy observed. And of course that this indicator of competitiveness is affected by the tax system itself, although the Republic of Croatia is true compared to other countries, and as far as profit or income tax is concerned, it has relatively low rates, if we are talking about the EU average, and we must recognise that. In this regard, however, these data mean nothing if we do not see them within the entire tax system and not only its nominal characteristics but also the government’s own policies that the government uses, or implements using these instruments of the tax system. As I have already said, the relatively low nominal rates of these two taxes are imposed on the other side about two hundred other different parafiscal charges. At this time of the economic crisis, and I am talking about the economic crisis and the covid crisis and inflation that is here between us, that is to say, because of the terrible rise in energy prices and other products, the Croatian Government has decided within its policies to limit the freedom of competition and temporarily limit fuel prices to 30 days, and then it has done so for another 30 days, and I must also point out very legally and legitimately. However, given these above-mentioned results of global competitiveness, it is still completely missed because the government's policy is the result today, and the result is the following. Therefore, prices were limited by the very impact on the free market, i.e. the restriction of the free market, and had a short-term effect which, although short-term, cannot be fully characterised by positive reasons for threatening distributors, which is why some of them also did because I was personally able to ask for those premium fuels, which is a more quality fuel at one of the gas stations, and where they were not offered. Therefore, distributors threatened not to sell premium fuels at that price because they simply cannot withstand that price limit in view of the price of the purchase of these premium fuels. And what is the fact that these premium fuels, or better quality fuels, are used precisely by businesses for their machines because, of course, it is in their interest to keep them as high - quality and in good condition as possible. What is also an indicator of the failure of this policy is the fact that today we have a situation that the government has defrosted this restriction, i.e. the frozen prices, so it has moved away from the impact on the free market, and the fuel price situation is unchanged, or the price would have been lower if it hadn't been for the freezing of prices. For what? Because distributors have obtained raw materials prices at a much higher price and they simply have to use these raw materials, i.e. to sell and cannot sell them at lower market prices. Some here at the assembly head off to it, but that's exactly what energy experts like Mr. Decanic said in public the other day, in the media, and that's clearly how it is. What the President of the European Commission did during this enormous increase in energy prices on the market, it urged Member States to use all their mechanisms at their disposal to curb the impact of inflation on citizens' standards and to maintain economic activities. Croatia has below 20% of its own production of crude oil and our price depends on the one on the international market. The share of excise duty is quite large in retail and about 60%, so if the base is large then others are imposed like VAT and retail prices are even higher. However, as the only EU country, Croatia decided to transfer the fuel price problem to the distributor at that time and not give up its share of the cake, i.e. excise duty. The SDP Club, we in the SDP have then proposed to reduce excise duties by 0.5 kuna per litre, i.e. 50 gallons per litre for diesel and 1 kuna and 10 liters per litre for gasoline, by example. And that's what the state could have done without meddling in the free market and without having a negative impact on the rail and road sectors financed from excise duties. What I would like to point out further, the Republic of Croatia has a very good result in terms of revenue in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue, in terms of revenue from excise duties and VAT, and even in the budget of 2022, the Republic of Croatia plans, and of a much larger amount of revenue, from the source of excise duties and from VAT. Even the entire budget actually relies on EU aid to help with VAT revenues. So the space absolutely on that base for the reduction has. What we have suggested, so even if the government did not want to accept a reduction in the absolute amount of these excise duties, even though that is exactly the kind of space it was and today, our proposal was also to exclude excise duties from the VAT base. Yes, this reduces VAT revenue but in the short term, as this reduction is mostly compensated by spending on other products and other services. However, the government decided to keep its piece of cake, and I believe, and I hope, on the following occasions, they will consider the proposals that came from our side, which indeed had the basis for both the income side and the economics let's say the incentive policy in terms of and the protection of our entrepreneurs, so be them and the energy distributors. The government of the Republic of Croatia has only intervened by limiting the margin which is why they have already followed as I have said and reactions of distributors and fuel sellers precisely to those threats, let us also call for warnings that they will deny, in fact, the delivery of more quality fuel and what I point out is that on these occasions, we really need to think twice about what to do because we cannot allow the availability of certain services, the availability of products that are actually the standard of a civilized country to depend on who delivers this service especially when we have mechanisms to prevent such a warning or threat and without some major impact on the sustainability of our budget and our economy. What kind of government policy did I say was that 59 place out of 64 on the competitiveness scale, because the government of the Republic of Croatia is taking fire measures instead of designing a fiscal policy, or fiscal measure that will support the very competitiveness of the Croatian economy, while at the same time discharging the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81018	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81019	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In general, therefore, the amendments and additions proposed by the draft law aim to bring the current Excise Tax Act into line with new changes, i.e. amendments to the EU acquis in the Excise Legislative segment, as well as to bring individual standards in line with each other, to bring the doubts in line with each other, and to improve the text of the law in language and in no-technical terms. Also to facilitate the recognition of the status of small independent producers, including those of small independent brewers and small distilleries, and the application of reduced excise duty rates in other Member States, the Customs Authority will issue a single annual certificate confirming annual production and compliance with the prescribed criteria. The paper resulting from EU excise legislation is also the possibility for Member States to allow only certification to small independent producers without applying to the competent authority for the issue of a single annual certificate and to reduce the administrative burden on the customs administration and to allow that possibility. And Croatia is otherwise known to require far more standards than the countries in the environment especially when we talk about food production, which usually leads to abandonment and demoted our own entrepreneurs and producers. So I'm glad that we've settled at least partially and at least for some products. The use of the computer system and the application of uniform common rules is expected to relieve administrative treatment and facilitate the work of the economic operator as well as to ensure the conditions for the legal handling of excise products and the proper functioning of the internal market, with better control of the movement of excise products. In fact, EU information, the movements of consumer-leaded excise products will have a favourable effect in terms of facilitating business for the involved economies in the common EU market. Economic operators operating in excise products released into consumption will be obliged to replace the paper-based way of dealing with electronic operations so far, which will simplify the business process. In this respect, they will be able to use a web application of the Customs Administration in which the costs relating only to insurance of the pre-condition for access to the application will be charged. There is also the possibility that economics develop their own IT systems. The positive effects on small and medium-sized enterprises with the basis of the fact that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are also expected to use precisely these arrangements in the delivery or reception of goods within the EU, as they are more suitable for smaller shipments and fewer shipments, and require lower amounts of excise payment instruments. The procedures for such registration and approval are simpler although the administrative burden on the consignment is still higher, so the information should make it easier for them to operate and stimulate them to be more involved in the exchange of goods on the common internal market. It is clear to all of us that the purpose of informing the administrative dispensation of businessmen in the trade of excise products released in consumption with the owners and from other Member States is expected to modernise the current system, simplify, speed up business processes, or reduce administrative burden. In addition, let us hope that the establishment of uniform rules and conditions for the dispatch and receipt of goods will result in an expedient effect on the behaviour of the owners and better functioning of the internal market, and additional conditions for legitimate business are ensured through the mandatory registration of the operators involved. Information on the movement of excise products released into consumption will also affect the strengthening of the system of monitoring the movement of these shipments within the EU. I believe everyone will agree that those who follow us to announce system information and only facilitate business themselves wait too long. In my first reading debate, I commended in front of the House Movement Representatives Club the release from paying excise duties on strong alcoholic beverages produced by a small producer of strong alcoholic beverages, among other things, with a comment that when we talk about the production of strong alcoholic beverages, it is about one of the fundamental human rights clearly metaphorically speaking. But as there were those who were called upon to react like a factographer who had a desire to correct or perhaps mock my metaphor, I will remind myself again of this place. In the area where I come from, but also in many other Croatian regions with homemade brandy is toasted to every child born, every baptism, every crisis, every engagement, and clearly every wedding. Rakia toasts life, even everyday life when you need a good throat disinfectant. It's extremely common in folk medicine for every wound on a man or an animal, in a toothache when you need a lining to take off the temperature. You can even use Raki to clean, you need brandy in the kitchen for sauces and roasting, liqueurs, winter. They're clearly buried next to the brandy, and they're burying the nearest ones. Let us never underestimate the tradition of the people, for it is better to die a village than customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81020	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Grozdana Peric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So this is the second reading of the Law on Change and Completion of the Excise Tax Act. As we all know more or less excise duties or so on. Excises are a special form of sales tax and one of the oldest tax forms that were primarily charged from beer, alcoholic beverages, salt, sugar and the like, and so today those excise duties are actually taxed by products with non-elastic demand, and bonds are producers and importers. So we can divide and put excise duties into three categories, which are alcoholic products, tobacco and energy products. So, we are in line with this law with the EU's gains, i.e. with the three directives as already mentioned in the introduction. And so it's very important that these directives are primarily achieved? We first achieve the harmonisation of system information and movement within the EU of excise products, so that this information actually introduces us into a computer trans European system or so on. The EMC system thus accelerates movements and excise products in this system. Second, it is the harmonisation of the Institute of Excise Law and the application of Union customs legislation. The aim of the coordination is to improve and simplify the handling of excise products placed in the customs procedure of imports or exports, thus making it clearer to define the rules and conditions which reduce the administrative costs that exist within the system. In addition, common thresholds shall be introduced to a partial deficit or loss of excise products in view of the characteristics of the goods. In addition, what we have noted is that the introduction and exemption from paying excise duties on products within the category of alcohol and alcoholic beverages when such products are used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products and in the production of food additives. In fact, it is really about the exemption from paying excise duty on alcohol when it comes to producers of propolis or beekeepers, and other food supplements producers which should also be taxed in the same way as they are, they must be registered as excise bonds. The next thing you know is the release from paying excise duties on strong alcoholic beverages produced by a small producer of strong alcoholic beverages. This is mentioned several times, and it refers to the official register which has some 38 of them in Croatia, it seems to me thousands, 38374 who have so far been paying for the production of strong alcoholic beverages up to 50 liters a year, or if the boiler was a volume of up to 100 litres at that time it was 100 kuna a year, or 200 kuna for those who were greater volume. Now this release was achieved that, in this way, households that use it for the consumption of household members and their guests, their own consumption does not pay that amount of excise duty, which is total annual in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, makes up about five and a half million kuna. It also prescribes new institutes of an independent small producer of other drinks obtained by boiling, and independent small producers among products and independent small wine producers, with the possibility of applying reduced excise duty. In this way, an independent and small wine producer with an average production of no more than a thousand hectolitres per year and an independent small producer of other drinks obtained by boiling with an average production of no more than 15000 ha per year for which excise duties are not paid in the RH excise duty amounted to zero kuna. Thus, this way, better competitiveness is achieved by our producers, which thus facilitates status outcomes and thus can be competitive in view of other EU Member States. So in this sense, I think that these changes and additions will significantly improve the coordination and classification and our countries into regulated systems, excise systems. And I think that in this way we are really improving our business as small-scale businessmen in this system. What should be said is that it has also been mentioned several times that it does not care about producers or taxpayers, but we can remember that in the fourth round of tax reform it has also touched the problem of excise duties where just the entrepreneurs who work, who deal with the transport of goods and services and railways, actually made it possible to return full excise duty to the amount of minimum eu excise duty which is 2.5 kuna per kilometre. This is therefore very significant for all entrepreneurs who were able to repay part of the amount that they otherwise paid in the fuel price. So, we as a HDZ club will certainly support these amendments and additions to the Excise Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81022	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the Social Democrats, and the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81023	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will, on my own behalf and in the name of the club, try to describe this law in a sentence that says this, that it is a law that is a step forward in relation to what we have so far in the field of excise duties. We have also seen this by the remarks that were made here in the Parliament during the first debate, or during the debate for the first reading, and by the number of amendments, I don't think any amendments to that law have come to date, so we really think that this is a step forward and that it will be much better for our taxpayers as well. But what I just mentioned last time today will again point out that this is a major obligation for both customs officers and inspectors, given that they will have a much greater obligation on them. This is certainly a major shift because it happens because there is a large data systematization, there is standardisation in part of the information systems, there is information and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that have so far been unable to inform about costs and that I do not list everything that happens in this field of information. I'll look back at the article. In 49, in order to explain to the public and perhaps to some colleagues who have misunderstood or may have misrepresented, and I see that the secretary has not responded to that, it is namely small producers of strong alcoholic beverages that are now being released from excise duty if they produce a very alcoholic drink of up to 50 liters. And so far, there were no 100 kunas or 200 kunas, so far a fee of 100 kuna for a small boiler has been paid, and 200 kuna for a large boiler, and for this difference, the amount of brandy that was baked in that boiler means between 20 and 50 liters, all paid for the excise duty according to the formula that exists in the law or in the excise duty rules which says that the volume times the quantity of alcohol times 53 if it is a litre or 5300 if it is hectolitres and divided by 100. And now we actually get to the calculus that one producer of strong alcoholic beverages for his household is actually freed those 100 kunas he paid for the boiler and extra if he baked these extra 30 liters of brandy about 650 kuna. So the savings are still slightly bigger than 100 euros, Mr. Secretary, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think I'm right. I mean, I said that because you didn't react, so let's make it clear to both us and our colleagues here in the Parliament and make it clear to the public. So now there's no more payment for the boiler fee, no more excise duty for an alcoholic drink of 20 to 50 liters means this difference that's been paid so far. And what I must especially point out is that you are the small producers of strong alcoholic beverages regardless of what they have to register. So every small producer of strong alcoholic beverages still has an obligation to register or register in the register of excise taxpayers. So far there have been about 38,000 of them, now there will be the same number again, with a number of them paying the fees, and one being released. I think that here a special effect is achieved in fact for small producers of alcoholic beverages in households for those who have actually been engaged in the traditional production of these alcoholic beverages and I think that it will be an additional incentive and that those who have not been included in the register so far, I think they will now be registered in the register because there will actually be different controls and stronger control measures, so I hope that everyone will be aware that no matter what products and how many products they are if it is up to 50 liters can register and that they have no more costs, which is actually positive for all of them. What is more important to note is that this entry into the register is extremely important in terms of the very production and abuse of this institute because we know how much some of our producers have taken so as to prevent them from passing the law I think it is good that there are additional controls. What I said at the beginning means again requires additional, additional surveillance and additional inspections which will actually do a lot more work for the Customs Administration and the inspection service and a lot more work. He would still refer to that article in the 59th that I've been dealing with here, the secretary explained to me a little while ago, even though it was explained in a law that came before us in a second reading where the dilemma was actually ours. Our dilemma was that we actually misunderstood, we realized that the means of transport that was taken away because the excise product was actually being smuggled, he didn't apply, that vehicle that was being taken away, we thought it would be sold before the proceedings before at the Supreme Criminal Court, but here in the explanation of the law we were actually explained that this vehicle would be taken as a guarantee, and that it would only be sold if the entrepreneur who committed the offence did not, it doesn't pay after that misdemeanour procedure, so when the infringement proceedings were concluded. I would still look back on the information that I welcomed last time, and I will point out once again that information as such is not only informing the application of excise goods or excise products, but in fact that this process facilitates the information and movement of excise shipments both within the country and within Europe. It is particularly facilitated, easier to track excise shipments within the state when they cross the state border during that shift, which was happening with us since we had a transition to go across the border and it was extremely complex and demanding. So my first sentence remains, so it's a step forward from what we've had so far, I think customs services will work much easier, I think we'll all be more pleased, our small producers of strong alcoholic beverages will be particularly pleased and therefore our club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81024	Thank you. An individual debate has come to light with a respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81025	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, who about what, and we are here at the assembly after we have voted for the budget, and we have rejected all our amendments on alcohol, which I actually mean joke aside, what I didn't say in the debate on behalf of the club, I'm going to repeat now. It is often mentioned and said that the opposition is not constructive, that the opposition is just saying that something is wrong, that opposition is like this and like that, so when it comes to this law, as a colleague said, I did not say it on behalf of the club, it is one of those laws that shows some step forward that shows that we have contact with reality and our club will equally vote for this law. Since maybe some things should be discussed one way or another, we can always discuss it, but this is a step forward. How do I read that step forward? I'm reading at a few, a few levels. One level to know what we have in reality. In reality, in Croatia, we have people who actually produce brandy traditionally for their own personal needs because it is a household that it has, without having such brandy hidden for years. It's the same way that one new industry developed, it's the fruit-cancer industry that wasn't with us. I remember well the period when the wine was produced, so when you said, when you asked what wine you had, then he answered two white and black. It's not like that anymore. So in Croatia we developed wine production. We've also developed fruit brandy production, and that's what we have to follow all the time. So what we expect from our legislation is to monitor the real situation. And the real state is that and the real state is something else that in this law when it comes to excise duty sees, and what we somehow left under the radar either on purpose or by accident in our discussions, which is small beer manufacturers. So, those little independent brewers. About five or six years ago, I think it was unimaginable, you only had those big brewers. Now we have small brewers, we have people who make beer and deal with some other activities, so they have this one, and small beer production and everything else, and I think it's regulated by this law. So, they, the one level I'm reading is positive, which is that we've become aware of the situation in which we are and that we need to help people survive and that those in some kind of small productions don't have to be like a sausage all the time, so the whole time the state says, now as soon as you move out and something makes me here to pick up my share. The second thing, is what I said and what I often mention, we in this assembly have, we Assembly representatives from some different parts of the country coming, there's a distinguished colleague who said that when he comes to work he reads, I come to work walking from home to here and watch what happens in Zagreb or rather does not happen. So, from the fact that we're both from different backgrounds and somehow and somehow different from a series of things, but I think when we see that some shift forward that we all have to see together and see it in this law. It's the same way I really take every chance to say the next one. And that is that Croatia can only read benefits from joining the EU. So far, I may be looking at pink glasses, no matter what I may look at pink glasses, but I have seen since Croatia's entry into EU benefites. I also think in real life that you should always see who's better than you, who's more skilled, who's more nimble, who's already been through some things because looking at the worse or wanting to be the least bad of the worst is bad, so we need to look into it. And this is one of those directives when we're harmonized, when we're keeping an eye on each other, when we're trying to sort of get along with everything. The secretary of state said in the opening statement that a lot of countries had problems with excise duties related to this, there were plenty of countries and pilot projects, if you are not an EU member, if you do not have the opportunity to talk about your specifics, there will never be any. No one will ever define them so that then we can define them because the easiest and the most angry thing that I've ever had is such a directive, so where we've tried to take care of it and stress our specificities, I see here this element which is and because of it as I have said we will support this amendment and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81026	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81027	Honorable MPs. I would just like to draw attention that this law is another proof that it is extremely important how people who are employed in some body of state administration function. I've been working with people, with customs administration employees since the beginning of the Customs Administration of the Republic of Croatia, and I know what the goals were, I know how they worked, and I know how they work today, and I know what the conditions for the Customs Administration to join the EU were, and today this leadership, which is at present, shows that they actually have a different attitude towards information, according to progress, and of course it's not just because we want to do it, but because in one part of Europe pressures us, but other indicators from the law show us that they actually listen to the public, and that's the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81028	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81029	If we had a fellow Pavić by midnight then we could discuss what kind of state administration she used to be, coffee is today, and what things should be and change. Things change in real time, we have all our smart phones today, and we can get information on those smartphones. It has nothing to do with the subject, but I had a very interesting show of course about the English kingdom and it says when the king who abdicated that the English didn't even know that he was in a relationship with the American widow because it was a block of everything. No one can block anything anymore today. You find out today before you say something yourself that you said. But to return to your question, what the state administration must understand, it must understand that its function and its task is to benefit the citizens because they are the ones who fill the budget. So she's not there, she's not a citizen there to make now They asked something questionable than the other way around. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-08-0.u81030	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. See you tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Contagious Diseases, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading. Have a good evening. MEETING Interrupted at 18:02 p.m.
