ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71520	Since it's 13 o'clock, we're gonna have to suspend this point temporarily and get to the point of view. First reported... And before taking a stand, in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose in accordance with Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose the addition of the agenda of the 9th session with 1 new point, which is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by the Social Democrats Club. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. 225th century 4 Rules of Procedure of written objections to the proposed amendments to the agenda, I would like to confirm that the proposed item has been included in the agenda of the 9th session and I would like to inform you that we will discuss this point today as the last item, and after we have reached the point of view and when we have completed this point, then we will begin to declare the amendments. Following is the statement on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71550	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. This free presentation of the position I will dedicate to the fact that the Croatian Parliament is still sitting today, and then leaving for a month of the so-called winter break. I'm saying that in the context of art. The 79th Croatian Constitution, which interprets the Croatian Parliament, is held twice a year on a regular basis. The first time between 15 January and 15 July, and the second time between 15 September and 15 December. And it gives us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, by the very letter of the Constitution, without any personal will or desire of any of us, the right to three months of so-called breaks, breaks or vacations. Without any populism, without a desire to court our citizens who are barely ending the end, without wanting this to sound like an end to the right of parliamentary representatives on some days of vacation, I call on us to consider whether it is really necessary to keep these provisions of the Croatian Constitution, or we could consider how they should comply with the needs of modern times. I also point out in light of the fact that precisely because of the impression that we are leaving among citizens all together, whether we are part of the ruling or part of the opposition, we are understood and perceived as some kind of privileged and hated caste. I am saying this and in light of the results of the research that was published in the media last year, and it was conducted by a team of psychologists, sociologists and politologists in the general population of Croatia, so that is what our citizens think about the work of a whole series of institutions, among which the Croatian Parliament is somehow going through the worst. Last year around this time, at the time of December, only 12%, only 12% of the population were satisfied with our work. So we really need to think about it other than this break, which is actually the right quality, essence or content of our work, even during the period when the Croatian Parliament is sitting. So the Croatian Parliament is the most important institution that cannot carry out its constitutional tasks if there is no trust in the work of the Croatian Parliament. And the fact is that, first of all, the constitutional role of the government controllers and then the constitutional role of any legislative initiative, we have not seen in the Croatian Parliament for many years and perhaps previous calls for previous mandates. The council is down to a mere escalator's arm. We have seen this in a whole series of laws that are crucial to the fates of our citizens, but break over their knees. To the harm of the rule of law, to the harm of the Constitution. We'll be able to testify to that tomorrow. If we are to make at least a small change, we could encourage a debate within the home working bodies, within various committees in which, in each of them again, the representatives of the same parliamentary majority also have a majority. So the question arises, and why is such a distribution of chairs, roles, jobs? We haven't heard from any single parent body or committee here at the pay phone any different or opposite attitudes, opposite opinions, different initiatives. The opposition has become weaker, as well as the control bar, the control role of the Parliament as a whole. If we want to change the perception of citizens about trust in institutions, if we want citizens to believe the authorities after choosing them in the elections, we have to start on our own. And for starters, we could start with the simplest and smallest part, which is that we come more often, more regularly to the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, to the meetings, to the debates. Empty benches represent the defeat of democracy. I hope we don't watch empty benches after this winter break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71613	The next statement of view on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71614	In all important documents of the Republic of Croatia there is a beautiful, powerful sentence – Homeland War is the foundation of a modern Croatian state. What about the war, the war of the Homeland which was waged by the Croats of BiH, is a topic I will dedicate to for the next few minutes. So in one difficult, dark side of that war, about the importance of truth about the Homeland War for the survival of Croats in BiH, through a brief comment on the long documentary film of the Wall, with the topic of camps for Croats in BiH. I also use the opportunity to announce today's promotion of the same film here in Zagreb. The client of the film mentioned is the Croatian Association of the Homeland War of BiH. The leaders of the protagonists are three campers, three presidents of the association in a row, Angelko, Carlo and Mirko. Three of them through the film, therefore, collect materials, analyze events in camps, visit other witnesses in different BiH places. They discuss experiences with them, share their testimony about torture and suffering. The camera is always somewhere on the side, somewhere, almost hidden. In order for the film to be easily monitored, it contains part of the archive material that introduces us to facts about the war itself. The customer’s goal was certainly not to make a film and show its truth, because they had already done so, under the quotes of the other and the third parties. We wanted to make a film that won't glorify anyone, it won't be troublesome or pathetic. The film not only for the Croatian Campers' Association, not just for the Croats of BiH, was a wish that can, which can be interested, cause the emotions of the average viewer, both here in Zagreb and anywhere in the world. And yes, the goal, or task was that the film should not have a political omen. Is that possible? It's not. The film, however, speaks of camps for the Croats and as such cannot be completely apolitical. Someone had to stand behind those camps, someone had to organize them, someone was doing terrible things in them. This person has his own name and last name and the task of the film, whether or not he wanted to admit these policies, point out the name and last name, to the holders and perpetrators of these policies. The film is not about naked statistics or an analysis of a lot of documents. Still mentions 331 camps for Croats under the rule of the BiH Army. It mentions 194 camps for Croats under the rule of the Republika Srpska Army. It mentions some 15 000 Croatian civilians and soldiers, who were prisoners of these camps, through whose witnesses, witnesses, parts of these camps, through part of the documents indicate inhumane conditions, cruelty, cruelty in these camps. The screenwriter and the trustee, Prof. Dr. Ivo Cholak, the film next to the victims, shows the everyday life of former campers, heroes of this film, their daily rituals, humor, optimism as part of the struggle with bitterness, torment. It is worth prominent and interesting music in the film. A song full of optimism, full of life, a song that seems to be struggling with grief and the pain of the main heroes. During the film, Angelko died, and Carlo, Pero, died, had to give up the scenario of the imaginary ending. Yet, the message finally managed to ward off bitterness, sadness prevailing, message of hope, faith to optimism. The film is definitely an important document, a witness not so long ago and difficult history of the Croatian people in BiH. An argument in the fight against the intrusion of stereotypes, such as LNG or genocide. The argument in the struggle to impose double standards, falsifying historical facts. In the end, one great thank you to all those who were bold, we were able to stand in front of the cameras, remember and testify. And honest congratulations to everyone responsible for shooting this movie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71644	Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, which will have a respected representative, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71645	Who about what, the ignorant of knowledge, and the dogmatics of science. The rulings are full of the mouth of science and profession, and in relation to the profession in this Covid pandemic best spoke, for example, the call of the Prime Minister, Plenkovic, who 3 days ago shifting blame to everyone else because of the situation, except for himself who holds all the strings in his hands said I will immediately invite Markotic to bring Rasdić to show me by Covid's department what it looks like because I, that is, I don't know, that this is a disease that can have serious consequences. This relationship with one of the two professionals only persons in Stožer, and later on, this treatment of Professor Markotic as some kind of hostel that will guide political non-insistents by hand by departments of intensive care and where even family members do not have access, best talks about the relationship between the ruling and the science and the Covid pandemic as a whole. At that time, the construction of the profession began when, instead of applying the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, they decided to comply with the civil protection law, the Civil Protection System Act, which gives us one curiosity in Croatia compared to other European countries, that at the head of the whole story and struggle is not the Minister of Health, but the Minister of Home Affairs whose professional qualification is an expert in general defence and social self-defense. What we all feel, for months already on our backs. Last week, we came up with some very interesting information. As an objection to a referendum that we wish to decide on measures that restrict human rights and freedoms to return to the Parliament and that article, Art. 17. The Constitution of the two-thirds majority is instructed that the Parliament is not an expert body unlike the headquarters. So let's see what the composition of the headquarters is. And what did we see? The headquarters consists of five graduate lawyers, four graduate economists, two graduate criminals, two building engineers, two traffic engineers, an electric engineer. There's also seismologist, physicist, agronomist and only two doctors of medicine. Of which one is mentioned Professor Markotic, whom Plenkovic treats as a hostel for leading opposition politicians by the departments of intensive care. So much for the staff's expertise. Of course it's a complete spin. Because by abolishing the Staff, the Minister of Health will make all decisions, with those decisions restricting human rights and freedoms being passed by the Parliament. Two-thirds majority. So there will be no suffocation of the Parliament, nor will the Assembly deal with the side details of the whole story. The public is justifiably confused and wondering what science is, and what is dogma, what is politics. Mrs. Simetin Pavić, deputy Mr. Capak at the Institute of Public Health, said the other day that those who are being vaccinated with the third booster dose will receive COVID confirmation of unlimited duration. Unlimited duration. A few days later, the German Chancellor in the show, Scholz, said he would reduce the duration of COVID vaccination certificates to six months immediately after his entry into office. And after six months, the vaccinated will be considered unvaccinated. Now, who do I trust? Medical advisors, obviously there are, Mr. Scholz, or Shimetin Pavić or Capaku when I now give Shimetin Pavić everything to sell, here you take a booster dose and then, unlimitedly. We've detected how to know the close intentions of the ruling. When they say they're not thinking about something, it means it's coming. Plenkovic said on 25.10. that he did not think, 28.09. pardon, that he was not thinking about COVID certificates, and on 25.10. Bozinovic said he was not thinking about COVID certificates. When he sees the wonders we've got, the arbitrals, the nakarads, and ultimately the dangerous ones. Now they say they are not considering mandatory vaccination, nor are they considering mandatory vaccination of children as a condition for attending school in the next school year. Here, they don't think about it even though always alternative Shimetin Pavić says it would be good to go to COVID certificates for children. So I would like to invite the public to reconsider all this once again, and remind myself that there are only a few days left to sign or join a volunteer signing for a referendum which we wish to return to the Parliament, as the most legislative body, by two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71667	Next is the presentation of the position on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71668	Your Honor. At a recent UN conference on climate change in Glasgow, the prime minister announced that Croatia intends to reduce CO2 emissions by planting more than a million additional trees annually by 2030. According to the profession's norms, the foresting of the naked area is carried out in such a way that about 1 m square comes one seedling. The review and processing of satellite footage on 2/3 of the territory of the Republic of Croatia has established that 100 thousand hectares of forest or billion squares have been striped from 2009 to 2019. The planting of a million additional trees, which are promised by Plekovic and ministers, is additional, is enough to make noise at only 100 hectares. It is often heard from the Croatian forests that 9 million trees are already planted annually from their own plantations, and if we add these millions that have been announced pompously, it turns out that 10 million trees that are sufficient for 1,000 hectares should be planted annually. So even if the only thing that has been devastated were to go to the forest, at the promised pace, it would take 100 years, and the Croatian forests continue to be cut down. The UN Food and Agriculture Organisation's report on global forest resources for 2020 states that Croatia lost as much as 23,000 hectares in human hands from 1990 to 2020. That's what they're called. the forest-based forest, or even a quarter of the area that has been under the forest since 1990 under the term “planted forest”, thus planted planned forest. In 1990, the forest covered as many as 92 thousand hectares. Last year she was only 69,000 acres. At the same time, which is rather strange, the area was increased under the forest that was renovated naturally, so under a single forest with a total of 1,758,000 hectares in 1990, we fell to 1,871,000 hectares in 2020, so for the whole 100,000 hectares. In which the secret of this success is that at the same time we are one of the countries with the most forest planned for the cutting of the world and the country that lost a quarter of its managed areas under the trees by 1990, but also the land in which the area under the forest is increased. The cattlemen will give you an interesting answer to this question. The problem is in the legal regulation under which, according to the cattle associations, the regulations of the lower order, so the rules of law regulate many issues differently than those laid down by the laws. In other words, this is about the real chaos in which the Regulation on the regulation of forests is low-growing, garrison, maquis and chicares even the grass in vegetation is actually the initial degradation form of forests or forests in formation. It is said that those in the cattle associations themselves are contrary to the Law on Agricultural Land on which such land is considered to be agricultural land, but Croatian forests act according to their rules and throw out cattlemen who need to produce food from the game by treating areas as pasture, while at the same time reducing areas for pasture, while at the same time being wolves, so everyone who works with woodwork is full, and all the trees are still numbered, as they claim. In communication with citizens, I learn that Croatian forests place a large number of hectares of private agricultural land on forest-economic grounds without their knowledge and without informing the owners of the land itself because the mandatory Croatian forest only comes down to, obligations of Croatian forests, forgive me, it comes down to the mere placing of notice on the advertising board. At the same time, these surfaces can't, if they want to, change to forest surfaces because, of course, it depends on catastra procedures, and these procedures are much longer and much more complicated. There are also farmers who have moved from the submission of requests from the Rural Development Programme to the approval of projects with the will of the Croatian forests of the agricultural area to a forest-economic base and thus have threatened the implementation of the projects themselves. In the world and at EU level for economic and ecological periods, the reason continues to improve production and spread of biofuels. Due to a limited area of biomass production, biofuels could only request fossil fuels in one part. According to a European-level warrant, by 2030 with the development of other renewable energy sources, biofuels would replace oil in Croatia with 25%, which is an extremely serious topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71717	The first to appear on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club is a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71718	Dear colleagues and colleagues. While the prime minister stands for his ego with childish arguments with opposition, the reconstruction he is in charge of under command stands and does not move from a dead end. Isn't it a shame that we still don't have a systematic way of solving the restoration in the earthquake of the victims' homes, and we've got so much money to solve the consequences, which the prime minister has been boasting in his own time? So far, we have 11 solutions for complete recovery, since the earthquake in Bani has been almost a year, more precisely in two weeks it will be exactly one year. It has been a year and 9 months since the earthquake in Zagreb. Out of the total of 5 billion kuna from the Solidarity Fund, only 50 million were spent. The deadline expires in six months, and now the loss of more than a billion kunas due to misplanning. How much the prime minister and HDZ hold to the intelligence of Croatian citizens is also constantly saying that the reconstruction is about to begin and that, of course, opposition tells fairy tales. Unfortunately, Plekovic and his ministers are increasingly acting as bank characters lost in the translation of incompetence and clientelism. People in Banja and Zagreb have become victims of HDZ identity with the state, forgotten and left behind by a tax-paying state. People freeze in containers, they have no basic living conditions. He's gonna spend another winter all alone, and what's the state doing? She waited and justified herself using the tragedy of people to collect points before the election. I am not sure whether the government and HDZ may have a strategy to make it more difficult with the renovation for a while to make it difficult for the type houses and for a comprehensive reconstruction to be timed for the next parliamentary elections. I would not be surprised at that at all, however, until the election is another 3.5 years and the story should be kept warm. So we learned that the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Planning plans to spend 2 100 000 kuna on promotion services and visibility of the reconstruction project. This is the obligation, since all projects financed from EU funds must have visibility and be actively informed to the public, thus obtaining 500 pens and writing blocks, 250 canvas bags, 200 USBs, an umbrella with a print and 100 folded raincoats. Luckily, there won't be any software. The great democracies who love to drill into their chests did not think about the visibility of the restoration, and this is the irony in itself, it was more useful to use this money for direct help to people in Bania. For example, if the visibility of the renovation was not more visible, representatives of the country for children in Banja obtained pillows, school supplies, convenient gifts for Christmas. Of course, with the EU's mandatory logo, so that these children can feel the most beautiful time of the year at least this time. To be a top promotion of reconstruction, the state would show how it really cares about its citizens. At least symbolically. When they're already unable to rebuild their houses within a reasonable time. This government simply does not have the capacity to do basic work, make life easier for citizens and help them in everyday life. As corruption affairs erupted by Plenkovic's dearest confidants, the weekly basis shows that Plenkovic's ministers who manipulated Croatian citizens' money as if it were their inheritance. This is the Croatia we live in today. At the same time, Plenkovic and his fairy-tale associates tell us beautiful stories about a phenomenal place to live. Yes, Croatia has become El Dorado for the Hadesians, for their pockets and bank accounts, for barbecues, vineyards, software, and people in Bania are sneezing containers. Plenkovic turned Croatia into his pledge for a position in European institutions. Sanader did it on his own, but justice caught up. We'll see if the European Public Prosecutor's Office can catch up with another minister from Plenkovic's government, what we know, certainly the DORH won't. At the rebuilding of Bania, this government passes or falls on a test of ability. Judging from what we've seen so far, instead of rebuilding, we'll get an abandoned Bania that won't be helped by any more promotions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71761	Following is the statement on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, the respected MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u71762	Good afternoon, everyone. I spent this weekend with workers and workers in Sparta, after our activists, members of the Workers' Front, threatened to share flyers in the Sparse that they would call themselves police. So then we stepped up our activities by sharing flyers on which we are calling on workers and workers to report to our free labor center, where they can get free advice about significant violations of labour rights in that trading chain that is not naturally isolated. I welcome the worker who told me she's going to retire and that she only hopes to survive with that pension because the salary already fails to survive. Everyone who keeps telling us there are no workers, greetings to the president of the state. I'm going to read a letter from a woman in Spara, and we're going to receive these letters, and then we're going to take tens of them a week. Which we got on, in response to the announcement of an employee's experience in Sparta, so we got a call from a worker. Hello, I invite the same colleagues and colleagues when they are now in this, and shopping mania, to visit shopping malls to talk to the cashiers, if that is allowed by their employers who insist that such a conversation is not, and should not be taken away. So, as I read it, it means working letter, as you assume overtime is not paid, the more forbidden it is to stay overtime. A job you haven't done can't just leave another shift because they have their own assignments, so it's understood that you'll stay even though you know it won't be paid. The distance between your two shifts is little where it's 12 o'clock so very often happens to be today, you work until 9:00, while you put everything behind you, while the cashiers do what they need, you go, say, 23-30, you travel home, and let's say half an hour, it's 10:00. And you get up at 4:00 because your bus leaves at 4:30. Of course I'd like to meet a person who goes straight to bed. Now I'm going to try to give you a day's work in my department of Delicates and Bakery. You come in at half past six. Your hours are not until 6:00. As you prepare everything you need to bake by 7:00, and for each group of pastries and bread you need cca. 25 minutes. While the oven is steaming, bread and pastries come to you from outside bakeries. Besides you have to agree, there's also a cutting of salami and cheese waiting for you. All of this must be ready when the shop opens at 7:00 and customers start entering. Your shift runs into a constant balance between the counter and the fridge. If you're lucky at 11:00, you'll go to that famous nerd that, on average, lasts 7-10 minutes and if you're lucky. You don't even get to eat many times, they're calling you back. Leader, if he's worthy of getting out of the office, he's always got some extra job for you, even though he knows sometimes you don't have time to go to the bathroom. When a regional leader comes for a tour, it's a special day. Everybody's nervous, it's running around the store, that day at the shrub you can forget. He doesn't care if you eat or not. Their famous line – if you don't like it, go to Plodine or Kaufland to work, it's become a mantra. As far as progress is concerned, if they offer education, very few people within the company are progressing, because stimulation has been introduced because stimulation has been introduced for those who bring in a deputy or a leader from a competing firm. Remember those overtimes from the beginning? Well, those 12 million kuna overtimes have been erased in the system. I personally know people who had 800 overtimes at year level for which they were neither paid nor given days off. I personally recommend to anyone who is a little, who has self-respect, that he flees Spara's head no matter what, because in Sparta he's really steaming, but most of all on the workers. Nice greeting from one, I hope soon, ex-worker. This is a letter from Spara, but we received similar letters from Lidl, from Kaufland, from DM, from Konzum, from almost every trade chain you can remember.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72167	The following is the Final Proposal for the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 211, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The HDZ Representatives' Club has proposed that the Assembly draw the following conclusion on the Proposal for a Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, with the Final Proposal for Law P.Z. No. 211, a debate was held in the first reading. All comments, proposals, opinions from the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for a law. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. I'm sorry, this conclusion. Dear Secretary of State Joseph Bilaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72168	The Honorable Vice President has reached a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72169	Okay. So the law goes to another reading. Well... Here you go, Mr. Bauk. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72170	Mr. Vice President, first of all, did my club take a break this morning, asking for a break? If not, on behalf of the SDP Club, I am looking for a break because of the Copernicus facility in the case of the Law on Linen, Marine and so on. Namely, I was delighted that the HDZ Club proposed an amendment that is the same, or sorry, that Agent Ante Sanader proposed an amendment that was identical to my proposal for a conclusion on the implementation of the 2019 Law on Islands, it seems to me that he even praised the amendment on Facebook, and in, because of my personal sympathies to the Vice-President of the Parliament, I did not refer to the fact that he plagiarized the amendment which was, in fact, a proposal from our mayor's public debate and my proposal for a debate on the report on the implementation of the Island Act. Looking forward to that, and referring to free transport, at least to firefighters and fire trucks on the islands will be like a Christmas present. And now the HDZ Club is devising the amendment of counterpart Ante Sanader, sending the law to another reading. And the government accepts it. If at least the secretary of state had said a sentence which is why, which is why, because I think we support that law, now we're going to have to praise you twice, it's not exactly something that's too pleasant for us. Mr. Sanader will have to submit the amendment twice, I will remind you twice that we proposed it in 2019. And I would really like an explanation why, what is the problem with that law, that it must be in two readings? We voted for an emergency procedure, supported the law, and now in two readings. You're not doing this to spite us because we said we'd uphold the law? So, Mr. Secretary of State, I know you don't have any more business opportunities right now, but we'd like to hear one or two more sentences about why the law has to go into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72171	Apparently because of twice on Facebook. All right, let's move on. Here's to the announcement now, let's go with the amendments. The first is the Final Proposal of the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 212, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State, Joseph Bilaver, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72217	What law, Vice President? [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72218	I said, the Law on sailing and the ports of internal waters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72219	Thank you, Vice President. The amendment and any other amendments to the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72220	Okay. . All right, let's move on. Next, the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act, emergency procedure, first and second readings, P.Z. No. 213, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic, representative of Anka Mrak Taritash, Green-left bloc advocates' club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the Committee on Law and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the remaining amendments submitted, Secretary of State Joseph Bilaver. Here's a proposal for an amendment to the respected representative, Cynthia Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72320	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. However, the explanation is: The proposed provisions of Art. 39. is prescribed to limit the payment of fees for the financing of construction and maintenance of the public road at the expense of Croatian highways d.o.o. and Croatian roads d.o.o. not more than the amount provided for these purposes in the national budget for each financial year. The limitation of the resources in question is necessary because of the financial, fiscal consolidation and financing of the expenditure side of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72321	There's no counsel here, then there's no debate. The next amendment is the MP for the respected Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72322	Thank you. Amendments are also not accepted. As explained in the amendment, amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act are under way, which regulates all issues related to the transport of traffic goods and devices which have not been regulated by the Road Safety Act so far. Those amendments and additions to the law will, in addition, prescribe transport areas where those funds can be moved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72323	The MPs are gone, the next amendment is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72324	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Legal status of all public roads, highways, state roads, county roads and local roads is the same according to the Roads Act. They are public good in general use owned by the Republic of Croatia. Based on the Law on Roads, county and local roads are run by county road administrations, which are the founders of the county. Following this, according to the Roads Act, the Law on Units of Regional Self-Government has all the rights in relation to the ZUC manager, but they do not have the rights which the owner of the Republic of Croatia has in relation to public well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72325	Yes, the explanation is that you've been having a hard time reading it, too. Here we are staying with the amendment simply because local and regional self-government as owner and founder of county and local roads, are you bored?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72327	I'm asking Mr. Secretary is he bored? Therefore, it must be possible to prescribe a level of compensation for road users and service rights holders, or the right to build on roads which they are the founders of. Therefore, limiting the amount of compensation by the government's decision is an disproportionate limitation of local and regional self-government in making decisions on the management of its assets and therefore we will remain with this amendment and we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u72328	All right. Declaration on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Budget Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z.E. 227. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of HSLS and the People's Party of Reformists, the Committee of Legislatives, the SDP's Club of Representatives, the Social Democrats' Club, the Green-left bloc's representatives, the representative Mario Mandarić and the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Your Honor, Secretary of State, go ahead. Amendment 1, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80934	Regarding the amendments to the Committee on Law, we accept all amendments to the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80935	So that's all 10 amendments to the Legislative Committee have been accepted. Amendment number 11. Social Democrats' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80936	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted since in certain cases there may be a risk of achieving or collecting dedicated revenue to the level of the plan and there may be an inability to fulfil obligations entirely from the same which may lead to an increase in the lack of general government budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80937	Here you are, dear representative of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80938	Thank you very much. Well, dear Secretary of State, we don't accept such an explanation. This amendment should have improved this bill. We are absolutely asking for a vote and the outcome of the vote will depend on our support or not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80939	Amendment number 12. Legislative Committee And yes, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 to 23. 24th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. [[Intruder: All amendments to the Committees have been accepted.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80940	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. The subject amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives shall be accepted in such a way as to read it. This Regulation shall enter into The final proposal of the Budget Act shall be added to the new paragraph in such a way as to read it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80941	... Green-left block. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80942	Thank you. We accept, so we won't ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80943	Okay. 25th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80944	The amendment is not accepted. That provision was adopted through the adoption of the previous amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80946	Thank you. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80947	Okay. 26th Amendment of Representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80948	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. Therefore, the amendment in question shall be accepted in such a way as to read it in Article 1(1). 127. The final proposal of the Budget Act shall be amended and amended as follows: ‘The budgetary users of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government and other institutions whose founders or co-founders are one or more units of local and regional (regional) self-government may be in charge only in the long term for the purposes set out in Article. Article 120(1) of this Act either refinance or reprogramme the rest of the debt on the basis of the loan or loan, with the consent of the founder in accordance with the founding act. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. point 65 is amended as follows: ‘If the budgetary users of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other institutions whose founders or co-founders are one or more units of local and regional (regional) self-government in the long term are in charge, refinance or reprogramme the rest of the debt on the basis of a loan or loan without the consent of the founder in accordance with the founding act or in the long-term in charge of other purposes other than those set out in Article. Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 as regards the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: ‘If extra-accounted users of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other legal persons owned or co-owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government are in debt or re-programmed or re-programmed the rest of the debt on the basis of loans or loans without the consent of the majority owner or without the consent of the finance minister’.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80949	Representative Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Here I agree with the amendment in changed form, given that the intensity of the amendment is also fulfilled in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80951	Okay. Five amendments to the Legislative Committee that have been adopted. Amendment 32. HSLS and Reformers' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80952	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80953	Okay. ... Amendment 33. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80954	The amendment is not accepted. Since the provisions on transparency and the publication of information are attributed to the draft law in Article. It refers to units of local and regional (regional) self-government and their budgetary and extra-financial users, as well as to budgetary and extra-financial beneficiaries of the state budget, in addition to Article 10. 144. It is not necessary to add the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, amendments to Art. In the part of the regulation of the provisions on information which is necessary to be published, the 144th part is directed through the adoption of the amendments of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers to Art. 144.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80955	... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80956	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course we're asking for an amendment to the vote, and above all I ask that you do not deceive the public because you have not accepted a single item, not a single word of our amendment by accepting the HSLS amendment, do not deceive the public, and do not substitute false transparency in cooperation with Mr. transparent Dario Hrebak. That's for starters. We have submitted this amendment in the best faith that Croatia can be completely transparent in order for each of its citizens to get clear information on where his money is going. That is why we asked to be introduced into the amendment that the obligation to submit this information is without doubt and the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the one that has the resources of the state budget. We also asked that the content of this information must be the amount of each individual payment from the budget, the payer's data, the type of expenditure or expenditure data, the recipient's data other than classified information, the date of registration of the payment, the purpose or description of the payment, within 90 days of the start of expenditure or expenditure. We are aware that the ruling majority will vote against this amendment, and will vote against because its adoption would be a step forward for Croatia, but a step back right for them for the ruling one. It says enough how much they hold to Croatia, they themselves are enough to hide the corrupt action they are absolute champions and therefore ask to be about the amendment of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80957	Amendment 34. Legislative Committee adopted. Amendment 35. HSLS and Reformers' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80958	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80959	Okay. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 36 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80960	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the refusal of amendment 33 to Article 33, The 144th cannot accept this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80961	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80962	Of course we're asking to vote on this amendment as well. In fact, we asked this amendment to increase the penalty for those who fail to publish clear and unequivocal information on the spending of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You in the law, or in the bill of law, provided for a fine of 10,000 to 50,000 kuna, we ask that it be from 20,000 to 100,000 kuna. In view of the practice that individual officials are harassing the budgets, which to the state, which to regional, which to local budgets, in fact, benefit their own private or benefit, so I do not know the same-minded, relatives, friends, acquaintances, party colleagues, future party colleagues, etc., while receiving a very nice fee for their work or dislike, they have plenty of resources to pay when they are wrong about this law, when citizens are deprived of information where their money is spent and they can certainly pay out of their own pockets and should pay a far greater penalty than we have anticipated and amended. That's why we're asking for this amendment to be voted on as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80963	Amendment 37. Legislative Committee adopted. Amendment 38. HSLS and Reformers' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80964	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80965	Okay, part of the station. Amendment 39. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80966	The amendment is not accepted since Amendment 33 to Article 144 cannot be adopted either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80967	Of course you don't accept this amendment either because you accepted the so-called HSLS amendment in which HSLS Dario Hrebak more transparently allowed the content of transparency to be brought by one man. Minister of the HDZ Orders. About transparency and the intention of HDZ to fight corruption, and for transparency we have an opportunity to see every day. Dario Hrebak agrees to compromise. He declared it to be the one to deliver transparency to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. He's not here today. He's not even here to boast about the amendment he gave you. And he's not here because he's ashamed. Shame on him for stopping fighting for transparency as soon as he entered the ruling majority. In view of the simple lack of need, the Minister's guidance, and since the content and deadlines of the publication of information on the spending of public funds is in fact necessary by law, rather than by giving at the will of one HDZ or one HDZ minister, we ask that this provision is not even dependent on the political will of the HDZ, but rather on the legal obligation of all those who have the public money, money from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We're asking for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80968	40th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80969	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80970	It's becoming an integral part. 41st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80971	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80972	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80973	I once again use the opportunity to point out that we are loathing the possibility that one person, the minister, will determine what the content of the information will be published and, in order to inform the public, to inform citizens where the money from their pockets has been spent. One minister, HDZ's minister, decides what is to be published, and we have heard what is both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Administration's intention. What will this transparency look like? It will look like the State Treasury, where let's say that some company has provided intellectual services from the part of the health care budget, and we don't know exactly what it refers to, what intellectual services. The amending Budget Law also decided to reduce the transparency of spending money from the budget in such a way as to further diversify the information that you are planning a budget to have a higher spending platform for these funds, and everything under the exception shows greater flexibility to implement the budget. That advice must have been given to you by Minister Grief. We absolutely refuse that the content of information on the spending of public funds is determined by Minister Maric himself, we ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80974	Amendment 42 of the Legislative Committee adopted. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80975	Mr. President, I don't think there are any business circumstances for the amendment that counterpart Ahmetovic explained. In his refusal, the government's representative said the amendment was rejected with the same reasoning as the previous one, and in the light of the previous amendment, he said the amendment was accepted. In that sense, if the amendments are the same as the amendments, then the amendment of counterpart Ahmetovic, or the SDP Club, is accepted and there is no need to vote in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80976	Well, you haven't called on any of the Rules of Procedures, so I'm giving you a heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80977	Well, I was going to help you, so I guess the Secretary of State meant the previous SDP amendment, so let's make it more specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80978	Amendment 40, 40, Amendment 43. HSLS and Reformers' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80979	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80980	Amendment 44. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80981	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous SDP amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80982	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80983	Dear Secretary of State, with all this shame which today is causing, and not only the HDZ, HDZ's part of the ruling majority but above all HSLS, the HSLS's contribution to the ruling majority where HSLS Dario Hrebak as the main promoter of transparency in Croats has agreed to bow his head, of course, to keep the chair in the ruling majority, I will not calculate with anything more difficult and give the opportunity for it to be fully transparent, which I have also advocated in Bjelovar, I hope, consistently, to end up in the openness of the budget, which he knows very well that is not the same as transparency. Fortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live in Omislje, Zlatar, Trogir, Cres, Rijeka, Pregradi, Konjscini, Vrbovac, Varazdin, Veli Luka, Lokva, Marushevac, Korčula, Kastava, Babina Greda, Milna, Tinjan, Vizinadi, Čavla, Brdovac, Jaski, Klanjac, total transparency under the direction of SDP mayors is not questionable. These citizens will know where each of their kunas, the SDP mayors and the commissioners do not need the false transparency of Dari Hrebaka, do not need the trade of HSLS and HDZ and do not need the personal political direction of Minister Maric. That's why we're asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u80984	Thank you very much. We are done with the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81573	A statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 230, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, the SDP Representatives Club, the Representatives of the Centre and GLAS Club, the representative of Katarina Peovic. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. Please welcome the representative of State Secretary Tomislav Dulibic, a statement on the amendments. First amendment called Brumnic No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81574	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The amendment is not accepted. Considering that. 2. The legislative proposal refers to the implementation of all public protection measures against infectious diseases prescribed by this law, not only certain security measures, including the obligation of individual entities to finance measures under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81575	Here you are called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81576	Your Honor. I do not agree with your argument, the amendment has been to allow all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to exercise their fundamental rights in accordance with what the minister and prime minister have recently declared. He first declared that there would be no covid certificate means that there would be no problem with this, today by introducing a covid certificate would practically force people to do something or to pay huge financial damage to their fundamental rights. I urge you to reconsider this amendment, I think it is on the trail of what is protecting, let's say Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81577	The 2nd amendment is the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81578	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Since it's an art. 47th of the current law stipulated that special security measures could be ordered by the Minister of Health on a proposal from HZZZ or when an outbreak of infectious disease or the risk of an outbreak of infectious disease against which the World Health Organization has declared a pandemic, the security measures may, by means of a decision, be taken in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Civil Protection of the Republic of Croatia, be taken under the direct supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By adopting this legislative proposal, HS introduces a new security measure supplementing the Article. Article 47(2), and the proposed amendment is contrary to the whole article. 47th of the current law, because all security measures are taken in order to protect the lives and health of people by decision of the Minister of Health or the Civil Protection Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81579	... You don't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 3rd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81580	The amendment is not accepted. Since the purpose of the proposed infringement provision is to deter responsible persons from not ensuring the implementation of a special security measure, rather than the individual punishment of natural persons. We consider that that provision is appropriate and appropriate in view of the objective of which it intends to achieve or target criminal sanctions against the person most responsible for the legality of work and, in this case, to ensure the implementation of the security measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81581	Here you go, Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81582	Thank you. With our proposal for an amendment, we want to correct a mistake in which a fine is prescribed only for a responsible person in a public body, and the applicant has failed to prescribe penalties for legal persons in which safe measures are not provided. Likewise, in the event of a wider regulation of the obligation, so-called Covid confirmation in areas such as shopping centres, catering facilities, etc. the responsibility of other legal and natural persons is excluded, thus ensuring that the amendment does not require a debate on a new amendment to the law. To simplify, there is no scientific evidence or any, not even this unspeakable on Facebook that the virus spreads better in state bodies than in tourist facilities, shopping centres, private facilities, companies, etc., by prescribing covid certificates only for public access to public services, it does not prevent the spread of the virus in private institutions. Now, this is for private institutions actually for the first time in history introduced self-government. In the past we have had self-government in state and social companies and social policy organizations, and now for the first time we have it in private in entrepreneurial waters. I think not accepting this amendment is just one more proof that this is about so-called. Oducative epidemiology, we'll prescribe something for state and public institutions to turn out to be doing something, and we won't prescribe anything for these privates because we don't have the money to give them any subsidies or damages if it comes to them. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81583	4th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81584	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81585	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81586	Thank you. We insist on voting on this amendment. So, you need to introduce and punish legal persons as well as punish those responsible, I don't know what you don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81587	5th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81588	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81589	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81590	Here's what's already been said, just to say hello, I didn't see this angle that my colleague Bauak gave these amendments that are all more or less identical and I have to say that I like now that they've rejected this amendment because that means introducing self-management into private spaces if I get it right. But what we wanted to say was just said so I will also ask to be on this amendment vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81591	6th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81592	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Since an ex post assessment of the effects of this law still takes time, it is at least a year. That provision shall be fully in accordance with Article 17. The law on the assessment of the effects of the rules under which the compensation for the impact assessment of the rules is to be implemented no later than 2 years from the entry into force of the regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81593	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81594	Given the fact that the HDZ parliamentary majority takes the right through headquarters, I think it is necessary to properly revise the impact of these regulations and long before the principled deadlines are passed. So it's much more appropriate here to discuss anything that changes to the law are brought back after a 6-month period, not a year period. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81595	The SDP representative club proposes a meeting to draw conclusions. Based on Article 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia under the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases, P.Z. The number 230 needs to be brought 2/3 of all MPs. And the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club proposes a meeting to reach a conclusion that reads. The longevity of the Covida-19 pandemic as well as its deep health, economic, social and legal consequences correspond to the definition of the state of emergency caused by natural disasters in the manner defined in Article 17. The Constitution of the For this reason, decisions, including legislative provisions which seriously restrict human rights and freedoms guaranteed by constitutional law, which are taken for the purpose of the implementation of epidemiological and other measures to combat the Covida-19 pandemic shall be adopted 2/3 of the majority as defined in Article 17. The Constitution. I would like to ask the Proposer's representative to take note of the proposed conclusions, Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81596	Thank you very much, Vice President. The proposed conclusions are not accepted as the constitutional basis for the adoption of amendments and additions to this law is contained in Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which the provisions of freedom and rights can only be limited by law in order to protect the freedom and rights of other people and legal order, public morality and health. Any restriction on freedom or right must be proportionate to the natural need for a restriction in each case. In accordance with Article 82 of the Financial The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, unless the constitutionally defined Croatian Parliament decides by majority vote, if most MPs are present at the session. And according to Article 83. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia laws governing the rights of national minorities of Croatian law, the Croatian Parliament brings 2/3 of the majority of the votes of all MPs in the light of the provisions of Articles 16, 82 and 83. The Constitution of the The constitutional basis for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law is correctly stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81597	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81598	Mr. Vice President, first one formal question point is called the amendment statement, and this is the conclusion. Is there any reason why we should vote on this at the plenary session, given that it is not addressed to the government but to the President of Parliament, and in the sense of the implementation of Article 253(10)? Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament... Yes, thank you. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Then we'll explain tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81599	If professional services say they can, then they can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81600	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81601	Okay, thank you, Secretary of State. Is it the same for you? Are you from the green blue same, green-left block, you say the same thing or do you want it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81602	We're joining Mr. Bauk's request.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81603	Okay, it's friendly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81604	Well, that's what you best know about being friends with HDZ, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81605	I don't know, but obviously you do. Following is a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on adult education, second reading, P.Z. Number 168. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MPs Marija Jelkovac, MP Marija Selak Rasdic and Green-left bloc advocates' club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted amendments to the Committee on Legislatives and Representatives, Maria Jelkovac, and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the remaining amendments. Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak. Amendment by the representative of Marija Selak Rasudić, number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81926	Thank you very much, Vice President. Amendment 1 is not accepted. In this respect, Article 20(1) of the final draft of the law stipulates that the Andragogian leaders have the right and obligation to carry out continuous training and training in the area of Andragogic competences. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81928	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. That's what it's about. I asked to change item 5. Article 7 which reads as follows. Only a person with the necessary expertise in the area of andragogy may perform the activities of the Andragogic Head. What's the problem? In the area of adult de facto education, the government is introduced, i.e. a parameter is introduced, i.e. persons who do not have formal andragogical competences. Article 7(5) of the Law defines who may be the Andragogian leader. It is sufficient to complete a graduate university study or an integrated undergraduate and graduate studies or a specialist professional study plus 4 years of working experience in adult education institutions. The law does not prescribe Andragogic competences. Therefore, all profiles of professions, economists, lawyers, politologists and others can work in adult education despite the fact that there is andragogy as a separate science dealing with the legality of work for adults and what is different from, for example, adults. working with children for which professional qualifications are also required. And that's common to us, that's from pedagogy. The quality of work of the institution and the implementation of the programme rests first and on professionally trained from andragogy in this respect. This should be an integral part of the quality assurance system in adult education. It is no good that the new law does not prescribe the obligation of formal Andragogic knowledge. And what's most important is impossible in any other profession. Why adult education denies the available and formally acquired competences remains a question that you will have to answer in the future. And what we can conclude from that is that in practice it is not about quality adult education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81929	Are you asking for a vote? Okay, [[Thank you very much, I think.../]] [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] [[- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Okay. [[I'm looking for the president.]] The following amendment to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81930	Thank you very much. It is also not accepted because the formal education programmes set out in Article 17 of the final draft law are programmes based on a positive expert opinion of the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults and Decision of the Ministry of Science and Education as prescribed in Article 8. The informal education programmes referred to in Article 17 shall be based on a link with the standard of interest or the set of competences and the standard of qualifications or the set of learning outcomes from the register of HKOs and shall have the consent of the Ministry of Labour. If it were to be prescribed that informal programmes must also come up with a solution from the Ministry of Science and Education, then these programmes would no longer be informal but formal, and through this law there is an intensity to encourage the implementation of quality and relevant informal programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81931	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81932	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that the above-mentioned amendment be voted on. What's the problem? Article 17 of the Law introduces vouchers. This will be for programmes implemented to acquire the competences necessary for work, and the criteria will be based on an assessment of the state of the labour market, and paragraph 5 of that article will be evaluated on the basis of the evaluation criteria in accordance with the rules governing the labour market or other specific regulation. Therefore, not as other formal and informal programmes, which will be based on the Law on adult education, subject to professional valorisation, and following the expert opinion of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, will have to seek a solution from the Ministry of Science and Education to implement the programme. These programmes for vouchers will not go such a way that the law prescribes for all other formal adult education programmes. The programmes for vouchers will not be subject to such a procedure, nor will they receive the expert opinion of the competent agency, nor will the solution or approval of the programme ministry be subject to some other rules governing the labour market and is therefore proposed to amend this amendment. If we really want to deal with adult education and if we want to regulate it in a quality and systematic way, and we all agree that it is one of the key elements of our education policy that has been completely neglected in the previous period, then we cannot move the criteria that we have built in all other professions and at all other educational levels and create here a formal legal chaos. So that's why I can't accept this amendment either, and I'm going to ask it to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81933	The 3rd amendment is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81934	Thank you very much. It's unacceptable. Article 30(1) of the final draft law defines that the State budget of the Republic of Croatia provides funds for the implementation of the basic education programme of adults and training for simpler jobs in the professions of which the minister brings each year. As regards the implementation of the other programmes, Article 30(2) defines that financial resources for their implementation can be provided in the national budget, the budgets of the units of local and regional and regional self-government by employers or directly from the participants and accessees and from other sources. In accordance with paragraph 2, the acquisition of the basic skills of persons who have graduated from primary school is foreseen by the European Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81935	Thank you, Secretary of State. Follow the pleas, and I apologize for the obvious, please. Here's your sign. [[Intruder: I can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u81936	Thank you. Well, yeah, I think it's still important to get into the law and a little more detailed emphasis on that group. So we're talking about how they're supposed to be, we're looking at funding for programs for people who don't have a primary school and they're 15 years old, but we don't think it's clear that there are people who have finished primary school but they don't have enough skills for readers, mathematical, digital what you're sure you're going to agree to is necessary and to get out of the labour market, it's necessary for daily communication, and we need to continue education and for further education and for further education, and it seems to us, we're sure that if we don't include them in that way, that very, very sensitive group will remain on the side of society, and that's why we're staying with this amendment and we're going to ask for a vote because we think it's important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82320	We are now moving to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, MP Arsen Bauk, representative Dalia Oreshković, the Green-left bloc representative club, representative Katarina Peović, and a review of the amendments was sent to you by electronic means. Mr. Secretary of State Josip Salapic from the Ministry of Justice and the Administration, please, to show that amendments have been submitted. Mr. Bauk's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82321	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Although this could be a hit of the year, we cannot accept this amendment. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is not an adequate proposal in view of the content of the law. We also note that the new law greatly extends the Commission's competence and strengthens its powers and status. We don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82322	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82323	I wanted help, and you wanted help. I think I'd agree to be a hit of the year, but next year's hit will be the Committee of Conflict of Interest when they're slapped by a series of new property cards, a couple thousand new officials on them five. So everyone will have a chance to process about 1200 property cards, which, with about 250 working days, is a sign that each will have to work five days and do nothing else, five days is not easy to check. Secondly, taking away this one public moral authority to so call the commission to declare here and there that a mild pedagogical discipline to act on officials is also a form of preventing the commission from working. That's why I thought it would be more appropriate to call the law, the law on preventing a commission to prevent conflicts of interest. However, if the Government does not accept this well-intentioned criticism and the proposal I will not be stubborn and insist on voting, I would not want my colleagues in the Assembly who have on the right hand side of the HDZ who know that I am right now to force them to vote against my amendment, and I would not want my colleagues in the opposition, I would not want them to take my hit of the year yet it is I will take the copyright to do so. In that sense, knowing both you and I were right, this is enough for me to say that it's a year's hit and I'm not asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82324	So you're withdrawing the amendment in other words? Okay. SDP Representatives' Club 2nd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82325	The amendment is not accepted. The prevention of corruption covers a wider range of legislative and other measures aimed at preventing corruption, which are not contained under this law, such as the protection of whistle-scrapers' applicants. We also note that preventing conflicts of interest is, in any case, one of the cornerstones of the prevention of corruption, and therefore this does not need to be highlighted in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82326	Who appears on behalf of the SDP, Mr. Bauk?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82327	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is another amendment whose refusal might be as you passed the hit of the year. So the purpose of this law is to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duty, it says now that you have accepted the amendment of the SDP Club, Art. 2. 1st was the purpose of this law to prevent corruption and prevent conflicts of interest. This sounds nicer to us, this sounds more convincing to us. In one symbolic way, we would actually point out to him the more important objective of this law because the one dealing with the Committee of Conflict of Interest is just the lobby of the DORH. There is one door between the DORH and the Commission of Conflict of Interest, they are metal not easy to open, but there is no crime that is not also conflict of interest. And to quote Mr. Branko Bacic, there's a conflict of interest that's not a crime. So there are preventive actions in the prevention of corruption that perhaps some stray sheep can save to take that step and go through that metal door between the Committee for Conflict of Interest and the DORH. In many or in some oaths made by officials when they enter office, we have a text that reads "God help me," and when HDZ's men enter office, with honorary exceptions, I suggest that after what they say, God help me, then say and so help me DORH. In that sense, it would be a true oath that some of them should take. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82328	3rd Amendment of Representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82329	The amendment is not accepted. Part of the proposal relating to St. 1. under which the name of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest would be changed in the name of the Anti-corruption Office is not acceptable, since more bodies are involved in the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Croatia. For example, the Office of the Advocate General shall be the competent authority for the external reporting and protection of whistle-ritters' notifiers. This commission shall have a certain scope of jurisdiction that and the name specified accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82330	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82331	Thank you. I ask that this amendment be voted upon. Namely, conflict of interest and prevents corruption from being prevented, and because you mentioned part of the competence of other state bodies, it is controversial in relation to the scope of those actions, powers, competences and activities that this body should have. In addition, you have again kept this word “the commission. ” Therefore, the name of the body acting as a permanent, professional and independent state body whose members carry out the work of the work and jurisdiction, in the very nature of the matter, is no longer a commission. So the commission is those bodies that meet ad hoc, whose members primarily perform other tasks, but no, work in the body does not perform as their professional public duty. Therefore, the main purpose of the bodies acting preventively in the field of combating corruption is to detect and prevent the occurrence of corruption in due time, and should then read the name. So not ad hoc body commission and not conflict of interest, but prevention of corruption. By focusing solely on solving conflicts of interest which is always linked exclusively to a particular person, everything else that should be detected in the system should be released in time and prevented. I therefore believe that, starting from the name itself, it is clear that, despite its practice developed by the Commission so far, it has not understood the concept and has not realized the very purpose of the existence and operation of that body. Obviously, in itself, HDZ is enough to have some kind of law to wave at the EU bodies and say, here is the anti-corruption system, and we know it's wrong. Thank you. We ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82332	You already said that. Thank you. 4th Amendment, too, Mrs. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82333	It's unacceptable. The proposal to add to paragraph 2 a new item 3 redefined by the conflict of interest is not acceptable. Namely, the existence of a conflict of interest is defined by art. 2th century 2 which must be read together with art. 5 which, among other things, in St. 1 point. 8 defines a private interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82334	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82335	Yeah. So instead of having 20 derivations about how you're going to interpret something, why don't you write a simple sentence that every official, every politician and every Croatian citizen will understand. Therefore, the conflict of interest is any situation in which there is reasonable doubt that the circumstances of the private life of the obligor or of the person with which it is connected might affect the objectivity of the decisions or procedures that the obligor performs as part of the performance of his or her public duties. So the point is impartiality. As with state lawyers, as with judges and every time a person looks at the situation on the side, he sees that there is a reason for doubting someone's impartiality, this is a situation of conflict of interest that both law and system and competent authorities should address and should prevent. If we say that the purpose of the law is, among other things, the protection of integrity, then it should be said that it is not only the protection of the integrity of a specific official, i.e. an official or a politician. It is about protecting the integrity of the body of the government, so what we say is that it builds or destroys citizens' trust in the system and in the institutions and, unless you simplify the definition so that it is understood by the public, that it is understood by citizens, that it is understood by those to whom this Law applies, I fear that we will achieve nothing. And the reason why you don't want to accept a very simple definition is that you actually blur what the Commission is going to do from now on. It will do unnecessary, unnecessary administrative affairs, and with the very essence that you have even left in the name, so you insist that this body is still called the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest, and the only thing, the only thing that will no longer be able to do from now on, is to define what it is even a conflict of interest. We ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82336	6th Amendment, Mrs. Crescent. Representatives of Katarina. What? This was the fourth, yeah. [[Intruder: Amendment 5.]] You too, Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82337	The amendment is not accepted. In the light of the proposal to add both directors and assistants of the Croatian Social Insurance Office and other obligors to the obligors, and according to the proposal to add a new item 3 to the new general category of obligors, we note that the scope of the obligors to the new law is significantly extended and any further extension should be explained in detail so as not to prevent the Commission from in its work. As far as this proposal is concerned, this law is still in the process, it passed the first reading, and the director of the office that has not yet been voted in the Croatian Parliament as such, "Croatian Social Insurance Institute", can be considered in, when the law enters into force. We're not accepting it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82338	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82339	Thank you. I ask that this amendment be voted upon. Namely, the concept of legal certainty requires the system to know what it's doing. If you know that a certain law is in the process, you say, we're waiting for another reading, so fine, but in that second reading, it's obviously the intensity to form another one of the institutions. So, we have the Pension Insurance Office, the Health Insurance Office, the Employment Service, and now we're going to have the Department of Social Security, and what, when that law comes into force, are you going to ask for amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests? That means one head doesn't know what the other head is doing inside the same government and 2.3 different ministries. So that's not how it works, that's how you mismanage the state, that's not how laws are passed. If you are already adopting a new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which in its essence brings absolutely nothing new, then at least make a good categorization of public functions, the public duties that should be applied to this law, and in addition to this provision there is also the next one that actually defines what the very submission of property cards wants to achieve, who is all by function, by duty, by the authority of that person who should be covered by the jurisdiction of a preventive anti-corruption body. This you are unable to do or are able to identify where this ship sails, where the Republic of Croatia goes in terms of establishing new bodies and defining the obligations of the leaders in those bodies. We also had the situation of the Director of the Environmental Protection Fund, so for a year in the procedure, there was a proposal from an opposition club to get the director of this fund into the provisions of this law and you didn't do it because you don't know, but not just because you don't know, because you don't want to. It's in your interest that the people you're setting, and you think you're controlling them, don't have to succumb to any excessive institutional control. That's actually the point. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82340	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Representative Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82341	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal is not accepted to extend the application of the law to both assistants and assistant assistants in health institutions, to the head of clinics and clinical institutions, to the heads of the institutions and other health institutions which are the founder of the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local regional and regional self-government. We reiterate that the scope of the taxpayers is significantly extended by a new law and any further enlargement should be explained in detail so as not to make it impossible for the commission to work in its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82342	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82343	Thank you. Okay, so the same explanation as in the previous amendment to counterpart Oreskovic, but the point is to ask the question of what is the purpose of extending the taxpayers who fall under this supervision. In the Coronal year, it means the greatest pandemic since the First World War if one should pay attention to something then it's health care, and it's just in health it's shown that the biggest, one of the biggest problems, I'm not going to say the biggest, but one of the big problems is that it's private and public interference so it's actually privately paralysed in public. So we know all the cases where doctors work both in the private and public sectors and use the public sector's infrastructure as well. So here was the goal of adding to the Director, you have added meaning to the directors, but also to the deputy directors and assistant directors, the head of clinics, the head of clinical institutions and the heads of the institutions and other health institutions under this law to prevent it from using the public sector at the same time, public health for private benefit, and that is also what counterpart Andreja Maric warned in her debate. It seems to me that this is where the reflector you put on these obligor officials should have directed that reflector there. So you went wide, so what's important now is health care. I will ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82344	Thank you very much. Seven, ma'am. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82345	The amendment is not accepted. It's a complete change of heart. Four, it's not acceptable. In view of the autonomy of local self-government, it is not possible in this way to limit the regulation of the code of conduct by the representative bodies of the units of local, regional and regional self-government or to impose a commission of a new duty to monitor the quality of the rules. This law provides guidance on what should be contained in the law, each representative body will determine in accordance with its arrangement, organisation and number in which way certain questions will be formulated in the Code. The Commission retains its role in responding to certain non-compliance situations in which conflicts of interest may arise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82346	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82347	Thank you. Therefore, you will in some way introduce a commitment for all units of local and regional self-government to lay down their ethical rules, and you will not give them any guidance on what these ethical rules should contain, nor is it known who will implement these ethical rules and how these rules will be controlled if those rules are implemented in practice. In other words, your imaginary system will be absolutely nothing. In one small municipality, for example, with 10 HDZ councilors, or 10 council members, all of whom the HDZ holds most of who will adopt an ethical code, these HDZs, and then select their 3 members as representatives of some municipal ethical commission, which will, as a result, process their own members. So, a completely pointless, pointless provision in a system like this, as you've imagined it now. And what I suggest, I suggest, I suggest taxing the categories that such rules at the level of units of local and regional self-government should include, for example, banning entry into business relations because we know from practice that when they come to an opportunity, when they sit in their municipal or city or county councils, or the assembly, they make some good legal work with that same city, municipality or county through their respective parliamentary majority. The internal acts of the county, city or municipality are also required here to prescribe that such business relations must neither be formed only with the county, city or municipality but also with the companies and with the institutions that these units have, of course, with the regulation of several exceptions, and the commission is the competent authority to verify the quality of the contents of these internal acts. and grant approval that such acts shall enter into force at all. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82348	Thank you very much. You're looking for a vote, of course, you said. And so did Mrs. Devereaux. Imprisoned, 8 / 8
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82349	The amendment is not accepted. It is not acceptable to replace the words ‘except for state aid in the event of a natural disaster’ with the words ‘any other form of acquisition by the public authority’, since such a significant spread of the definition is not justified and as such would constitute a significant additional administrative burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82350	- Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82351	The worst of all the reasons you can put is that you and the rules on preventing conflicts of interest, and by doing so, you also bind the rules on the prevention of corruption to the administrative capacity of the Commission itself. Well, first of all, we should come up with the rules that we need, and then, in accordance with these rules, define the needs of the supervisory authority and then establish such a system by the personnel, by the number of people, and by the powers that that body has. Therefore, you have even restricted the definition of a business relationship with the capacity of the commission to carry out procedures under its jurisdiction according to its number of people and professional staff. Therefore, a business relationship by definition should be any form of any acquisition of funds from the public authority. And there is no rational, justifiable reason why state support should be an exception to any general rule in the event of natural disasters. It is precisely in these state aids in the event of natural disasters that we have situations where there is one who decides, and it is known who generally decides to share these support in the way it fits, the criteria are tailored in the way it fits, or how it will profit the most within its electoral base. And by moving the ability to control such a business relationship, by moving the possibility of conflicts of interest being established in such a business relationship, we are actually in a situation that we need the law itself and the definitions and ultimately the commission as such. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82352	Thank you. 9th Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82353	The amendment is not accepted. It is not acceptable to add a new paragraph 5 to Article 6 in accordance with paragraph 4 which would specify the decision-making of a breach of the principle of action, taking into account that the Commission is a preventive body carrying out a certain procedure under which judicial control exists and therefore any determination of a breach of a particular obligation implies a very precise and specific obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82354	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82355	Dear Secretary of State Salapic, this is the essence of what Greco was talking about. So now we're passing a new law. If principles have been questionable to you so far, then this is the time to resolve this doubt by introducing a very simple provision that says that the Committee for Decision-Making of Conflict of Interest has the power to make a declarative decision in which, by saying, it determines what action or failure of the obligors, there has been a violation of the principle of action now that I do not read the rest. Therefore, respect for ethical principles of action is the basis for building integrity within the political system and the basis for preserving citizens' trust in public authorities. And this establishment of integrity and ethics is not possible only at some principle level. So ethics must be real, and this implies that in situations that are not ethical, a procedure can be initiated and that a body responsible for determining and discussing such situations can make a concrete decision saying what kind of conduct or failure is not in line with the behaviour that is expected of each official, politician or obligor. And the assessment of what constitutes a violation of some ethical norms is something that is built in law enforcement, in practice. And so far, this practice has been quite built up and it has not only been built through decisions on violations of the principle of action that we have had so far. It was primarily built through the Institute of Opinions, and each year it was the same cases, so the cases in which the commission gave an opinion at the request of the officials were 2-3 times more than any other procedure in the commission's jurisdiction. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82356	Ten. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82357	The amendment is not accepted. That proposal is not acceptable since it is not explained why it is considered that the same is not already covered by the existing provisions of Article 7 where all the prohibited activities of the obligors are listed. We also note that the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums regulates the issue of how political parties are financed, the acquisition and spending of these funds, and the supervision and audits, since this law also contains infringement provisions that are sanctioned because of the legal principle, and I am going to be unable to accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82358	Thank you very much. Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82359	Thank you. We're looking for a vote on the amendment. If we thought this was clearly stated, we probably wouldn't have submitted that amendment. We still believe that it is necessary to clearly separate party, party and public funds. We saw this for example when the president of the HDZ and the entire unilateral, unilateral delegation took the state plane to a party meeting in Helsinki. It's a common-known fact. Then Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic asked him for the documentation he refused to provide. In this particular case, the prime minister, and probably also the president of the HDZ, have asked and wondered why these principles and practices are now no longer sanctioned under the principles of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests and Miracles. And that's why we're asking to vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82360	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82361	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed expression referred to in paragraph 1 is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82362	Thank you. Here I would like to warn all other opposition representatives, but also the expert and other interested parties that this article, which regulates the behaviour of officials in a potential conflict of interest or in a situation where they are seeking the opinion of the commission, is where the principles are feared. So, so far, opinions have been asked when the official was in doubt whether something was ethical or not, and now by this law you say that, by a wave of politicians, because let's be real bonds from this law mostly come to their public functions directly or indirectly through election processes, so from the world of politics. Now they're going to ask the commission for an opinion whether something is in accordance with the law or not. So a privileged category compared to all other citizens who ask questions about their rights and obligations is worth what to them, so read what the law says. Now, we politicians, we don't have to read anymore, we're gonna ask the commission. So this is a hidden way of destroying the system of ethics and integrity and the institution of giving opinions as it has been so far. So far, opinions have been called for when there were doubts about how to resolve a situation in which there may be a conflict of interest or a conflict of interest, or someone will feel that impartiality has compromised the integrity of public duty. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82363	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82364	The amendment is not accepted. Proposal to delete Art. 1. 8. which obliges the obligors not to take into account, for example, that the law does not allow the obligor to be a member of a company, and that the person from that position would withdraw only if he was appointed or elected to another, rather than before. These processes can sometimes be very formal and require a certain amount of time and therefore it is necessary to maintain the provision of Art. 1. 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82365	Thank you. I would like all Croatian public to pay attention to this article, this law, because this is what we talked about this morning means about HRT. This is where lawlessness is passed, so someone may be in conflict of interest, but if he solves his legal private affairs within 60 days it's okay. And one more thing this article shows, this article also shows that the situation with the selection of the director of HRT who was in conflict of interest was against the law because now an article is being introduced that legalizes the situation that someone handed over the paper on which he was standing fairly admitted that he was in conflict of interest, but if he fairly admitted it would now be okay. It wasn't right before. So this law has passed a rule that in itself is suspicious, but in itself that rule proves that what was done with the director of HRT was actually illegal. And we had a similar situation with HERA, there was a new member of the board of directors Alenka Kinderman Lončarević in conflict of interest and she handed over the paper on which it was stated that in conflict of interest, a new member was proposed so her husband was sitting in three supervisory boards of HEP's daughters while according to the Energy Regulatory Act strictly prohibiting members of the board and members of his family from being in the board, the supervisory board or any other body in energy companies. And one more thing that's being asked as a question, I mean the doubt that I've expressed in the debate by many that these relationships will be arranged in the first place. They'll be formally arranged, but if they're actually going to settle, if someone's going to come out of that conflict of interest because I don't know her, here's what we're going to see in the next article, transferred their property to their child or something else. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82366	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82367	The amendment is not accepted. Proposed precision of the order art. 9 on the declaration of conflict of interest to exclude decision-making is not acceptable given that exemption institutes are new and that all possible circumstances in which this provision will apply are not foreseeable. Prescribing obligations to an obligor to act in accordance with those institutes is a significant step in preventing conflicts of interest and the overall fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82368	Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82369	So on these words of yours, I think you're all former members of the commission and present, at least those who really care about their jobs are pulling their hair on their heads. So what are you saying that the institutes of declaration of conflict of interest and exemption from the decision-making process are something new? No, they're not, they're institutes that have been in practice since the first day of work of that body, and that's the essence of ethics and integrity that you obviously know nothing about. And let me say one more thing, this one. 9th should be looked at in parity with Art. 8th So, you said that bonds are due within 60 days of the election day or appointment to align their private relations with the obligations of this law, and you did not foresee the situation of what if a conflict of interest or some circumstance which may affect independence in decision-making occurs during the term of office. What in that case nothing to anyone? When we talk about art. The 9th and that, according to you, is a new institute for declaring conflicts of interest, which you forgot to define is who this conflict of interest is at all declared? Heavens, wives at home for dinner, neighbors to whom? So it should be made clear that it must be the body responsible for determining the infringements of this law, otherwise such a provision makes absolutely no sense. And as far as the exemption is concerned, it is nothing new, so this is what all officials should have done so far, but you have narrowed down the definition that the exemption relates only to business relations and situations concerning former employers who had been in employment in the last two years before the entry into office, as if you described the situation concerning Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Need To spread to all situations and ask for this amendment to be voted upon. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82370	14 Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82371	The amendment is not accepted. It is not acceptable to propose to be in art. 10. add a new chapter 7 which would provide that the bonds' property cards remain on the Commission's website and three years after the end of the duty, given that the deadlines and scope of public publication of the data from the property cards are determined in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82372	Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82373	Yes, we are already really touching the real purpose of submitting property cards here, and there will be talk about this provision and a little later in another series of amendments. In fact, we need to explain to the public what is actually happening. So, we will now file property cards every year, and the last property card to be submitted is the one to be submitted 12 months after the end of the term of office. What you did not clarify in the law is when some of these property cards are deleted from public publication, and practice shows very often that after the past 12 months, a single card can be found strayed in administrative checks that the commission has not yet reached or completed, and then such property card is never found on the Commission's website. And in the meantime, after the 12 months and years since the end of the term of office have passed some new elections and some new appointments and the official is back on the commission radar and then the need to revitalise, or re-enact, old property cards, arises again, but this does not happen in practice. I therefore propose simply to prescribe a deadline within which all property cards are permanently available after the term of office, allowing the public to continue to carry out certain checks and to detect situations of conflict of interest. There may not be a situation of Tomislav Tolusic, for example, or sooner it would be seen that, right after the term of office of the Minister of Agriculture, he obtained funds from the Agriculture Payment Agency over which he had supervisory powers and where he placed the heads of the directors' office. Here, this provision and this amendment serve. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82374	Thank you. Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82375	I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82376	Yeah. The Green - Left Block Representatives Club, 15 / 15
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82377	The amendment is not accepted. As regards the proposal to be in Art. The words “parents” shall be added in sections 2 and 3 and the words “youths” shall be deleted and the words “youths” shall not be accepted in the light of previous comments in the context of the protection of personal data. As regards the proposal that the property card includes data on the re-use of agricultural land into building land, construction land, the same proposal is also not acceptable because it was not elaborated on exactly what information would be about re-use while the land was owned by the debtor or before, data on the difference in value of land would be collected before and after the re-use or would be only necessary to point to the fact of the re-use of land only.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82378	Here you go, Mrs. President. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82379	Thank you. Thank you, yes. It is interesting that nothing is clear to you about this land from agricultural to construction, and the rest of us are clear to all of Croatia that big money has been pounding there overnight, from several euros per square to several hundred euros per square. Okay, so we don't think it's necessary to close our eyes to the fact that a commission can be given to children or parents, as some agricultural land owned by children or parents can be converted overnight into construction and thus earning enormous income for the whole family. I think we all remember very well. The mother of Nadjan Vidosevic, who overnight became the owner of several yachts, houses, villas, a huge company, so it is quite evident that over the children of the adult and parents, property and some possible corrupt activities can be dimmed. The tax administration should control the disproportionateness of property and income, however, as we know, the tax administration does not do this too often, so we believe this is necessary and we remain in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82380	16, ma'am. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82381	The amendment is not accepted. In the light of the provisions of Art. The Commission may forward such information to the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, which will act in accordance with the tax rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82382	Here you go, ma'am. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82383	Great, you just didn't say and what's going to happen then, so the IRS is undercut. And I'll tell you from practice that when we asked the IRS to do something and do it they told us but we don't have any people, no capacity, no time. In other words, what you just said is a mere phrase. What should be written in the law should be the obligation of the Tax Administration to carry out the procedure within a period of 6 months, and to inform the Commission in its findings, and then to publish the data and findings and solutions of the Tax Administration on their websites. It is also important to say that there are cases like Josepha Rimac when the discrepancies did not result from what the property card on one side or land-book data on the other but was inconsistencies with the naked eye in that it was about a politician who dressed expensively, wearing expensive watches, something like Eve Sanader, that was about how it ended. And here it is required in this amendment that the commission is allowed to request a statement in such situations in which the life-style of a single politician's fattens from his finances and his legitimate incomes and assets stemming from the property card, so that at least at a public session we have the opportunity to hear how a certain politician sees it between the ranks of Joseph Rimac, explains his expensive watches and other items of which the property card doesn't actually ask to be entered or recorded in any of his items. So this is what an asset card in its core should actually serve. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82384	17, ma'am. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82385	The amendment is not accepted. As regards the proposal to be in Art. The words “parents” shall be added in sections 2 and 3 and the words “youths” shall be deleted and the words “youths” shall not be accepted in the light of previous comments in the context of the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82386	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82387	Thank you. I'm really not an expert in this area, but protecting personal data really doesn't sound like a convincing excuse and an explanation in situations where, even here, some of our parliamentary representatives have shared their children's apartments of hundreds of squares, they have nothing. They're pretty poor, so in their property cards, they don't even have to write it, but their kids miraculously have three kids, each one has a 100-square apartment, we wonder where they get it. They have nothing. I think a minimum would be to declare such a thing, I really don't see any reason to protect personal data that such information is not given publicly. If, then you can tell everyone that you need to protect personal data, why don't we say that you need to protect personal data in all other situations? Anyway, I'm gonna ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82388	- Mrs. Crescent. Oreshkovic, 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82389	Amendments are not accepted. This is not an acceptable proposal. Namely, it is an obligation in the context of the submission of the property card, not of the prohibited activities of the obligors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82390	- Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82391	Yeah. With this amendment, I want to achieve that against those who do not deliver a particular indication together with the necessary data and evidence can be initiated by the Commission's jurisdiction, and I say very decidently which and what procedure. So, the one who doesn't deliver at the request and the request of the commission, and we've had these situations. Remember the case against, for example, Kolinda Grabar Kitarović and her trip to the United States, remember, for example, the case against Andrej Plenkovic and his trip to Brussels. So whoever does not request any information and documentation, will be subject to the procedure and in Article. Seven points. and, therefore, it is one of the prohibited acts for which the prescribed sanctions can be imposed under the law, and in this case, it concerns some additional information that is necessary for the verification of the property card and for the regulation of such an obligation must not be some imperfect legal norm, therefore it must not happen, as we have seen so far, that the Commission wants to establish and verify, collect evidence, and that the competent institutions, state bodies or officials themselves receive the frigid fig. Your frigid fig is a complete law, but at least establish a single provision. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82392	19th, ma'am. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82393	The amendment is not accepted. This proposal is not acceptable since it does not comply with the tax rules. Tax regulations define assumptions, criteria and other essential circumstances relevant for the implementation of the tax supervision procedure which could result in the determination of eligibility of the scope of the assets in accordance with the data available by the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82394	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82395	Okay. Nothing's legal, nothing's possible. But then, if the IRS is doing it, then it would be logical for the Commission to have the opportunity to refer to the IRS to conduct such an investigation. I agree with those who have said here that this commission should have a preventive function, but that can't be enough, except for the collection of data, it needs to be able to run the process of examining the origin of the property because we see that in a large number of cases it's really a disproportionately large asset in view of their incomes and it should be a task, an important task of this law, and perhaps a law that we've been missing since the 90s, I wonder why, the law on the investigation of the origin of the property, is it? The great, time of a massive robbery, conversion and privatisation did not happen by just eradicating the law on the investigation of the origin of the property. And now that law should be introduced, I agree, it's not this law, but here the commission can be obliged to mean in communicating with the IRS it still does what should be done because it's obvious that these are the problems that we face with these officials who are so magically earning little, and they have a lot. I will ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82396	Thank you. 20, ma'am. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82397	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the above, an extension of the period within which the liability data which has ceased to act as public duty that for the current year, at the proposed 3 years is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82398	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82399	Thank you. So, the complete draft anti-corruption strategy that I sent to HS, and all these amendments come from my experience in practice, so let me now simplify what I wanted to say here. Imagine the situation in which Martina Dalic, e.g. In one 2 years, re-enter some public duty for which the property card will be handed over. So at that point, she's going to hand over the new property card and everything the public can find out about it, it's only going to be what she wrote in that property card. So don't you think that the public has the right to know, and certainly has the right to know and there is a legitimate public interest that in the event that Martina Dalic again becomes a minister or I don't know, perhaps the Director of the Environmental Protection Fund or any other public duty that has huge funds, so shouldn't we remember what Martina Dalic wrote about her property status when she was the economy minister last time? Here, in practice, it happens that these old property cards, which would certainly reveal how someone operated in the meantime, and wherever he was, was because politics set him up there, so that it could be seen and that it could be compared. By moving such an opportunity you actually make the Institute to file property cards completely pointless. I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82400	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82401	The amendment is not accepted. Art. 15th century 6 stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will prescribe a way of dealing with gifts owned by the Republic of Croatia. Next up, Art. 58 It is prescribed that within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a regulation on the gifts received by the bonds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82402	- Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82403	Thank you. So what hasn't the government done yet? Namely, the same provision exists for 10, 15 or more years, and this isn't about the government's regulation because after all, if the story is set up like you've set it up now, what does the Commission want us to do? This is about the obligation of the official, or the obligor, to notify the competent authority of whether or not he has acted in accordance with that Regulation. Because what the commission does at all have to do with receiving illegal gifts if there is not even the first information about where the official was, who he met with, who gave him what or didn't give him a gift of protocol nature and whether he gave the gift of protocol to the one to whom he was to be given under the government's regulation. So, you made any provision of this law so that you could clearly see that you wrote it with a fig in your pocket. So neither the commission has the authority, the possibility, the opportunity to find out something and determine or when it finds out at all about some inappropriate behavior that this law defines to impose an appropriate sanction. This is a very simple sentence which specifies the duties of officials at the moment when they receive a protocol gift and defines that it is precisely the Commission for the decision to decide on a conflict of interest that is to be controlled by the competent authority, but then it must have both the conditions and the opportunity to do so. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82404	22. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82405	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal intends, in any case, to prohibit the bonds from carrying out other work as a regular and permanent public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82406	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82407	Thank you. So the worst thing that exists in our system is a situation in which politicians, under public duty, are paid by taxpayers and other interests in terms of permanent and regular interest, are also receiving additional compensation. So it's a mess in the system, it's unfair, it's unfair. And in practice, it has created a lot of problems in interpretation and implementation. And what is required of this amendment is that it is clearly prescribed that those politicians and those officials who professionally mean pay, act in a duty they conduct cannot work at the same time as any other profession as a regular and permanent job. But they can possibly do something occasionally and temporarily, but only if they are granted special approval for the commission, depending on the circumstances of the case, to determine that there is no conflict of interest. In practice, this has so far been approved, for example, for performing certain skills, for performing the affairs of a court interpreter or something like that. So something that's done once, twice, three times a month, but not as a constant and regular occupation. This kind of change and this clarity in defining rights and obligations introduces order in the system, and what is created by the provision that you imagine it is an extension of disorder and the creation of this feeling among our citizens that politicians are privileged caste who live on taxpayers' coat of arms. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82408	Thank you very much. 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82409	The amendment is not accepted. The subject-matter proposal on the establishment of a business relationship register, business entities owned by the debtors and members of his family is not acceptable in the light of the existence of an asset card which registers shares in companies owned by the debtor, his partner or underage children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82410	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82411	Thank you. Like I said, why do we even need a commission? It is truly a devastating fact that it is the same body as the one most addressed to the content of this law and that it actually sees that it works or does not work in practice to make proposals, its proposals to you as a competent ministry and none of these proposals that would improve the anti-corruption system you did not accept. It is also devastating that the Commission for Decision-making in the conflict of interest conducted a study of the visit to the Slovenian body that is similar to ours, which is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and that in 2013 it has already been established that Slovenia has not known 10 years before, such a system is one public register showing all business relations with public authorities, i.e. state authorities, regional and local. What's a register like that for? So it's a data-stirring thing. For example, and property card data, where officials report that they have shares in companies, crafts or other economic operators, such as participations in law firms, then they can be seen with whom such business entities enter into business relations during the right or left. Refusal to establish such a single registry shows that you do not care at all about the prevention of corruption and the improvement of the anti-corruption system. You care that the system remains the same, and we know what kind of devastating corrupt affairs such a poorly-conceived system leads to and ask for this amendment to be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82412	Thank you very much, you asked for a vote if I hadn't heard, you did. Thanks, I didn't hear. Mrs. Oreshkovic 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82413	The amendment is not accepted. The application of this provision would be significantly difficult in practice since, for example, the Ministry of Finance controls all budgetary users and tax supervision over all of them, and in such a case, this prohibition would cover practically every legal person, state body or body of the state administration, which is in no way justified from the point of view of preventing conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82414	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82415	Yeah, and what's the problem? It is known that all finance ministers should not do after their work. The fact that our system allows it is a problem that we should have solved by amending and supplementing this law. We now have a situation that the mayor, for example, cannot enter into business relations with a city where he is mayor but can have no problems with the company, with a utility company with a holding company owned by the city and you do not dispute. You say implementation of such a provision would be impossible in practice. No, that's not true, it's only true that this provision of the HDZ government does not want. As for this period, so-called. A period of sailing after the term of office, so that is precisely the purpose of the existence of these provisions, to prevent someone who is through their mandate from gaining influence, power and familiarity from capitalising it after his public duty. So if you leave a provision the way it has read so far, and you have done so, then I really don't know why you even said this is a new law on preventing conflicts of interest because it isn't. I ask that the amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82416	Thank you. 25 Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82417	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82418	Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82419	Then the argument is the same as the argument in the previous case, with the fact that I'm going to add something here in terms of the level of business share. So, so far, the practice has been 0.5% and the legal provision has now raised it to 5% of the ownership stake. The stakes are irrelevant because somewhere and a much smaller percentage can mean a tremendous amount of financial resources. What the law should regulate is who he can't deal with. And it is inappropriate, in fact, that the networked system of clientelism and corruption which unfortunately through an excessive number of counties, cities and municipalities indeed took hold of itself, so that which political structure takes over both family members and friends, but at least there are friends that are hard to control, the family could, enter into business relations with the city, with companies, with institutions, with all the business entities and legal entities that this government controls at that time. And if we have a law on preventing conflicts of interest that allows such situations instead of banning them, we don't have a anti-corruption system that can give any excessive results. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82420	Thank you. Green-left cell phone club 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82421	The amendment is not accepted. This is about data considered tax secret and the possibility of forwarding the results of such a tax administration procedure to the Commission is questionable. Furthermore, it is more important to stress that the tax oversight procedure is prescribed by tax regulations and provides for certain deadlines and therefore it is not possible to provide for the obligation of the Tax Administration to act in accordance with the proposed provisions and within the proposed deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82422	Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82423	Yeah, I don't know, I mean, a man's mind stops when he sees this intrusion that we don't really deal with corruption in any way. All we need is a reason, GDPR, this law, that law only to make this business of theft evident and known, and we're not going to say now that it's gone, that it's still possible. Tax administration doesn't unfortunately do its job right. The law on proof of origin of property has not been since the 1990s. You know what they say? Just don't ask for the first million left legal. We don't want to ask you anything, you don't want to ask a series of questions, you are, by this law, really having been right with your colleague, as you say, the hit amendment, you are really doing a law on preventing the work of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, you are doing a law that will only allow even more enormous theft of public goods and public money, and you are clearly doing it in front of the entire Croatian public. I don't speak personally, but you work in this sector, the leader of course knows the prime minister, the ruling party, the government of the Republic of Croatia, of which I don't know how many ministers, but they can't even count on the charges under investigation. I'm staying with the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82424	Thank you very much. So you're asking for a vote. 27 I think so, don't I? Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82425	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reasons as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82426	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82427	Thank you. So, on this obligation that I propose in the amendment that the IRS implement its procedure within six months so that it can report its results to the Commission so that the Commission publishes these results on the web pages, but I will say something that perhaps the Croatian public does not know, and adds to the previous amendment, which was explained by the Green-Left bloc representative. So it's not true that the IRS doesn't do its job or if it doesn't work, it doesn't just work because it doesn't have enough capacity, but that it wants to do it can make it where it matters. One of the items where the Tax Administration made a perfect comparison and determined the disproportionateity between legal income and real property was the subject of the late Milan Bandic. And in this case, the Tax Administration entered even into the property of a full-age child as well as the property of a spouse and established a disproportionateity, so a powerful second-degree settlement of the Tax Administration found a disproportionate proportion of some 17 million kunas and the problem arose when the case fell to administrative courts. Therefore, the Tax Administration could determine its only need to give it adequate information tools and sufficient human capacities. And what is to be written in this law should simply interinstitutionally connect the various competences of different state bodies, so if the Commission is a body that strengthens integrity by transparency of property cards, well may not have to enter tax analyses, let the Tax Administration continue to do so, let the Tax Administration determine the origin of the property and the disproportionateity between income and property, but it must do so within some appropriate time, appropriate political dynamics process six months and post on websites [[Intruder Radin: Time, time, time.]] I ask that the amendment be voted upon. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82428	28 Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82429	The amendment is not accepted. The extension of the Commission's powers to give an opinion on the draft acts of consent, the assessment of corruption risks and the legislative initiative is not in line with the defined role of the commission as an administrative preventive body aimed at preventing conflicts of interest and control of property cards, and therefore the proposed amendment is not fully acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82430	Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82431	Thank you. So, at the beginning of the amendment's interpretation, you rejected my amendment that asked for a change in the body's name to the office for the prevention of corruption, and you rejected the SDP amendment which required that corruption prevention be entered into the jurisdiction and purpose of the existence of this law, and you see that it is really not clear to you what a law like this should mean and what the role and purpose of the commission should be. So the problem for us is that these tasks, therefore, are an analysis of the corruption risks arising from the law that should just be adopted or an analysis of the corruption risks that exist in practice, so no one in Croatia is doing this to us at this time in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why laws like the Emergency Administration Act happen to us, that's why. Lex Agrokora, and if we had a body that really deals with the prevention of corruption, then that body, if nothing else, would have said to us that the extraordinary commissioners weren't the property card officials. So, the intensity of this amendment is to form an institution that will have professional expertise and capacity, to read a legal proposal and to say what has great corrupt potential in this law. If we had such a body, the numerous corruptions we witness from day to day would never have happened. And in addition to this simpler and easier task because it's easy to read some law and see what's wrong with it, I figured that the body does a much harder task, which is that based on the writings it reads, with which it can't do anything because it simply doesn't have the authority to say what law should be passed and what corrupt practice to anyone. They're not on the radar, and nobody's dealing with them. [[Intruder Radin: time, thank you.]] I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82432	Thank you. You're looking for a vote, yes good. Mrs. Oreshkovic 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82433	The amendment is not accepted. It is not acceptable to significantly strengthen the conditions for the chairman of the commission to have a judicial exam, to know the theory and practice of international law in the field of anti-corruption policies and conflicts of interest and 15 years of scratches in the justice system. Those conditions would significantly limit the number of candidates who would meet the formal conditions for such a duty, and there is no clear explanation why such conditions are crucial to the quality of the duties of the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82434	Amendment number Mrs. Oreshkovic, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82435	Thank you, Chairman. So, so far, we have had the prescribed clear, prescribed in the existing law that the chairman of the commission must have a judicial exam. The Constitutional Court is in its 2012 decision. with which he abolished those good provisions from the time of Jadranka Kosor, so-called The Commission's strong powers to enter bank accounts, that it may request an official to resign or change as one form of sanctions, therefore, it also pointed to the lack of law in the part which prescribes criteria for members and for the chairman of the commission. What you are doing now is putting down the criteria instead of raising those criteria and when you say there is no rational justification for such an amendment, it is very important that the president of this body has one professional authority, that he has a specific professional knowledge of the matter of conflict of interest and prevention of corruption on the basis of relevant international theoretical documents, but also practices and that it is one of the conditions for the appointment of candidates. You say they'll narrow it down, so let's narrow it down, so let's narrow it down, it's important we get a quality candidate. And what you obviously predicted and came up with is that any lawyer can literally appear at the level of a seal-beater from a counter, so we're not going to achieve that the anti-corruption system, the system of preventing conflicts of interest is improving or we're going to get citizens to trust in institutions. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82436	Article 30 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82437	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82438	It becomes part of the bill. 31 MP Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82439	The amendment is not accepted. It is not acceptable to propose an amendment to the Article. Article 41(3), which provides for the possibility to initiate the procedure on the basis of an anonymous application that has been verified by subsequent checks. In fact, the current text foresees the launch of the procedure by the commission under official duty, which in the broadest sense gives the commission the opportunity to initiate the procedure... considers that there is a need for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82440	Thank you. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82441	Thank you. Would you please tell me, Your Honor, what will happen in the event of the initiation of the procedure on the basis of your own knowledge of the commission, or by official duty, if that knowledge has been obtained on the basis of an anonymous application? Is that, by your rightful reason for initiating the procedure or not? So, what bothers you with anonymous reports? So people are justifiably afraid to report irregularities they witness from day to day. And it's not the point of a report whether someone signed it or not, and I'm not saying that there are different interpretations. If someone writes a name and a last name without an address, whether it's anonymous or not anonymous. How will the commission determine the credibility of someone's identity so they won't check his identity cards, so stupidity. The point of the application is whether it is such as to give rise to the initiation of the procedure. Whether it has relevant information, relevant knowledge, possible evidence. In the event that it is so completely irrelevant how the commission came to that application and whether, as I said, it is anonymous. What you're looking for is that you're asking for the name and last name to be signed by a person who had the courage to say what was actually going on in practice so that this person could be further harassed. Just see what happened to Mrs. Adriana Cvrtila and where she now ended up despite all the provisions of the whistle protection law or the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. It was protected by no one in this system, so at least those people are protected by making it possible to initiate the procedure based on anonymous reports as it has worked so far. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82442	32nd Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82443	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal to amend Article 44(3) in such a way as to prescribe that certain decisions in the competence of the Commission are public, given that it is no longer prescribed that a decision is taken to initiate the procedure. Furthermore, the current text of the law provides that a decision by the Commission on the establishment or non-confirmation of the existence of a conflict of interest is to be taken as a rule at a public session unless the Commission finds that there are reasons to exclude the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82444	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82445	I've already commented on it in public and in this assembly, and I say it again. So, the worst change, therefore, is the most dangerous change, the most insidious change in this law compared to what we've had so far, is not even taking away the opportunity of the commission to decide on the basis of a violation of the principle, but this. Distracting the public from the committee's session. So, it's been unquestionable so far, no exceptions. And there must not even be any rational justification for the Commission's being able to decide, in its opinion, that it is an object of a politician, I have in mind exactly what politicians might in practice be referring to, the cases against Andrej Plenkovic or one of his ministers. I am quite certain that there will be a cause for the public and the media's presence to be excluded from the committee's session. So it's unacceptable and unacceptable. As it is unacceptable for the publication of acts, therefore the opinion or decision of the commission to bind the delivery to the official or the debtor for a moment. Those acts were adopted and should be public the moment the decision was voted. And I can allow any time limit of 8 or 15 days as long as it takes the professional service to print, tip, to check spelling errors, but that's not more than 8 or 15 days. Involving the possibility that by refusing to deliver, the official refuses to know about the decision of the commission, that is to say, for a body that should deal with transparency and integrity means the death of the purpose of action. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82446	And in the end, 33. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82447	The amendment is not accepted. It is not acceptable to propose in paragraph 1. Article 48(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82448	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82449	The fundamental but not only dispute between the legislators and the part of the opposition parties that we see from the subsidized amendments is, among other things, the law of the commission so far, that on the individual behaviour of the officials, they express their own court or as the Prime Minister said they do reputation damage by telling officials that something was wrong and that something was wrong. I kind of detected it the following way. Those who do illicit acts under the Penal Code and by the Law on the Prevention of the conflict of the interest of the couples also have a fine of a thousand, two, five, ten, or fifty thousand kunas is not a punishment for them, but reputation damage is their punishment. So, not only do they have money and power but they'd still want it now, but they'd still want it to have a good voice to the end. But as long as we have a good voice, we won't let them have a good vote, and in that sense, this law will become a hit of the year, but I hope it won't take many years, that it will be changed when the political circumstances change, and until then all we have left is that we don't keep their good vote by losing any voice and in this game there's no other word than to raise our voice and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82450	Thank you very much. We are done with amendments to the proposal, to the Final Proposal of the Law on Conflict of Interest, and we move on to choice, appointments, resolutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82656	The next statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, second reading, P.Z. Number 160. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Centre and GLAS Representatives' Club, and I would like to ask the Proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, State Secretary Natasa Mikush Zigman. Amendment of the 1st Club of Representatives and the only Centre and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82657	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Amendment 1 is not accepted. In fact, the introduction of voluntary membership is not the subject of this law but is a release from membership for the first group of members covering micro and small economic operators as the most numerous part of membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82658	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82659	Thank you, Chairman. Yes, I understand what you are trying to impose all the time, but it is certain that Article 4 requires what is prescribed, we believe that membership in the HGK must be voluntary, should function on the principle of free market economy and pay the price for the requested service. Such a system has been introduced in neighbouring Slovenia, and it works fantasticly there, giving good results. We also believe that it is necessary for the chamber to be substantially reformed to adapt and provide services in such a way that all its members are satisfied with the services of the HGK, so if they are satisfied with the service it will be the best invitation to recognise their membership in that chamber, but because they themselves will not want to do so because the state will impose it on them. All the other provisions that are now introduced by this law are simply not reform, nor lead to a fundamental change. This is a key topic on which the legislator should take account. Here I insist on that amendment and ask for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82660	Okay. Amendment 2 of the same club. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82661	Amendment 2 is also not accepted. The provision of Article 32 of this Act requires that members of the chamber of the first group do not have an obligation to pay the membership fee. It is equally prescribed that in the event that a member of the chamber of the first group decides to pay membership fees, all special services and products may be used in accordance with the decision of the chamber assembly. Article 31(1) provides that the level of membership for each individual group of chamber members shall be determined each year by the Assembly of the Chamber. All members of the second and third groups and those members of the first group who decide to pay the membership fee are therefore covered. That principle does not leave room for a different interpretation or, in particular, for the Chamber’s assembly to decide on the obligation to pay membership fees for members of the first group.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82662	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82663	Thank you. Well, here's what we're gonna do with this amendment being voted on. I hope that you are right and that in practice there will be no different or questionable interpretation, and what will ultimately be seen after the law enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82664	Amendment 3 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82665	Thank you very much. The amendment shall be accepted in a modified form by means of a read. The members of the chamber of the first group referred to in Article 30(2) of this Act which decides to pay the membership fee shall inform the Chamber thereof. The explanation is next. Payment of membership fee for the first group means for micro and small entrepreneurs in the mandatory membership system has been abolished, but they can, at any time without restriction, express their desire to remain in the accounting and charging regime of the chamber membership, which they then inform the chamber of.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82666	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82667	So we accept this altered form.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82668	Okay, thanks to the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82670	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning! Before starting with the item on the agenda, which is the first on the schedule of information, we will also have a point on amendments today – Selection, appointments and resolutions discussed by the relevant parliamentary committee. Tomorrow we'd start at 9.30 p.m. with a vote and then we'd vote and finish voting, so we don't end up with a free speech, but with a vote. That's it. And then we can move on - The final draft law implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/1503 on European common funding service providers, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 239. The proposal is proposed by the Government pursuant to Article 85 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, so I would now ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of the above-mentioned final proposal for the law, respectable Secretary of State Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82671	I would like to thank the Honorable President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. So as you have heard before us is the proposal for a law implementing a regulation on European providers of joint financing services with the draft final draft law or what is more relevant to the public, etc. Crowdfunding. In this regard, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have just adopted the regulation in question on 7 October, and we thereby ensure the application of the same regulation although the Regulations apply directly we have an obligation to enter into our legislation all legal assumptions that it can be applied. This regulation established uniform EU-wide rules for the provision of a joint financing service based on lending and joint financing based on investment. Therefore, two types that will be able to be provided through service providers that go through the internet platform itself. What is important is that the European Commission, i.e. the European Union, has recognised the potential, and that is what is here several times when I come from the financial sector, always those two directions I have told you about, is to increase the possibility of funding, i.e. the release of capital, i.e. financial opportunities and resources as regards investors themselves, but with a parallel increase in security. It was seen here that given that a lot of European countries have arranged or some have had, we have so far, with this we are editing this market for the first time, that cross-border it was quite inactive. So, with this as Croatia first and foremost, we get the opportunity for our own, and this is intended for startups and small, SMEs' small and medium-sized enterprises, given that, later on, I will also mention the threshold of the maximum funding of up to five million euros in 12 months, which is viewed by individual project owners just to allow a wider access to funding. So, if someone who is starting up does not have the possibility of borrowing from a credit institution, surely Croatia as a small capital market did not give or give enough maybe adequateness to collect finance, this opens up for all the countries of the European Union both for us and for all the other Member States, the Member States. Otherwise, only, joint financing is a more significant form of intervention where the provider of the joint financing services does not take its own risk managing the digital platform which is open to the public. This is the model through which this will be able to raise funds, precisely with the aim of connecting or facilitating the integration of potential investors or lenders. So, that's either a long-based or a long-based one, so either you borrow money with certain interest and expectations of return, or you get into shares, so you own the company itself. So, more or less short, given that the law in front of you, as I said, speaks more of application, of the supervisory body, of regulation and of this regulation itself is not mentioned there so much. I'll just talk a little bit about the regulation itself. So here we have identified three important stakeholders, the project owner or one who proposes a financing project, the investor who naturally invests and the self-organisation that serves as an intermediary is through a specific Internet platform as provided for in this Regulation, so this service provider that, through which everything can be done. As for someone, we don't have anyone, we had a few questions on the board. There are no latest reports regarding the market itself, there is a 2015 report. In all countries, therefore, as regards the thirteenth and fourteenth Member States, this was a little more than, or nearly, 207,000 projects worth a total of 2.3 billion euros. This is about a Europe that was less or less than that only 7% had some cross-border element, or activity. So all of this was more or less largely within the Member States themselves, and that is why this regulation introduces this cross-border possibility, unique rules for all in order to facilitate the possibility of collecting the investments themselves. Therefore, what should only be noted is that this Regulation does not apply to other types of joint financing such as what is based on prizes, donations or when natural persons or consumers themselves appear as project owners. I've mentioned some of the main conditions more or less. I'm going to say what the goals of these regulations are or actually what determines this law in front of us today. In particular, this Final Act lays down the competent authority, the field of work and the authority of the competent authority and the infringement provisions for the implementation of this Regulation. In particular, it's HANFA of course. The purpose itself is, above all, that entities that intend to provide joint financing services and are not regulated entities must be granted work with continued compliance with appropriate organisational and capital requirements. Therefore, it is clear from the Regulation that the minimum for the prudential requirements that companies must meet is 25 thousand euros which can also be covered by an insurance policy or by own capital injection and the same amount covering 5% of the fixed costs of the total costs over the past 12 months, that is, as regards the service provider. Of course, investor protection is currently being ensured on the very platforms for joint financing through the obligation of the providers of joint financing services to test the investor's knowledge of the types concerned, investment and the ability to submit losses and, therefore, to distinguish sophisticated investors and non-sofistic investors. So, the shortest words are sophisticated professional investors, investment houses that do it either for their own account or for their own behalf for someone else's account, and the unsophisticated would be something that would be said like this by small, smaller companies or citizens themselves. There are also a number of specific conditions which are regulated by this Regulation and this is one of the obligations of the providers of joint financing services to warn precisely those unsophisticated clients and potential clients about the absence of any investment protection mechanisms. The Regulation sets out exactly what it means to be one of the essential information actually made by the owner of the project which is parallel and the service provider must verify where they are placed. It's kind of like having a stock market code on that prospectus. So some basic information, and it is precisely prescribed, that all of these must be stated by the regulation that all those responsibilities or denials of risk and knowledge must be prescribed, in fact, by the unsophisticated investor himself in what is being invested. Also, as far as further purposes are concerned, these information is what is most important and most in principle is most invested on principle... the data that are actually mandatory when any exiting on the platform itself which must provide potential investors with particularly unsofistic. The check is also done at the level of the unsophisticated investor crossing a thousand euros. Then it is an obligation to transfer a thousand euros or 10% of the total assets of investors entering and the regular receipts and assets he has reported. So it really went into extensive security of this way of funding just to reduce those risks and increase the safety itself. What is also important as regards the very part of the law, the field of work and the powers of the HANFA itself, so they have the power to issue work permits, to monitor the work of such platforms, to regulate the issue of client protection, of course transparency and promotional content related to the provision of services, joint financing, the authority of this proposal and, of course, to give them the power to impose administrative sanctions and to take appropriate and other administrative measures that must always have certain principles, efficiency and proportionality and, of course, to be dissuasive. As well as the coordination itself with the European Securities Supervisory Authority and ESMA's Capital Market, which is being managed by the register of all these service providers themselves. So here we finally have a new, new legal one that will allow me to trust our small businesses, small and medium-sized start-up companies that have one through existing platforms that have already been recorded in Croatia but surely we are now editing this issue to extend the possibility of funding and even direct foreign investment in our own companies and our economy. I would also like to say this way that the proposer accepts the amendments that came from the Legislative Committee. Here's a thank you for your attention and I'll stay free to ask questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82672	Now let's go with the replicas. The secretary of state has a certain number. Now I'll tell you exactly how much. Six. The first one is a colleague, Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82673	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, joint funding would be an alternative model for financing a small economy and we believe that all such forms of additional funding opportunities for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs would be absolutely necessary. You said you didn't know exactly what the market's situation is, you don't have complete data on what the market situation is right now in the Republic of Croatia. I've been looking at some of the work I've come across here, and it says that 2017 is behind the market for joint funding in decline. There is something through donations or rewards, and what this Law refers to, therefore, about ownership stakes, we are actually very bad. In 2020, there was no model based on ownership shares at all. What do you think the potential is anyway? Do you have any research on the potential of these models in the future, which platforms might still be offered because there are only a few of them now as far as I've seen and not a lot of these projects?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82674	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82675	Here's a thank you. Yes, as far as the data is concerned, I was talking about this European one. We couldn't get out of those 2.3 billion just before some fresher data. As far as Croatia is concerned, of course we have reported absolutely there. There are 6 which we have noticed activities on the financial market of six different companies providing loan services. Also two are owners, that's our first Croinvest. As for some of them themselves, you've detected this well, so, first of all, it was the joint financing of the donor format, which was which is not subject to this Regulation. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Here we said this is borrowed and owned. So either you can through this platform and opportunity, borrow someone's money or enter into the property structure. Of these donors were the financing of the Višnjan Starship project, an e-worker, by a case-playing company in Osijek that manufactures mobile screens, so something exists. Of course, it's the IT sector that's most pro-pulsory and we expect most of the funds to be collected through these platforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82676	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82677	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It is good to enter, of course, that directive that went through Europe last year. However, I wanted something, a little observation one, it is interesting that we have more than a dozen years of foreign banks in Croatia that would be interested and therefore, we know that the Italian banks, German, Austrian, Hungarian and so on, have been in the territory of Croatia for a long time. They would find that particularly interesting if they had no difference between one market and the other, and they did not steal something too much to insist on such a thing at EU level, and neither Croatia. So I'm glad it came to this, just that it's different in interest that you and how you saw between borrowing companies in Italy. This same company when in charge of Croatia, a completely different story from guarantee papers to everything else. I'm glad that's what happened just because of the banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82678	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82679	Well, yeah, I'd just like to point out briefly, in the opening smoothing. So we in our capital market, or financial investment, are always banking. Not always, but we're extremely in that direction. So all our businesses when they raise funds are more or less talking to credit institutions. When you start up, you may not be able to meet the conditions for getting credit. This is exactly one of the options of how you can get the funding. So this has a triple possibility, which this is offered. It's not just the fundraising, it's the collection and the knowledge. Through the entry you get people who might be doing this, which will contribute to the development of your project, your business venture. And thirdly, those who have been recognised by the same regulation are marketing. So, you through this advertising through making brochures, you can have your products, your activities, and so does that marketing aspect. So it looks not only through this part of funding, but through a series of different aspects that are being opened to our small businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82680	Now it's time for my colleague, Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82681	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, one question about Crowdfunding in Croatia. Is this new regulation going to collect their entire business? Because we know that these platforms are still on some level of profitability and this one, we personally advocate this law, because it needs to be regulated. However, do you have some kind of feedback, feedback feedback, feedback, whether or not this regulation, for such a shallow market in Croatia will mean anything to them at all. Is it still necessary to register now, get some kind of surveillance, have some sort of probable and certain other requirements from the regulator, so just whether HanFA was doing some kind of cost at all for them, or is that, or is that for them, it will still be acceptable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82682	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82683	Thank you. Yes, the law stipulates, you only have one note that the HANFA will arrange with its own regulation regarding the fees themselves. So safe for monitoring for all costs, that, that goes. What I'm going to do is just pull the parallel with the previous question the same about the banking sector. So banks should also enter the approval process. They can't do this with automation. But this is their direct competition, so. This is something that we take a piece of cake, so to speak, from the bank and we go this way to open up the possibility. As far as profitability is concerned, this is the cross-border key. Because this is what you open up big scope, you collect investment at EU level, which we do not have potential, as our capital market in Croatia does not have. And I think they will find their profitability to collect investors from all over Europe for Croatian projects. In simple, transparent and safer ways, than it has certainly been done so far. So we give our companies the width, and then they'll find these service providers themselves, that bill of theirs, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82684	Thank you, Comrade Begonja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82685	I thank the President, Secretary of State. It is good to take this EU acquis into our legislation and, in fact, to create a single legal framework in EU member states. However, I wonder, are there mechanisms in this regulation that would control the origin of investor money? To avoid, in some ways, potentially speaking, the ability to launder money through this kind of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82686	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82687	Thank you. Yes, by reading the regulation, there is not only that segment that mentions, but also a segment of conflict of interest. So that the owners of the platform itself must not finance their own, their projects, that their connected persons, therefore, went all of course through the protection of the data itself, GDPR, in relation to supervisory bodies. Of course it's included through this aspect, this is exactly what we're allowing, because let's say every one of them, every piece of information about some new ownership project is heading towards HANFI. And it's HANFA that controls the whole process. And if some anomalies occur, as far as you're concerned about funding itself, because they have to determine, the service provider himself is what I mentioned, if it's over 1000 euros, above 10% of the assets, then they have to check and warn. Not with the aim of preventing money laundering, but with the aim of protecting the investor himself. But that information is being forwarded to the HANFI and it can react so that everything on that side, as far as it's concerned, is covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82688	A colleague of Peric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82689	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is the kind of alternative funding, especially what you said about start-ups that don't still have references that would be enough for here, banks, that will get real competition in this way. What is still good and important is that, given that both very quickly and we, as a state, will enter the Eurozone, this is another, another advantage of total capital. But it's also important to say that other than loans, you can also enter the ownership structure. So these companies that have serious so these companies that have serious projects can really get into all these relationships in this way, and thus enable them to develop quality projects in our area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82690	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82691	Thank you. Yes, so you've made this very good for the euro. I think it will certainly contribute to reducing the interest itself and the cost of financing, as well as the ability to collect this kind of funding. Of course, what I'd like to mention when I'm talking about this ownership structure, so I'm the intervention service provider company myself. So, they don't get paid, they don't get paid, they don't make any payments, they don't make transfer contracts, it's through every national law, it goes through public notebooks. So they're just one tool, or one center where you get information and you look at which brochures, information, which projects you want to finance and invest, and they bring you together with those that need funding. What is also important is that the second market is opened in the lending sector by means of an ad panel over these same service providers. So there can be sold loans they are future contributions to something you have given which also increases activity in the capital market itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82692	Thank you. And colleague Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82693	Dear colleague, I welcome the adoption of this. The truth of the will is already in force, so today we are voting on something that has already been applied in the EU for a month, and the same regulation was passed a year and a few days ago. My question is, don't you think we should have brought some other laws into line with this as regards the Capital Market Act, the Company Act eventually. And I have to admit, it's very unclear when we talk about just getting funds from outside. It is very likely that the EU market is opening up to us as possible investors, so I find it unclear from this law how you will work to protect investors who are Croats towards the outside. We've kind of had that SKDD, or SDA up to now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82694	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82695	Yes, as regards the first part of the question, it is precisely in order to ensure legal certainty and administrative dispensation in respect of persons and activities covered by the scope of the regulation as you have said that it applies directly, not only this one, but all the regulations, and we ensure that this can be done, and in order to avoid a situation where certain activities are subject to multiple labour approvals. So this is an administrative discharge in the EU. Legal persons authorised to work as providers of joint financing services under the Regulation will be exempt from the application of the relevant provisions of the Capital Market Act. So exactly there was a distinction so that we wouldn't put too much administrative burden on it. As far as possibilities are concerned, of course it goes in a two-way manner, that our citizens can finance projects concerning domestic platforms, so those Croatians that will provide any information about foreign projects or participation on some foreign platforms. So it's going in a two-way direction. But we certainly watch here what is most important to us is the promotion of our companies and our projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82696	Thank you. I thank the Secretary of State. We've come to an end. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82697	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a regulation before us today that we will apply directly, and this is about joint financing. And now that we're reading a regulation like this, and today we're trying in this world of expansion of these financial services to try to simply plastically explain what this is all about by reading this concept as a finding, joint funding, etc. In order to simply present itself to one side, it is a new concept which in Croatia probably only knows a few of these investors involved. Most citizens have the very idea and access to such joint funding is not very well known, because it is mostly seen from the latest report of the Croatian National Bank. Our citizens are most focused on business banks and on raising cash loans. This is the number one cash credit in Croatia, non-intentional loans and on the other hand, when banks sell it further to debt trading. That's here when you look at the financial sector in Croatia it's totally 99% not to say the whole way of funding. This is about a new model based on new technologies, which is even more complicated the whole process where, between those in need of capital, companies are mostly craftsmen, small and medium-sized enterprises and those with capital are mostly citizens who have that part of the money. I'm not talking about banks here, I'm talking about individuals or other companies. How do you connect them? One who needs capital and one who has capital to actually merge and start a certain part of investment. This used to be done through the capital market, i.e. through the stock market, and that is what we mostly know in Croatia as a stock exchange, as a infrastructure where there is a company that issues securities. There are citizens on the other hand, a public prospectus, you invest money and actually your money, you follow your investment through the stock market. Now, as technology develops, technology develops further, so-called technology occurs. joint financing or so on. That crofounding that actually happened all the time, because technologies go so fast, it happened but wasn't regulated. And precisely why Europe always goes before it goes to the United States because it was a major crisis in 2008, and we felt it in Croatia for a long time because we had 6 years of recession. And before this kind of funding model develops through these platforms, via the Internet Europe wants to regulate it and that's good. Another good law that we actually prescribe from Europe, probably from all those countries in Europe. It's mostly preceded by Great Britain, France and Germany. That's three countries where most of the so-called. the total financing of that large country with developed financial markets with financial markets developed for 200 years. They have developed capital markets and these ways of funding, they are also ahead of it. Probably these smaller countries, especially Croatia and the entire probably eastern part of Europe, know little about it. However, in order for no particular digital fraud to occur, in this form, Europe is now regulating it and it is good that whoever is looking for money through these Internet platforms has to make it very clear where they're going to invest that money, which is the forms of risk, means they have to make a whole procedure of what they're going to do with that money, so that whoever invests money has information because you're always dealing with information, whether we have enough information about what we're investing in, where we invest that money. When we invest money in banks, we're relatively safe, why? Because they say again, we protect you up to 100,000 euros per account and then citizens don't have to worry so much about what happens if a certain bank fails because there is still a system of regulation to protect that money. However, what is happening today? Today we have, interest is zero, 0%. 0% are bank interest and what do citizens do then? Most of the money they have is investing, and we see inflation is seriously biting, now it's seriously biting that part of the money that we're saving up to 0 to 1%, and now that inflation is, we see, not in Croatia, but in European countries, it's going to be over 5.6% and 7%. What's going on in the team... that the citizens are withdrawing money from the bank accounts and are looking for a place to invest it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're looking for a place to invest to protect him from inflation. In Croatia, what fundamental right to invest in real estate, that kind of history has taught us, we invest in real estate to keep some value of that money, right? So the Croats are the largest real estate owners in Europe, almost 90 percent. But now the prices of real estate go wild, so they go beyond all possible limits, and now the question is that this one part of the money that citizens have, if it's already creating certain minuses, where to invest and now it appears so-called. that crodfunding or joint funding where through various online platforms they offer you on the other hand, various businesses, OPGs, projects, small and medium-sized enterprises that tell you, invest in us, we will give you a bigger contribution than you have on the accounts, right? And that's why it's good for us to pass this bill to be regulated or to protect small investors, so that everyone can invest that money, so that they know that there's a regulated market on the other hand, and what is this law doing? So he's not talking about Crowdfunding, he's just saying that the money, those platforms that are actually going to be on the Internet, that they have to be registered, means they can't be out in the wild, so they have to be registered, that they have to have the approval of HANFA, the regulator, that the HANFA has to license, that the HANFA must also be supervised and that they have to satisfy the whole process when they offer their product, that they have to satisfy the entire process of marketing investment, the marketing whole of that process, and that it's strictly controlled and monitored. That this little investor who wants to withdraw his money, doesn't keep it in the account anymore, that on the other hand, knows that there is still a regulated market. And that is why we believe that even before this common funding market developed in Croatia, it is good that it is regulated. This is where the secretary of state said very well about the development of the market in Croatia, so there are some Funderbeam platforms, which in 5 years have raised about 5 million euros, then Cro-Invest which is about 3.5 million kuna, etc., so there are in Croatia the beginnings of this crodfunding, right? However, they are a more expensive source of funding than a bank service, is it, right now because every startup, to be completely open, if he were looking for money, he could get money, then he could get it, that money cheaper, so he would go to the bank, any startup that is project finance, has a whole, will go to the bank today, he would get here in a bank of 1 to 2, 3%, in HBOR, HAMAG, the state has developed an entire financing instrument for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Not just through HBOR, HAMAG and numerous others, and what European funds offer. So here it is, however, somewhat risky projects, somewhat more risky projects than those that can satisfy these entire processes because still, you can't say that no one can compete with better conditions today than HBOR and HAMAG offer 1% for small and medium entrepreneurship. So as soon as someone can't get there, it comes across these platforms for, but that means it's a more risky project. It does not mean that it is a bad project, that this project can fail, but it is more risky, and it must know that citizens who are on the other hand want to invest in such a form, that they have something, and they will probably ask for something bigger, to be completely open on the other hand, and those citizens who are investing in this money are probably looking for a higher contribution, perhaps 4 or 5% than they have money on their accounts, and as soon as this one asks for a bigger contribution, and on the other hand, this is more risky projects, and both of which go beyond some standard of normal financing in Croatia, it is necessary to regulate that the team will not play out, and that is why we support this Act to be implemented as soon as possible and it is good to use good EU practices and that is another good for Croatia in the single European capital market and SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82698	Thank you, too. We're now going to the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Begonja, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82699	... We therefore have before us a proposal for a Law implementing the EU Regulation of 2020/1503 on European providers of joint financing services with a final draft of the law and which, of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will support. [[Specially enabled.]] Joint funding as a new moment, the new form for businesses is an alternative way of collecting capital and, as is said, in the early stage of their growth, and it is particularly important to raise capital for start-ups and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Up to now in certain Member States, until the adoption of this Regulation, joint funding has been regulated by national legal norms or has not been in fact regulated at all, and the adoption of the EU Parliament and Council Regulation as well as the adoption of a Directive of 2020/1504 has created a legislative framework in the providers of joint financing services for companies in application of 10 November of this year. Circumstances that there are no legal frameworks in some EU Member States to regulate this issue of joint financing until the regulation is adopted, have prevented so-called. cross-border provision of joint financing services, as well as the development of the financial instrument market itself. This Regulation, which we, by law, adopt by the proposed law in question, represents for the first time the same set of rules for the provision of joint financing services to undertakings that have their business place in the EU, and refers to providers of joint financing services based on borrowing or acquisition of ownership shares. The regulation aims to make it easier for entrepreneurs to access new sources of funding. On the one hand, the project owners benefit from the adoption of that Regulation, which significantly expands the number of potential investors in their projects, but the benefits of investors themselves, which increase the ability to place their financial resources. Co-financing service providers must meet minimum requirements operating on the home market or on the capital market of other EU members and play a role as an open-to-public digital platform operator, which makes it easier to connect investors or lenders with companies that are looking for them, etc. alternative sources of funding. The regulation covers projects offered on an internet platform with limits of 5m euros at the level of all offers of one project owner within 12 months. The Regulation also regulates the issue of issuance and authorisation for the work and supervision of those digital platforms, the question of customer protection, transparency of promotional content in relation to the provision of a joint financing service. The Regulation also regulates the issue of national supervisory authorities, including by giving the power to impose administrative sanctions and to take appropriate other administrative measures that must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, as well as the issue of coordination by the European Securities and Markets Supervisory Authority. Therefore, entrepreneurs are open to capital collection opportunities and through the sale of limited liability shares in companies that will need to meet certain transferability conditions. We, respected colleagues and colleagues, by adopting this proposal for a law, will bring our legislation into line with the acquis of the EU in a way that will enable the implementation of the Regulation, and the Law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act ensures that the provisions of the Capital Market Act for reasons to avoid the application of double rules to entities when providing joint financing services and to ensure a level playing field between all market participants. The proposal for a law achieves that the HANFAs are granted the power necessary to carry out the tasks under the Regulation in relation to the providers of joint financing services, including the granting of work permits to the providers of joint financing services, the supervision of the work of the joint financing platforms, the authority to file indictments for infringements prescribed for breach of the provisions of the regulation in question, as well as the protection of investors on platforms through the obligation to provide joint financing services to test their knowledge of the investment types concerned and their ability to submit losses. In this way, after this verification, the customer service provider categorises them to sophisticated and unsophisticated investors, and these unsophisticated investors, the service provider should warn them that there are no mechanisms to protect their investment, that there is a risk of the total loss of the amount invested and that the individual product does not comply with the client's investment profile. These are very important information for investors before their final investment decision. All clients of investors, providers of joint financing services, shall be obliged to inform about the characteristics of the products themselves, i.e. projects, by providing them with key information brochures, before potential investment realization and inform them of any significant changes in the characteristics of the investment. The bill also regulates the relationship between the service provider and the project owner in such a way that there is an obligation to produce key brochures, key investment information brochures, issued by the project owner, and the joint financing service provider is responsible for monitoring the accuracy of the data display and for warning the owners in case of errors which may have material effects on investors. In order to ensure legal certainty and administrative redundancies in terms of and activities covered by the scope of the regulation in question and to avoid a situation in which an activity is subject to multiple authorisations for work in the EU, legal persons who are authorised to work as a provider of joint financing services are exempt from the application of the provisions of the Capital Market Act when providing joint financing services for businesses. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the simplified authorisation procedure if the HANFA already has certain business information on the provider of joint financing services in relation to the earlier approvals issued in accordance with the provisions of the Capital Market Act. Finally, it should be pointed out that Regulation 1503/2020 does not apply to joint financing based on awards, donations or when they are the owners of projects of natural persons, citizens or citizens. consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82700	We are now going to debate the Social Democrats Club, a respected colleague, Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82701	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, I'll say I'm extremely glad to go out for this pay phone and see that we all agree on something, that we agree on the importance of developing a Croatian society, that it's good that we're in Europe because in this financial part, at least I think it knows where it goes or has certain indications that it knows what it wants to do. What Europe started to do the last time we talked about securitisation is actually trying in some way something that America had done a long time ago, to increase capital or trade and capital so as not to increase economic activity. In principle, I think it's a good thing and I think it's a good thing when it's regulated or what I mean when I say it's regulated? When protection is given to those who need to be protected, or those who do not have all the information, which is usually investors in this case because the person who wants to sell something knows what he wants to sell. The one who wants to buy this is very doubtful whether he knows all the information, but is willing to take a certain risk and from that risk, as counterpart Lalovac said, to have a slightly greater profit. Now, a colleague here talked about unsophisticated and sophisticated investors, some called it institutional and not institutional, what arises is that the problem that the digital platform operator may at the time protect himself will prevent someone from entering the market or entering a project regardless of what the person is willing to take the risk. I think that's a question to think about, this when you're talking about a thousand Euros 10% of the assets, I have to admit to a large part of the people who deal with investment and risk crossing those borders. And I have to admit it's kind of normal to cross them, that these boundaries aren't like that that, as we witnessed in 2008, certain credit burdens or... immersion for the rest of their lives, but that's also the risk they took themselves. The kind of protection that is proposed here is good. What I'm asking is, where will the property be recorded? It is said here that they will be referred to public notebooks or some procedure that is once again subject to the normal process as we know it today, and in that case very difficult, except for those big ones who will approach our market or we will approach the site because someone who wants to invest a thousand, two, three euros will not go to Berlin to sign a contract or someone from Berlin will make it to us. What is not in this, which is just today a cryptic currency market, or the whole process and procedure that happened in the world that we, in some ways, don't know, is not that we don't want to probably regulate but we don't get along with it, which takes over primate in these projects, and I think that we as a society should look at that part of the market and try to give answers in some way. I'm saying, as far as this is concerned, where we kind of combine that and in a neat way, we combine someone who needs capital with someone who has capital who's willing to risk having some kind of project run well for our economy, it's good for our society. We cannot practically do anything wrong in society in a way that one will have damages because one who takes the risk, who will study the entire documentation that according to this will be available to him is aware of what goes into it. What's my question here is also about individual loan management, I have to admit, after the last time we passed that securitisation law that we're trying to do here? Is this just a direct loan to the company that needs it, so the bank avoids what the colleague was talking about where the banks didn't drop interest on us, and they put it down in the rest of Europe or is it something else? I say, this law should be supported, and I'm sorry because it's practically in force or passed in Europe a year and a few months ago, it took effect a month ago that we didn't speed up and maybe we saw what else in some of the other laws we could change to make this approach to capital or to the development of society better. Now I'm going to remember something that was brought a year ago and I think it was extremely good, and it was those Internet nomads, and this is another step into some kind of space that we're hoping will be good. And here I am sincerely hoping that this law will help our startups, people who have ideas that can't be placed for a simple reason because they can't raise capital because banks don't want to risk them finding investors. And that investors would make a profit according to the assessment because it was their goal. And that this arrangement will be better in all Croatian society. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82702	We are now going to final talks, the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Marin Mandaric, reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82703	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, fellow MPs and deputies, here's one final after this brief debate. It may not be surprising that it is brief since we heard that the regulation actually came into effect about 2 months ago, which means that in the adoption of this law only taking over the regulation is the same as entering into our legal, legal order and somehow this debate is also in function.../incomprehensible/... awareness of the service together funded, that it is actually something that exists, which is now being introduced in the legal order of both the EU and Croatia. Of course, it is about expanding and liberalising the financial market and financial services, but at the same time this bill is also a certain regulation. We have also heard in previous discussions the regulation is good given that this is something new, something new both on the side of funding and on the side of investment. We have heard that it is an alternative source of funding whether as credit finance or investment financing but on the other hand, an alternative source or a way of investing for those who have extra funds, so we would choose this way and invest. Get eventually better returns to your own, to your investment than it is right now at low interest rates at banks. It is expected that these types of activities will be more and more, that they will decide and as we have heard the expression of unsophisticated investors actually mean small investors what ordinary people who have extra money would say, so they will decide to invest their funds in this way. And of course the level of their information to say so, the experience of investment is not at some appropriate level and therefore it is necessary, necessary and good this additional, additional regulation of course for the purpose of and in the function of protecting small, small investors. Here, reading this bill of law, the only thing that got me a little dizzy about the booklet with the key investment information. It is clear what its function is to actually shed light on and all the doubt in, in the context of a potential investment but what I say is a little bit tickled by the fact that this brochure can be in Croatian or English or in English and there may be little in practice disseminating, for example, small investors who do not have so much experience, and they are given a brochure on key investment information exclusively in English, in English. I saw that the regulation also prescribes a home language plus another one that is accepted, here is the appearance of our body, or in collaboration with HANF, decided to accept the brochure in English, perhaps we should consider that option to be a mandatory brochure in Croatian, and then in English, if necessary, and if possible. We are familiar with brochures of the type of investment funds of companies that are.../incomprehensible/... on stock exchanges, as far as I know it will always be in Croatian, and then possibly if you still want to, on which side, in which foreign language. But I say here's what's been transferred from the regulation now whether or not it could have been insisted on mandatory Croatian, we may also hear from the representatives of the promoters in the final. And here's what I would say, given that this is the first establishment of general regulation in this area, probably as the practices and activities are spread and will in the future be further affected or further regulated or deregulated, so that in the years ahead I believe that the Croatian Parliament will also discuss future changes, changes and changes, but again I say it is good and this debate should actually look at the function of raising awareness of the possibility of joint, joint financing. Here, the HDZ Club of course supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82704	On behalf of the motionary, finally respected Secretary of State Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82705	I thank the esteemed Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, so as usual, I will look back at the presentations, a few questions that have been made and repeat this little bit now more freely in this final, more plastically depicting what again is going on. So, first of all, the objectives of this law of ours where we determine the mandatory application of the regulation, the competent authority, the cooperation between the competent authorities when we talk about HANFI and ESMI and the infringement provisions. Therefore, the main objective is just to open up opportunities for cross-border action of the joint financing platforms, and thereby to raise capital to a much greater number of investors while at the same time increasing legal certainty and maintaining a high level of investment protection. Most of all, companies, as we have heard here, which cannot be owed to the regular way that we are all used to, which is either through credit funds or do not want to guarantee private assets for a project that their company, craft means all forms of society are acceptable towards this kind of fundraising, along with those three basic, and not only financial interest, can be knowledge, it means to collect knowledge to get partners who know and who do so, if we are talking about a particular project and a particular activity or sounding through such a platform in terms of increasing the visibility of their own product, its own project, so a marketing aspect. It can be all three, it can be one of those three acceptable in such a way as it is acceptable not to minimise the risk, we can't do this this is more risky, but what is prescribed here is that investors, that they must be aware that the provider of the platform services must through a series of mandatory elements which must also put the brochure that they must also question, which must and verify the potentials of the investor into the risks. Of course, there is also the responsibility for compensation, so these investors have the right to claim compensation for damages from the project owner if he has wrongly, incorrectly placed even from the service provider if he had to or could have known at the beginning, and not with any attention, he removed or warned the business owner and put something at all. Of course, when that information goes to HANFA, it's still seven days early, it has to go to HANFA as one other step in that security it has the right to check. What we are doing here at EU level, in fact, is also a respected representative, Lalovac, who has commented all the time, and I am also saying that the esteemed representative Brumnic is therefore increasing the possibility of investment, the possibility of raising funds to increase economic activity. Is it through those funds, through the securitisation we talked about, UCITS funds, AIF therefore alternative investment funds how to make people who have money, especially now that inflation reduces their value can invest somewhere and thus boost the economy. But just on this basis, looking out for safety and notifying the risk of it. There is no 100% security anywhere, of course when we talk about this kind of vision, especially this kind of investment. As far as certain questions are concerned, therefore the esteemed representative Lalovac and representative Begonja mentioned, and I believe that MP Brumnic also mentioned about the protection itself as to how the investor is protected. So we talked about this brochure, it's an obligation to prepare for each product, for each project owner, it's known exactly by the regulation what this brochure must contain. I said according to an article. 18th and 19th of this final proposal, all investors have the right to compensation for damages. The threshold for the total value of the offers, therefore it cannot go to the unconscious as it is said, so that is the 5m euro within 12 months the individual owner of the project cannot raise more than that. It is also prescribed for business policy providers, so where the principles of professionalism, justice, transparency are to be represented, we have this categorization to sophisticated and not sophisticated clients. There is a respected representative Brumnic said disabling, no, the platform will not disable it, she has an obligation to instruct him if she recognises that it is in accordance with Article. The 21st century 6th century. If it recognises it, it is part of the non-sophisticated part, if it invests out of a thousand euros or more than 5% of its assets, and it must inform those who invest more than 10% of their risks and guide them. This is the part of the obligations that we state, not forbidden, of course, but directed them, especially for that part just to introduce them in all kinds of loss and risk of investment itself and that there are no investment protection mechanisms in terms of overall loss, etc. As far as these cross-borders are concerned, that's where national legislation is referred as it is today. You arrange for an investor or someone who will be entered into your ownership share then it is resolved, not to come here to the public notary but exists among the notary, publicised cooperation at EU level in which it can be done very much without contact or without physical entry into the country itself. So we recognise the certificates of public notebooks of other EU members as well as those of our own. A number of others mean as far as the regulation itself is concerned where investment protection is concerned, this is the whole of Chapter 4 of Article 4. The 19th address on customer information is also an obligation to notify at a more frequent level of default. It means that the service provider must keep records and publicly disclose the status of previous projects that have succeeded. Someone didn't meet the obligation, someone paid something, didn't make it just run so-called. whether it is a blacklist or whatever, but that part of the information as individual projects have passed, whether contracts have been concluded because there is another additional protection there is that when you accept a larger offer to invest, you have invested either a certain amount as a loan or a certain amount as you have another four days. as your kind of pre-contract to give up or that in those four days if you find out that the documents are coming you can still give up, it's called a pre-contractual period of consideration. So, a lot of things have been done, of course, that maybe a little can slow down the process and make it more expensive to some extent, but of course there is this advertising board that offers this secondary market of financing especially to loans, but certainly extends to us to the EU and all members of the possibility of collecting funds. To return to that beginning that our startup with a good business idea that does not want to pawn its own house, its own personal debt to its own company, can raise funds for further development whether to advertise yet, whether to acquire some qualified, sophisticated investors or people who are engaged in the same part. As regards crypto currency, what is said in the preamble itself that the initial offers related to crypto currencies have the potential to finance SMEs, however, they may speed up technology transfer but, by their features, differ significantly from the services of joint financing governed by this Regulation. So it's also recognized by this regulation and that possibility, but it's another pair of shoes that would be said in our case. So, the management of loans, the esteemed representative Brumnic, has well detected it, so you can once you loan someone money to pass on to this service provider that he manages the loan. What does it mean to manage the loan? It's usually someone's got to administer, interest, charge, keep records, etc., as well as what credit institutions themselves do by sending notices, etc., so that platform can also be the part where we talk about that particular additional secondary, secondary market. So, more or less, as far as the honourable representative is concerned, I still have a duty to say about the language, so it can go in any language to the official EU but it must be either English or Croatian. Why? Because that's where we gave ourselves the opportunity for the project owner to recognise his market immediately. If he wants to go to the outside market to give me more, some additional costs and additional publications to print bilingualism if he doesn't want it because he wants to focus on the outside market and just wants to go to English. Also, if he wants to go to the Croatian market alone, we will not make him work twice as hard to get into additional costs, it is for this reason that the HANF can decide and accept to go to any other language because someone may directly target the Czech market and want to have a brochure in the Czech Republic because they have related companies and he does not care about the Croatian investor, which does not mean that someone cannot and he himself determines the type in which he wants to go. It's left to the very one who wants to raise funds. Here, I think I've more or less covered all of that from your discussions. So, ultimately absolutely this does not mean that we are introducing this and allowing this regulation to be implemented now suddenly overnight, but that through a smart way of working, setting up and these existing platforms that I have listed 6, 2 which work in Croatia which are small amounts can now get much more traffic through a certain promotion, a much bigger story especially because it registers centrally through the ESME and has this register and the service providers themselves and the possibility of coming to, to investors across Europe, and thus absolutely increase the part. So, in particular, someone from Germany can finance some start-up project in Croatia with information that sees that it is good at the level because only a few thousand Euros, and 500 million people can certainly find those who have made more advances than in Croatia, but also what the distinguished representative Brumnic said to our investors, our companies or our citizens can first and foremost search other projects in, to, on other platforms across Europe. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82706	Here, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So one issue related to investor protection, it states here that protection of investors on a joint financing platform is ensured through the obligation of providers of joint financing to test the investor's knowledge and to categorize it. Now I'm interested, so these service providers will test, and now I'm wondering if it'll be under control to test you under HANCE whether they'll approve those tests etc., because yet he here, here he shares it to an investor who can carry the risk and one who can't bear the risk. So here we call it sophisticated or not sophisticated because it's already this section is what it means, whether these tests will still be controlled and supervised by the HANFA regulator and approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82708	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82709	Thank you. This has been settled in Article 20, this issue is regulated by Article 21 of the Regulation when we talk about an entry check of knowledge and simulation of the ability to submit losses. So, de facto it's 2 things that every provider has to check whether a person who's willing to invest especially when crossing those thresholds that I've listed under those thresholds doesn't have to do anything, but above just to check that he understands, that he's familiar with the risks, that he has history to indicate some reference list that he's previously dealt with, that he simply sorts it out and does that check list. They must inform the regulator of the implemented.../incomprehensible/... but not to coordinate their action to tell them what to do, but they must, the HANFA monitors whether they just did it, prescribed that they must. So there are those thresholds like we said about 10% of the value of the assets based on different information. Also all.../incomprehensible/... 5% of their assets must also carry out this testing, but also a warning of all risks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82710	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82711	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State would only continue on that replica I initially gave you that the market situation is still too small for us. We were talking about potential, I'm sure there's potential, but somehow I have the impression that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are still not well-informed enough. It's because we now have regulation because we are in line with the regulation, but I think we should inform entrepreneurs a little bit more because many people don't even know what the possibilities are. So since they come from different sectors, I think that there should be some kind of initial touch to give and inform entrepreneurs about the opportunities that exist because these platforms that work in Croatia as we have said there are several. There are some for the energy market and for some cultural projects, etc., but surely there are potentials there and for more than just this IT sector that you said. So I think there should be inter-minister and inter-resorial cooperation to move entrepreneurs a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82712	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82713	Thank you. It's always a question that many times appears here about self-information and generally what is our obligation is financial literacy. As far as this possibility is concerned, there's such a slippery terrain that we as a state with our authority point someone at something and then that one loses on it, then did we contribute to it that the Ministry said what came from the ministry and said that you could do it, and I went and lost. And on that side, we're a little bit on one field, and I'd rather go to this part of the financial literacy if everyone got information, and I agree, that's exactly why we're just making it clear because what we have is these six loans, the two owners who acted, it's pretty modest, we have some data even about 9, 10 companies that are being funded, but it's really not at the level of what's the potential of this. So far, it couldn't have happened, but now with this regulation, we're sure we'll make sure to put it somewhere available and by way of a chamber, let's say the economics that could take it really...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82714	The next replica is the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82715	Thank you very much, Vice President. Just one more explanation for the public. So, individual investors participating in joint financing, they come from their role as a particular interest, a certain profit, but what is the tax treatment of these particular investors? The joint investor is an institution that is then subject to the laws and income tax, and what does that mean for a small investor who invests in his thousand, two, five thousand euros?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82716	So it's regulated as well as let's say what our people might understand as well as the tax that you pay on the dividends' contribution today or on contributions from the equity stakes so payouts if you have, so here are two options. So, tax rates you know that we've reduced to 10%, and then the cut, I think that the tax aspect is something that's here and the favorite investment is at least with us, of course always double when we come to the public or here we talk when we cut the profit tax rate, then we guess as investors, especially foreigners, to get money out of Croatia. On the other hand, if he's tall, and you're not working hard enough to attract these investors, then always two sides of the medals to be reconciled. Surely at least me personally and we're here on the other one to encourage that investment, and in such a way that the worst when money stands and does nothing else, you lose the most and more than that tax on that profit that you can possibly make.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82717	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82718	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm going to get a little attached to what my colleague said and then you answered. The task should not be to direct someone to invest, but it should be to educate citizens and the economy as to financial literacy as to how it can be done and what risks await them. If we are, and now another thing I said in my speech, this crypto market blockchain technology is something that today is reality. You practically by answering the de facto closing your eyes over that space, and I think it should be much clearer to step into that space and enable it, a man would say in a transparent way. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82719	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82720	Thank you. So, I'm not closing my eyes, so HANFA is leading supervision of the Crypto currency issue and I think they even came to 3 billion kuna in a year that is estimated to be a market for crypto currency in Croatia, so it's not small, but this is just another aspect of the kind of investment from the blockchain technology itself that diversifies actually and that allows those of one conventional lending or investment into the property shares of certain companies to collect money or what I said the promotion does or collect the knowledge of other potential partners. So, yes, this krypto currency issue that is now being resolved and at EU level in a way that will make the market even bigger, but with this I believe, of course, with our part and with these discussions, but first and foremost, in financial literacy, we have a lot of work ahead of us to direct citizens into their ability to get their money more... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82721	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've completely exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82723	Let us go to the next point, that is - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the HRT Supervisory Board and - Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the HRT Supervisory Board The act is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media on the basis of Article. 22. HRT law. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media Natalija Martincevic to explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82724	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the HRT Supervisory Board is resolved because of the end of the term of office of Mladen Cutura, Maja Martinovic, Morana Pavlovic Gruden. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. Mladen Kutura, Maja Martinovic, Morana Pavlovic Gruden were appointed members of the HRT Supervisory Board. At the 23rd meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media held on 8 December 2021. It has been proposed that members of the Croatian Supervisory Board Mladen Cutura, Maja Martinovic and Morana Pavlikovic Gruden be relieved due to the end of the term of office. After the hearing, the Committee shall be in accordance with Article. 2nd century. 1st century. The Croatian Law of 7 votes to establish this proposal with an explanation that I am submitting to HS. The proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the HRT Supervisory Board is named Zoran Barac, Marko Primorac, Damir Rudes. Reason, Information, Information and Media Committee at its 20th session held on 29 October 2021 launched for the appointment of three members of the Croatian Supervisory Board for the end of the term of office of three members of the Supervisory Board and on 3 November 2021. published an invitation to tender for the selection of three members in the NN and on HS's website. At the 22nd session held on 3 December 2021, the Committee discussed all the applications received and established a list of candidates eligible for the selection of three members of the HRT Supervisory Board under the prescribed Law on HRT and the invitations to tender for 11 candidates and a list published on HS's website. At its 23rd session held on 8 December 2021. The Committee on Information, Information and Media has conducted the debate and in accordance with Article. 2nd century. 1st century. The HRT Act, unanimously with 7 votes, decided to propose to the HS the appointment of Zoran Barac, Marko Primorac, Damir Rudes for members of the HRT Supervisory Board and set out this proposal for a decision with an explanation submitted to HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82725	Thank you. We're opening a debate. The first to discuss was reported by the HDZ Representatives' Club on their behalf, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82726	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll spend a few minutes on these two decisions. You've heard the chronological developments on the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I'm only going to go a little bit deeper into this whole story about the resolution of three members of the HRT Supervisory Board to which he has appointed the mandate and appointment of three new members of the HRT Supervisory Board. 12 candidates arrived, of those 12 11 applications were valid and in the first session of the board when we were even discussing the candidates that arrived on this public invitation we realized that one candidacy did not satisfy what the public invitation asked for, and that was the VSS. It was about a candidate who had a VSS and he was later out of competition for the election. What might be important to highlight here, and I will be very clear and concrete, there have been different practices that have been applied in HS or on the Media Committee itself, and that was a scratch that some in some of the former conferences conducted interviews with candidates. And somewhere there was practice that there were interviews for candidates who competed for a seat on the HRT Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, it was practice that it wasn't. Our secretary of the board of Mrs. Vlasta has prepared a chronological demonstration of what has been happening and here I from this speaker can make it clear on behalf of the members of the HDZ board and our coalition partners that on the next Media Committee we will propose that from now on, practice must be to interview all candidates whether they are competing for a member of the Supervisory Board or the Programme Council to be introduced as a permanent practice of our committee to conduct interviews and each of the board members will have the right to ask any candidate who is competing for that place a question he wants. And I think it's just and just in that way and we see people running and according to what we estimate we can make a relevant decision. This will be our proposal at the next session of the Media Committee. You have heard from the presentation of the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, which are three members who have suspended the mandate on the Supervisory Board and three of the members we propose. The résumés we received from all of these candidates can be read and read that it is people who meet the conditions of a public call, i.e. that one part of the candidates has great experience in legal affairs, the other part of the candidates has great experience in economic affairs. This is very important for the work of the HRT Supervisory Board. We're deciding for these three members it's Dr.sc. Zoran Barac, Dr. Sc. Marko Primorac of Mr. Damir Rudesh, that's three candidates proposed by HDZ with its coalition partners. The board has made a decision with 7 votes in favour. I must say I was sorry that the other board members had left the session, but that was their assessment at that time that it might be best to do. I hope that these members we will select from the HRT Supervisory Board will make an important contribution to making HRT the public service that Croatian citizens want. We recently appointed a new director of HRT, I think a new opportunity for HRT to show that the public service of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the Supervisory Board as someone to control what is going on in the financial part of the spending on HRT, and let's be honest, we have almost 1.3 billion kunas that are mostly expensive from the RTV subscription, one smaller part of that commercial part. These members can therefore make a good contribution to the work of the Supervisory Board. Let's be honest, and I will admit from this pay phone that we, as members of the Media Committee, were not satisfied with all those people who sat on the HRT Supervisory Board, were particularly shown in the section when we appointed the head director of HRT. At two sessions of our committee, the chairman of the Supervisory Board was invited, he did not respond to any session, and I believe that this way by selecting new people, you know that under the Law on HRT, the Supervisory Board among its members will elect the chairman of the Supervisory Board. Who in this next meeting will be not our duty, it is our duty that these three members become an integral part of the Supervisory Board and thus give wind in the back of the work of the public service of the HRT. Here, therefore, on behalf of the HDZ, I propose our club to be members of the Supervisory Board, they are already appointed as Dr.sc. Zoran Barac, Dr. Sc. Marco Primorac and Damir Rudesh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82727	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82728	Thank you, Vice President. The colleagues and colleagues of the HRT Supervisory Board who are due tomorrow will have the ruling majority as we have just heard it, but those members have been loyally resolved, let me apologize, so you will tomorrow, you will be voting tomorrow, and they will be held to debate today, and we are sure that they should have been replaced long ago. And it should be replaced because, in the 4 years of their term of office, they have done absolutely nothing to prevent the systematic shagging of employees by the principal director, by individual directors of business units and by the editor-in-chief of the information media service. They had to be removed because they did not initiate the procedure for the replacement of former CEO Bacic. They had countless reasons and leads for that shift. First and most important, Kazimir Bačić was the director of HRT from 2017 to July 2021. All the time, his terrible reign with Prisavl failed to convince the Supervisory Board and the programme council to adopt its business and development strategy for HRT. The same was required under the Croatian Statute to give consent to the Supervisory Board during the first year of its term of office. Why has the current Supervisory Board not replaced him because of this statutory failure from February 2018 until June 2021 when he was arrested. Let us only remember that in 2018, in 2019, the media space burned the charges of journalists who accused HRT of censorship as well as complaints of injury to honor and reputation of HRT by the honorable and respected principal Bačić, who spent more than 3 months in the investigative prison because he was charged with corruption. Let's just remind ourselves, the lawsuits against Hrvoje Zovka, so many lawsuits that he won the award as Europe's saddest journalist, and that's the only one in public service, on public television, everyone else is in private. Sanja Miklausevic Pavić, representative of the Croatian Journalist Society's HND branch at HRT, together asked for half a million kuna to sue them along with the HND. Another example, let us remember journalist Zoran Pehar who was public when Bačić and the team said there was no censorship that it was, and then he mentioned how the MUP sent a letter to HRT complaining about the Cup that he had asked a series of questions on migration over a period of 19 months, but that he did not publish the contributions. As a result, Bačić received an invitation to talk and to defend himself before cancelling a contract on work conditioned by the crooked behaviour of the workers. Among the questions the Cup was certainly asking the MUP were the questions to which the answers were necessary to contribute on the circumstances of the death of Madonna Hussiny, a migrant girl. That contribution as far as the Cup knows and.../incomprehensible/... has never been published. The lawsuit for that is all, that's what we talked about, that topic was here on the agenda. Now imagine the situation that the British MUP is writing a letter to the BBC complaining that their journalist is asking questions. What would be the reaction of public television and the British public? In Croatia, it ends with HRT director wanting to quit the journalist. The Cup is of course I left this HRT as well as numerous of his colleagues and fellow journalists and journalists. The honorary and reputation defender of HRT Bačić spent more than 3 months in a prison of investigation this summer because he was charged with corruption, so good reason why this supervisory board did not seek his persecution for harming the reputation of HRT when he returned to work in mid-October eight. The disaster management of HRT from the last management is difficult to imagine, but with the support of the supervisory board's leadership, which you are now ruling the last day, tomorrow is the last day you resolve. Be careful, not even sexual abuse by the director of the business unit Business of Stipic, which was reported by the journalist and for whom Bacic declared himself authorised, and he personally investigated the case in the end, Bacic forced the journalist to face his abuser. It is contrary to the protocol on the conduct in the case of sexual violence adopted by this House. In this way, the suspect in the act of sexual harassment allowed him to enjoy the sense of power, domination, and the victim of sexual violence exposed unnecessary feelings of shame, impotence, and vulnerability. The ruling majority is now setting up new three members of the Supervisory Board, of course only men, there is no birth parity. They will protect the new HDZ chief director, at the same time directly inform the prime minister, and all this is a continuation of the farce we watched with the election of the new director-in-chief of Schweb, let's remember. In the election of a new HDZ director, he did not allow, but not a millimeter of movement towards democracy, according to honesty, according to the choice of a man without a stain, without a burden. You chose a manager who had already been in conflict of interest in advance, and in his program he did not even show in the interview, but no plan to save HRT, and now in this election, the HDZ Supervisory Board has definitely decided to nail that series. At the time of the election, the directors had at least given talks with the candidates, and here we have now heard from colleagues Ivanovic that in the future they will give the board to talk, but now they have concluded that it is not good because, in the conversation with the director's candidates, they may have concluded that they are naked, as they have shown their shame, they have decided mainly now to push their three controllers into the supervisory board without any conversations. They wouldn't let us hear them. They wouldn't let us do any interviews. HDZ media expert Mario Kapulica pulled them all out of a hat with the assistance of a coalition partner, Hrebak, who loves the basement so much in transparency. He didn't care about anything this time. He had enough to have the Hood tell him they were great. But the media has already announced for one that it is directly connected to Katičić and Plenkovic. Were we expecting anything different? The circle of control on HRT is closing and everything is, of course, under HDZ's paw again. And yes, that's something to be yelled about because when they see their results for the record, black on white, this is HDZ TV, this is Plenkovic's television.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82729	Next is a debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, respected Vice President Miroslav Škoro. He's gone, he's losing his right. Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82730	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues on the left, dear colleagues on the right. My colleagues on the right came out here today for a pay phone and said they'd be honest from the future. He won't now. I wish my colleague Ivanovic had told me what he and his colleagues had told me on the committee, how I acted when I asked to have a conversation with the candidates, to perform a circus, that it was unnecessary, that it doesn't make sense, and then he came to this pay phone and said from the next time we're going to have talks, we want to see who the candidates are. Do you know why this rests as you behave? On the eternal but literally eternal desire of HDZ to rule the media in Croatia, this is a key problem. All what counterpart Matula was saying, citing examples, is the product of nothing else, the product of the eternal desire of HDZ to rule the media and to make it impossible for these media to carry out their social task. And their social task by saying about all the media is to report to the public what's going on. Which is the task of the public media, this media that you have imposed on the director of your time, and where today I will wait for a colleague from HDZ to finish his internal debate. Thank you. From this eternal desire to rule you destroy public service. That public service that used to be a feather shop in Croatia, which was recognised outside, where people spoke and we would like to have this kind of television. Today we have what, a television that the press won't work on. It's amazing to me that we have a public television that you can't find out what happened in Croatia today, a public television on which no social problem has been dealt with at the time it happened, but if it has to be processed already if all the other media are writing and talking about it for weeks or months, then after the month someone mentions that something was and it's a shame. And about this very source, the election of the Supervisory Board, I've asked for the president in my time to be replaced, as my colleague Matula said, so I'm told we can't replace them, that they're now due to the term of office. We turn out we can't do anything, anything HDZ can do. And I ask you colleagues on the right do you think what you're doing is right and right? What's worse is you know it's not right and try to get the public's eyes dirty. You're going to vote tomorrow on three members of the supervisory board that you've arranged somewhere, and no one from the center and the left has ever seen them. I was told on the board of directors so I'd like to call people and have a word with them on the phone if I'm interested. Well, I'm not there to lobby for someone, to introduce myself to someone, but to try and see what would be best for public television. That this public television becomes the service of all citizens of this country just as this government should be the government of all citizens of this country, not just the HDZ. And what else do you say? What we once called the cathedral of the spirit, HDZ was able to turn into a swamp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82731	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82732	It's always good to end up with some metaphor and swamp, and what my colleague Matula said was HDZ TV and Plenkovic's TV. There used to be a joke about how a diary starts in some of these countries, mostly the eastern bloc, and sometimes they mention Yugoslavia, say good evening Mr. President or Comrade President as it was. Well, that way, there's a certain danger that you could re-start the log at least this central one. If that were the case, there's an interesting figure from the last inaugural, as you're probably familiar with the current one first asks the MP and then answers the prime minister and then the representative makes a comment. And when HRT interprets this as an acute, then it's the Prime Minister's last and so every time. It's an interesting, interesting figure that can give us a picture of the situation now I wouldn't tell my colleague Matula about the whole, for the whole collective, let's just stick to the information program. This documentary, film, drama, I don't know about fun, music, sports, and it's been taken from them by more cable, but there are still some.../incomprehensible/... and it's not usually that much under the influence of daily politics. And it's informative because they have to produce something every day. They even have this HRT4 channel that slept neatly to occupy the pay phone by opposition MPs when it was a topic I think HRT. Now, we're choosing three members of the board of directors, and it's only a matter of time before they've been out of town to meet them. The first is Mr. Barac, obviously it is a verified staff because he is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Airlines, as well as the Supervisory Board of Croatian Insurance. This is his fourth or maybe even fifth supervisory board because there are some private companies I wouldn't like to advertise right now. But what maybe, which might qualify him as HRT's Supervisory Board, is that the president of the Croatian Wushu Union, Google helps him, so it's one Chinese martial arts, not this is not an Olympic sport, but this one is worth writing down. The other is Mr. Primorac. He has a little more senior experience, he was an advisor to the president for the economy, now he has these advisors and advisers, but he wasn't too much, at least he wasn't overly publicly exposed in this period, but he has two interesting cartoons in his résumé. He's the first member of the HZMO Management Board, so he's not unknown to the HDZ government's staff crusade when he needs to go to these interesting places and one of these cheekbones, cake on cake,.../incomprehensible/... Croatian lottery. Croatian lottery, is the director in prison, what happened to her at the moment, in custody? So that's not exactly what he's into, either, so that's not a very good point in his résumé to brag about, but good. The third member was Mr. Rudez, he had the most, he had the smallest, least page of the résumé attached, even it would have been said that he had been neglected so far. So, just the administrative council of KBC Zagreb, which is not, could be better. However, there are two of these, there is another interesting cartoon in the résumé, it is actively speaking Hungarian, perhaps that you put Ines in the supervisory board to better deal with these MOLs, I ask that this human injustice be corrected. Now that Vangelic, is he in INA? And what of course does not appear in the résumé, and most interestingly, it should be written that he was the business partner of today's HDZ secretary-general. I think it's okay, and these three colleagues are three candidates for the HRT Supervisory Board, the ruling majority should definitely be supported. I hope that during my speech, someone from the SDSS will report for discussion. In fact, they are in the field of giving, in the vote on the president of the HRT Board they provide conditional support and their votes have selected the director of HRT, the director-in-chief here to be precise, and today when it comes to the Supervisory Board there is no telling us whether the conditions of their conditional support have been met because this would in many ways illustrate the situation in the ruling majority. So, it is good that Col. Ivanovic described the circumstances and way of adopting this proposal in such a transparent way, it is good that his colleague Brumnic further entrenched it with these things that we haven't heard from his colleague Ivanovic about wanting to do a riot show, a circus with these talks, but it is not good that members of the board of directors of public television are choosing from on the proposal of the ruling majority, even it seems to me that it wasn't even the case in our time that they were all from the ruling majority. I think at that time Radeljić was a member of the supervisory board when he left. In short, these three board members won't be able to break down a lot on HRT because there's not much space to spoil in this sense. It's hard indeed in the competition of the former principal who ended up in prison which he himself described as an annual vacation, you see the situation there, when a man goes to prison says he's on vacation, he gets so tired there. And on the other hand, they won't be able to fix much, because we don't know them that I don't insult them, I don't think they're in an apartment, and even if they are able to, I don't think they have political permission or there's no political will to fix it there. So, on Prisavlje nothing new, the new three board members with old politics and what to say, watch this sports program, drama program, film program, entertainment program, documentary program I hope I won't skip someone, and when the information program has enough other TV stations that you can turn around and hope you have batteries in the remote control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82733	Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82734	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps only a few things are done by the Croatian public here to interpret to the end, not by discussing any of the speakers before me, it is absolutely their right to say what is important. As a member of the Media Committee, I was present at all the meetings and in the election of the Chief Director of HRT and these sessions when it comes to the selection of three members of the Supervisory Board. The HRT Supervisory Board has five members and only a proposal of what Mr. Bauk said to one member of the Supervisory Board is from the opposition if that can be said, is one member of the Supervisory Board in front of the employees, and these three members are elected today. When I said there was going to be practice, and I can confirm here the colleagues sitting here with me at the press committee session that we're going to be doing interviews, nowhere in the HRT Act explicit doesn't say that interviews have to be conducted. Article 22 clearly provides for the selection procedure of members of the HRT Supervisory Board and we stick to it. I say the practice was even, there was a time when the candidates were invited to interviews and then all the candidates who were on the interview were selected by the one who wasn't on the interview. Therefore, there have been uneven practices, and I now believe that the time is and the chairman here is the committee agreeing with this and all the board members that from now on, and from now on, the members of the programming board and the supervisory board, we choose this way, but by giving them the opportunity to in some five-minute, ten-minute self-exposure. I would not agree with my colleague Matul that HRT is some kind of HDZ television, I follow HRT programs all as much as I can and would not agree with it, but of course sound will probably echo well in the media, there will be a statement and there I would say the subjective opinion of each of us and individually. As for his colleague Brumnic, he exhibited on the basis of what he was a member of the board and spoke on the board. I wouldn't drag Mr. Hrebak, Katičić, anyone else into this story, this was the position of the board in which we have the majority coalition partners, we have chosen out of 11 legitimate candidates three of whom we think are the best and there I see nothing absolutely illegal or illegal or anything that has been made past the legal procedure, and here I think we have made a good choice by the résumés of the candidates that we have, or the candidacy we have received. Of course, HRT is an interesting topic, it'll always be an interesting topic, there's no speech. I also spoke of HRT's well-being in the selection of head director, and I believe that HRT as a public service of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia must be what it may be, as some before me have said, about it at some point behind us. I hope that the new director will reach those standards he wrote in his programme with his moves, his plan and the HRT management programme, which is why he has received HS's trust, the Supervisory Board as a supervisory body of finance and HRT's assets must be at a higher level, and I will agree with each of my predecessors who said that individuals from the previous Board of Supervisors were not at the level expected by the Croatian Parliament, so they are no longer members of the Supervisory Board. So, here's a story that started a few months ago, I hope it works, that the public service of HRT will become an example of public service, not only here, but in this entire environment, we used to be a role model. Others, let's try [[Intruder: Time.]] And I hope that's the way it's gonna be. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82735	We have several replicas, the first respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82736	Dear colleague Ivanovic. To whom the HRT under your control will become a leader or synonym, probably only to the Wolf. It's hardly anyone else in the environment. And when you talk about procedure and law, then you have to make it clear that the procedure for choosing.../incomprehensible/... The Board of Supervisors determines the caller, which is the Committee on Information, Information and Media, which is us. On that committee, not elsewhere, I suggested we have a conversation. The ruling majority in which HDZ is, and you said not to mention it, so we'll say Mr. transparent, they refused to do it. They voted not to do it. I don't know what the Croatian people don't understand, what you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82737	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82738	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Here, I'll do it again. You yourself were present when we made sure that these unequal practices were being pushed through some other elections, I made it clear here, and we are standing there from now on, so here's what you suggested on that board is going to be the Committee's practice in future action, I think it's fair, that it's okay and that it will bring and contribute to making the choice more transparent than it might be now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82739	Next replica, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82740	Thank you. If it doesn't turn out that we're just criticizing it, I have to commend the Media Committee because this time the Constitution Committee wasn't canceling your session, it's progress, so it's not all so gray. But here I would say a little word, two words about the Institute of Public Call. So in my understanding of what you have explained to me, here you should select three members of the Supervisory Board who will represent the parliamentary majority because one member, the current, the Supervisory Board is an opposition, one member representing the employees. So maybe the conditions of the contest are to put it to be a member representing the ruling majority, since we already have customs. So I don't think this requires a public call, to cut short, as well as for the President of the Supreme Court, for the chief state attorney who herself admitted to me in the House that she spoke to the Minister of Justice, and in that sense it would be much more transparent and more transparent to simply accept this as a proposal from the ruling majority for 3 members and that That's how it is. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82741	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82742	Thank you. Thank you very much. For the time being, the Law on HRT clearly states in its article how members of the Supervisory Board are elected, until this article is changed, the Committee will act in accordance with the Law and I do not think it was wrong in its procedure, with this observation that from now on, all members, or all candidates running for any place, will be given an opportunity to conduct interviews with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82743	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82744	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 238, my colleague Arsen hurt my feelings by bringing here what he had done to the Committee on Statutes, and not by the end, the Committee on Statutes has declared itself incompetent in this matter, as has the Committee on Legislatives. There is practically no one in this House who could interpret what is fair, how should act when you have a public tender, unless it is done in the centre of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82745	I can't get into your feelings and how hurt they are, but you hurt the Rules of Procedure and then you get a warning. The next replica, respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82746	Thank you, Chairman. A colleague of Ivanovic, therefore, really made this HDZ cartoon from the state as it does from every public tender. You say well that it would be fair to conduct a public hearing of candidates. At the same time, you admit that no such hearing has been held here, so can you at least admit that it's not fair? And also, if you say from now on, the possibility of, well, asking candidates some questions, I must say, not holding water. So from now on, it would mean that you've done the same thing in this case, and you haven't. And I will rely on what my colleague Brumnic said, he says, which is not clear to the citizens here. Well, I think that it's all clear to the citizens here, but it should be pointed out once again, when the positions in HRT are being placed exclusively by the ruling people, and the ruling government only gets power based on 16.4% voter support, it's not power, it's not legitimate authority, it's occupation. The occupation of institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82747	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82748	Well, Reverend Representative Oreshkovic, here's another one, if you're a little bit, and try a little bit, as you say today and Google it or we'll give you the record that we have and we got it as members of the Committee, that the practice wasn't and it really wasn't in the Law anywhere. So it wasn't practice. We've acted in accordance with the practice that was until then, we're going to change that part and I really don't see any problem at all. Nor has the law been broken, and the fact that what hurts you most is that HDZ won, we will not solve it with replications, violations of the Rules of Procedure, so we have to go to elections and we have to get the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and then become a position in the HS and we get an opportunity to put the government together, another way doesn't exist for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82749	We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82750	The Honorable Chairman, a colleague, Ivanovic, injured an article. 238 insulting all the MPs here talking about the law. I've made it clear in the replica that the Committee is determining the procedure. On that committee, you banned an interview. Nothing more. What are you talking about the law? The law has made it possible for you. You're the ones who banned it. You had a legitimate proposal, you voted most of it so you wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82751	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a second warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Andro Krstulović Opar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82752	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Brumnic has deceived all of us and made a mistake by way of an article. 238. He has here made it completely false that members of the majority in the Media and Information Committee have banned something from anyone. That's not true at all, and I'm asking for that kind of thing to be recorded here. There were no bans, however, council members left the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82753	Time. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82754	Your Honor, thank you. He's been injured. 238, a colleague of Opara, unfortunately, offends us MPs who were all present at that Committee session, which clearly concluded that they would not invite candidates to the talks, which they were allowed in case the Committee was otherwise manifested, so that a colleague Brumnic rightly raised an injury to the Rules of Procedure and I do not see why my colleague Opara was called here to give us lessons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82755	Okay. And you've had no harm done by the Rules of Procedure, and you're being warned. Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82756	Dear colleague Ivanovic. I've already told you a lot in our personal conversations, and now I'm going to ask you something else. Since we haven't had a chance to talk to the candidates, since we haven't had a chance to meet these candidates, and since the Supervisory Board has to implement decisions, or to make proposals for those it receives from the Assembly, in this case there is no Assembly, there is a founder, I ask you to pass on information to us, which views will be represented by members of the Supervisory Board with which you have spoken, and we do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82757	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82758	I personally did not speak to any member, or any candidate, who responded to a public call. Our club of representatives looked and examined the life of all candidates and decided to propose these three candidates to the HRT Supervisory Board. When we have a session where we're going to give the candidates a chance to talk about themselves, we can talk about it that way, but I think that's basically the democratic right of us. It is a democratic right for us sitting on the Committee, and I am sorry that none of you have proposed any candidate, you have left the Committee's session. This was our proposal, and I don't see what he's illegal, untransparent, or anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82759	Next replica, the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82760	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Ivanovic, you say there is no need to mention, say, a colleague of Katičić. However, counterpart Katičić entered politics, but gunningly, at a very high, responsible position of HDZ Secretary-General, as a personal friend, as he himself told the media, 35 years ago, means a man of the closest prime minister's trust because apparently he did not find someone so close to you to pass it on to him, this trust is now coming to the HRT Supervisory Committee, Damir Rudes, a business partner, a man from the same law society, from Katičić, meaning again the person of the nearest trust. Yes, there are creative people on HRT, but that way of management and leadership is actually choking them all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82761	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82762	Thank you very much. Kronoslav Katičić, as chief secretary of HDZ, was elected by the procedure that HDZ is conducting, I see no problem at all mentioning Krona Katičić as the chief secretary of HDZ and mixing it with the choice of these people we are discussing here today. You've made your point, I respect it, I appreciate it, that's what you think, we've brought out something else. Most will decide who will be the new 3 members of the HRT Supervisory Board and I think it is the only proper democratic procedure to be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82763	followed by a replica of respected MPs Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82764	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Ivanovic, you have been in the media for a long time, and I believe that you will simply know what the role of media politics is? Looking at, for example, countries in the environment, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, so, developed countries, everything goes on the line. The profession is a priority. In Croatia, in fact, institutions are deeply politicised and when the policy is proposed, the profession must ultimately listen to politics, and their professional value then falls into another plan. Can you explain in a simple way what the role of politics is, here, specifically in the HRT Supervisory Board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82765	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82766	So the role of politics in the selection of the HRT Supervisory Board is so much that the HRT Act clearly prescribes the way in which members of the Supervisory Board, the Programme Council and the Director-General are elected. We held a serious debate this summer about the election of the Chief Director, where we, our pledge whether we go back to the 2012 law where HS will not choose the head director of HRT, but will do so by the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board and that is something to work on. I personally don't have any political influence on television. I do a very different job on television, and the impact can be reduced in such a way as to change some legal provisions that are currently in force and we only have the right to respect them and thus keep the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82767	Next is the replica, Honored Representative Andro Krstulović Opara.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82768	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Ivanovic. You are a member of this committee, and here you have shown very, very clearly how discussions have taken place about what we are discussing today. I am interested, and I believe that the Croatian public is also interested in whether any proposal to elect a member of the Supervisory Board was made by the opposition at the committee's session? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82769	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82770	The board is very simple-no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82771	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82772	Good afternoon. Here, I'm glad you mentioned the Law on Croatian Television, so let's stick to the law. By law, it means Art. The 22nd century says that people elected to the Supervisory Board should have experience in the media. Can you explain to me how these people have experience in the media? When you say, well, if we don't do things right, you answer to your colleague, then we'll change it in laws. So I suggest you change the article. 22st century 2 because they obviously don't have to have experience in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82773	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82774	I'll take this part of yours when it comes to art. 2nd century. 2nd century. He doesn't explicitly say that they have to have experience, but he says they'll be taken care of. That's what it says in art. The 22nd century, therefore, is not a violation of the Law in that part when the hierarchical choice of some others calls upon the supervisory committees, it will be seen that this practice is not uniform everywhere, with this, I think we have not been wrong about the article. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Correct this so that from now on the candidates have the right to speak to the members of the Committee, I absolutely agree, I support, I will support, I will fight here, together with the president to practice it in some future elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82775	Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82776	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation regarding the media in Croatia is indeed clear to everyone except ruling politicians and media leaders. It may be a little unusual, but I'll compare it to one case that speaks of political blindness, which, of course, is always motivated by its own benefit and careerism. In postwar Germany, famous politician Hans Filbinger, who for more than 10 years ruled the economically very powerful province of Baden-Württemberg, known for its large systems such as Daimler Mercedes-Benz, had to resign because it was found to be a military judge on May 6th, 1945. made judgments based on Hitler's regulations, although Hitler committed suicide on April 30th. He defended himself by saying that no one had told him that these laws had been put out of force. We can say, humanity and common sense, but even his feelings of righteousness were not exactly his strong suit. These characteristics are dominated by leading political figures in Croatia, as well as those in the leadership of HRT. This applies to the former Supervisory Board which has done nothing, and the proposed members of the HRT Supervisory Board are the continuity of similarity. For example, a proposed member of Zoran Barac who, imagine, boasted that he was Director of Finance in Europapress Holding during Nina Pavic. For those forgetful in Croatia, Pavic is the extreme communist columnist who in the 1990s, under suspicious circumstances, became a media tycoon close to pseudo-dogist Ivić Pasalic. In 2000, on the wings of his real ally, Racan, he became almost a media monopoliest, leaving behind a financially burned country and hundreds of millions of kunas of dubiosis. For example, former Economy Minister Djuro Popiac paid more than 10 million kunas of tax money on several pages of the programme on the alleged intention of production of macaroni milk. Mr. Pavić could be seen, of course, on yachts with a certain Ivo Sanader, drinking buttocks of black wine at the level of the average Croatian salary. As I said, social sensitivity to our rulers is not a stronger side, so this Barac led the finances to Pavic, and today he is a member of the Supervisory Board of Croatia's insurance. Croatia's insurance we know is one of the most criminal privatisations in Croatia in the last 30 years. The person with these references is a guarantee of non-transparentity and further destruction of HRT. And HRT, HRT lives in its virtual world, for HRT e.g. There is no corruption in Croatia when justice issues are called on HRT only by former communist state lawyers who are the cause of today's situation in the judiciary starting from Ceda Svedovic to Ante Nobil. Calling Nobil on public television is a matter of political decency, this man openly advocates convicted murderers and celebrates totalitarian crimes, and Nobilo has marked problems with the transparency of his reported incomes and the wealth he publicly demonstrates. The only thing that's transparent about Nobil is his hatred of all Croatian. But for HRT, decent scientists, many of whom have been educated at world universities unsolicited, HRT is wanted by certain Hrvoje Klasic, author of the book of praises about the policy killer Mike Špiljko, who is engaged in his show by some Dimitrijevic from Belgrade, a person who wrote a book of praise about the mass murderer Ratko Mladic. The HRT features as the newly elected president of the Zagreb SDP, Viktor Gotovina, the person against whom HRT people filed a criminal report that during the time he was on the HRT Supervisory Board and while HRT was treated by scandalous South-Weaner Goran Radman inflicted hundreds of millions of kuna damage on HRT, the gentleman gets a space on HRT without being asked about this criminal application describing his harmful activity towards HRT. It's a professionality a la HRT. Let's get back to the start case from Germany. No one has told you from the ruling structures that almost no one believes your politics, you do not see that the vast majority of Croatian citizens and recognizes you as the main causes of injustice and corruption in the Croatian state, and that your main weapon in this injustice is this unprofessional, anti-democratic and anti-European HRT. But you won't be able to get away with ignorance because your anogic ignoring the facts doesn't mean that these facts don't exist. Be assured that you will be held accountable for your illegal activities and, of course, against the proposed members of the Supervisory Board because they are chosen from incompetent and similar and of course cannot produce any good results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82777	Here we have a few replicas, the first respected representative of the Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82778	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Vidovic Kristo. So, you've put out a very interesting string of names with very serious accusations, I believe your sources are credible but what I'm interested in, do you have any idea whether these names and objects are dealt with by our bodies that have been paid by taxpayers' money? Do you have any knowledge of whether there may be any reconnaissance or perhaps any charges brought for the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82779	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82780	Thank you, colleague Vukovac. You say believe me on my word, and I'm telling you don't believe you check it out just like the people of the ruling structures with entering a few letters into the search engine learns a lot, but they don't have to investigate it very well they know it and precisely for the reasons of this mutual integration, integration and commitment to Croatian taxpayers' money they make decisions that they make, name people who name and destroy Croatia's state and Croatian nation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82781	The next replica of the respected representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82782	Honorable MPs. It is indisputable that today's HTV furniture was selected by the ruling HDZ-led structure, but I was in this home a while ago saying that HTV should be divided in a way that the first program appoints the editor of the position, and the second programme that the editor appoints the opposition and thus would receive a cross-section of the entire Croatian and political tissues. However, it is interesting that my call has not been answered by this menu now right or left option or SDP which says that HDZ and SDP are actually working together on HRT, so I'm curious about what you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82783	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82784	So we can discuss various ways of forming HRT, but the HRT Act as it is today is not bad, but is not respected. To respect the Law on HRT then HRT could play its part, and the role of any public television in a democratic society is to impose the standard of media, namely the independence of the timely and complete true information of the Croatian public and the public as such and the action for the public, rather than for the narrow political or interest groups. If in HRT we had a public media that respected the law and did its duty then the rest of the media would be in Croatia far higher levels of professionalism because the public media imposes the standard. And when you have a public media that performs its role, then no other commercial media can spread fake news, it can work because no one will believe that they live on commercials, etc. So we have the collapse of HRT as a sign of the equality of the collapse of the entire media scene in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82785	And the last replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82786	Thank you. My colleague Kristo would disagree that the entire media scene in Croatia has been destroyed, but it is the HRT that should be a public service. And I think it's about time we really started to think and discuss what the best models would be for HRT management. It seems to me that as long as we have such structures that politics is actually dominantly chosen, so the position and opposition within HRT is being placed, we will have neither independence nor integrity nor timeliness of information, and the worst form, that is the one we have now, that is the form in which HDZ identifies HRT with its propaganda note. The information program of HRT absolutely no longer believes and if there is a medium that spreads disinformation then it is just an informative program of HRT. As long as the choice is based solely on party and party acquaintances, we can expect nothing from the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82787	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82788	Thank you for the replica of my colleague Oreskovic, I can only agree with you. As far as this first piece of your replica is concerned, I was saying that the media scene is collapsing based on the destruction of HRT. So, I'll repeat it often can be heard in public space we won't pay this fee for HRT, of course people are frustrated because of the absolutely unacceptable software content that collapsed below zero I would say, but on the other hand we have to repeat that he is doing his legal task, and we will make sure that this public media service is very much needed, necessary and grateful because he organizes a complete media image in Croatia that people living in our country have what is guaranteed by law, and that is true timely and complete information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82789	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82790	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, it is interesting how much we could hear today from the ruling majority's representatives in an effort to defend them indefensibly. It's really interesting. Here, one of the statements. When there will be the next election of members of the Supervisory Board there will be talks with candidates because it is fair, that means that this choice is unfair, right? No, if that's fair, then this is unfair. [[Intruder: No.]] That's the first thing. The second thing I've said on the board, what's done, this is to belittle the role of the assembly, to belittle the role of parliamentary representatives, and what's worst is to reduce the importance of the board. Don't forget, I asked you to think differently about committees. We should look at ourselves differently on the board. We're representatives of Parliamentarians there. Not to look at parties there, not to be left and right, but to work as a working body. To be all the same there, I asked that on the board loud and clear. It probably exists somewhere in the record or some kind of tone record. I've already asked if you know if you know the law on HRT and if you know the role of the supervisory board. I asked if you talked to those candidates, you didn't. Are you even sure that these people exist, are you sure that someone didn't mess with us all together and send some documents he downloaded from the Internet? You're probably sure because they were spoken to but not in the assembly, they were spoken to at the HDZ center and there was a decision made, not in the assembly. The assembly will only confirm the decision taken at the HDZ centre. And that's a shame. None, so no lady who cleans up here in the assembly, no cleaner who's out there busy and out driving that cart and targets in the street can be admitted to the workplace unless he's been interviewed. But a member of the Supervisory Board can be admitted to whoever he wants and whatever he wants. Without criteria, the criteria are reportedly established or established on the basis of the documents sent. Are these documents correct, accurate, not accurate I have no idea. If these people exist, they don't exist, we have no idea. I think what it says in Article 2, pardon 22, that we should have members of the Supervisory Board experience in the media is obvious that they do not have to have experience in the media, it is much more important to have experience in collaboration with HDZ members. It is much more important that they have experience in collaboration with the HDZ centre. That's much more important. Here, I asked our colleague who's a member of the board if he talked, if he could tell me what attitudes these people will represent, what are their worldly horizons, what are their political views. The people we take to the board of directors? Which way will HRT funding go? Can you determine that? We receive 3 members of the Supervisory Board and they make financing decisions, whether to finance such emissions or such emissions. And we haven't talked to them, and we have no idea what their views are, we have no idea what they represent, we have no idea where the funding and work of HRT will go in the first place. We have no idea. Why do we have no idea because the ruling majority didn't let us? Why she did not allow us to propose to our colleague to speak to the candidates unanimously by most of the decision not to speak to the candidates. The question was, did we propose a candidate? We didn't propose it because you've already decided everything before because it was solved before. And I didn't leave the session until I saw who the candidates were, when I saw who the candidates were, then I left the session. Only then. And don't impute me that we did something or that we didn't do something we couldn't do because we couldn't do anything. And this conversation with future candidates that will be in the future, it will be with the candidates you know whom to whom to propose opposition. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82791	We have a lot of replicas, the first respected representative of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82792	Dear Mr. Pavic, here's just maybe a little bit of an explanation. So there is no legal obligation for candidates to be called. The practice was that they used to call, sometimes they didn't call. When the candidates called then some candidates did not respond to these talks, and precisely those candidates who did not respond to the committee's talks were then elected by your majority, by your political option at that time. So, just those candidates who didn't respond to the call and came to the board meeting were elected twice. After that, he explained the explanation there was, so there's enough and you can see everything from the CV it's quite clear everything doesn't need to be called candidates, there's no need to harass people. That's what the record says. Then why was that good and now it's not good? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82793	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82794	Dear Mrs. Martinecevic, I highly appreciate you, but don't defend you indefensibly again. When I came to the director's office, I made my own rules that were in accordance with the law and we did things differently. I think we've done better. When I came to the board member's office, I made my own rules, and I thought we were doing better, and I showed that I was doing better, should we respect what happened 5, 10 or 15 years ago? Shouldn't we promote this democracy of ours, transparency? Is it your view that it's okay for the man who calls for a conversation and doesn't come to the conversation to be admitted, that it's correct? If I had been a member of that board, I would never have been admitted, never trust me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82795	The next replica of the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82796	Thank you. Dear counterpart Pavic, therefore, when the whole monster started around the pandemic, we received information from the media that the prime minister called for a discussion on how to report on the pandemic itself. Of course, it is clear that it is a certain political influence on the media that should have remained impartial, objective, independent. I am also interested in the fact that some have bowed down, some remain independent and continue to report quite objectively on the subject. I'm curious to see if that's how you actually generate mistrust in the people, and in fact, that's how we put the vaccination process at risk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82797	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82798	With this process and this work, not only have we lost trust in the people, so we degrade ourselves, we have reduced our own value and our own role. Each of us sitting here in these benches had to go to his constituency for a month and introduce ourselves to every man who asked anything, any question, not one day, but a month we responded to it through social networks, and through newspapers, and through television, and in the city, and on the street, and in the country. And here comes someone who is politically-like, supposedly similar I have no idea if there is any, here's Mr. Ivanovic telling me he didn't talk to me he has no idea that these people exist and he's going to be a member of the Supervisory Board. By what standard? How? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82799	The next replica honours MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82800	Thank you very much. Your Honor. This Media Committee has shown how much it holds to the procedure and let's remember the appointment of the head director of HRT. This committee has refused to speak to all the candidates reported. In the Law on HRT in Art. 22. It seems to me that Article 2 will take special care that most elected members in the Supervisory Board have working experience in the media. Of the proposed candidates, only one has, although in finance in one media house, so most have no such work experience. Do you think the refusal to talk to all the candidates reported actually lies in that it would not be seen that there are candidates who are better, who satisfy all the legal assumptions, and that that is the intention of simply setting up the one who is close to the rulings?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82801	I think we all right to consider it, with full rights because we don't know who is what and how he did it. It says here that one member of the Supervisory Board must have experience in finance. Couldn't we have talked, put on a bunch or a list of people who have experience in finance, on one side people who have experience in the media and then find the best candidate among those who have experience in finance and then find those candidates who have experience in the media, wouldn't that be fairer and more correct than this. No one has a clue. Here, ask your colleagues from the ruling majority to let someone tell you who these people are. What's he gonna do? No one has any idea what they're representing, how they represent, they have no idea anything. I have no idea how he's gonna raise his hand to that. I really don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82802	Followed by a replica of the esteemed representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82803	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pavic. I think it's a very good example of you that you really can't at the lowest level of employment nobody is without a personal interview, except in this case. I think it must have something to do with the poor experience experienced by the ruling majority with the total defamation of the candidate, Schwebb, who was later elected by them in relation to the fantastic performance of Dari Špelic. In this case, it could have been similar because of the fact that he was a candidate who could completely dominate all of these others and that it was still public through the media to convey this would have been too obvious. But I want to say one more thing. The candidate who did not respond was a single mother who, with a young child, begged to change that term and was not granted it, and not that she had not come to the meeting with contempt for the interview. I'm just talking to those before the case that we keep...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82804	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82805	Yeah, here you're actually trying to show the truth in a weird way that what's fact and that goes in favor of the opposition that you're not just saying it. I'm glad you brought it up, I didn't want to talk about it, but we know that was the case. Could she have come to the interview maybe in half an hour or two, I have no idea, but if it was enabled, it was not enabled and it was probably spoken to somewhere on a committee outside the time that was called for talks. What you said about the Director's election. We saw a difference in the approach of one candidate and another, we warned of a potential conflict of interest, the ruling party ignored it all together and chose a candidate who had already been elected in advance. In fact, if you remember correctly, when we had the first talk about candidates, it was said that we already knew who would be the director. Our colleague, unfortunately here, is not here said to know the name and last name of the candidate, and that name and last name of the candidate was later confirmed. And the gentleman has been chosen. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82806	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82807	Thank you. This eyeless debate shows where all of Croatia's key problems are. So even when we make laws, we make them so that they can be broken, avoided, or interpreted at will. Such an article is unfortunate, 22th century 2 of the Law on HRT. It's said they'll make sure the candidates have experience in the media, but if they don't, then nothing. And obviously here is the only criterion required, not whether candidates have experience in the media, but whether they have experience in business relations with prominent members, even parliamentary representatives from the HDZ ranks. Party entanglement, clientelism is what ruined Croatia and that is why Croatia is now at the bottom of all criteria of all other EU member states. And there's no end to it. As long as this structure is on the other side of HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82808	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82809	Here's when you mentioned passing the law, I'll just remind you of yesterday's debate. To the Law on the Committee of Conflict of Interest. We warned what's wrong, why it's wrong, what should be done, everything's ignored. We were given minimum time from first reading to second reading to write amendments and we really didn't get to do it. And what did we get? We got what we had at first. Are we going to talk about the bill that came here to the Parliament on recovery after the earthquake? Is that where we all warned that the law was wrong? Did we all warn him that he needed to be changed? Did we all warn him that he wasn't available? It was ignored, after a year the law changed, and we lost a billion in the meantime, we lost a billion, and no one will answer for it. No one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82810	The next replica, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82811	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague Pavić. That amount of mind compensation that's being fabricated here practically every day is something that certainly isn't something that's going to bring good. This is a political arena. The parliament is a political arena where certain political groups fight in a politically and reasoned way, too much so that what they do, recognize the people who will choose them again tomorrow or not. You heard what the board president said. I believe that the board has made no procedural error, that according to the law, it has done the work that was put before it, selected 3 members, has proposed 3 members and we will select them by majority vote in HS tomorrow. I think it's the beginning and the end of this story. All of these other political nuances that you absolutely have a right to, but most of them absolutely don't stand and hold water. Therefore, I see no reason to You're completely imputing something to us. [[Intruder: Time.]] And you've made some mistakes. [[Intruder: Time.]] before us. [[Intruder: Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82812	I'll start at the end. I didn't make mistakes because I wasn't in the Parliament. Whoever did them, call them, don't call me because I wasn't here. That's the first thing. Second of all, did everything go according to law? It is. But this is not an ex-post mind, we immediately asked the board, let's talk to the candidates. Therefore, the mind was then at the moment when the decision was made. Furthermore, you're saying this is a political arena. Do not view it as a political arena, see it as a workplace where we came to make quality decisions and quality laws. But that's not your goal, and that's the problem. If your goal was to make quality decisions and quality laws, you would have acted differently and there would be no advance decision, you are already, here, as I heard earlier, already chosen by the majority. So you know they'll all vote for them. Well, here, vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82813	The next individual debate is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82814	Good afternoon. We can talk later here, but let's not play silly. And I have to say that every time someone comes in here with a legal correction and we say, so listen, the director of HRT isn't elected legally because it's in an apparent conflict of interest, and then the law changes so that the director can be in a conflict of interest if he solves his business relations within 60 days, but here isn't even that case. We have an art here. 22th century 2 which says that it will pay attention to the fact that most members of this Supervisory Board should have some experience in the media. You can't tell us that there were no candidates who had applied, and who had more experience in the media because it was the case, so I just heard from my colleague Matula that there was Pasko Bilić who I know has several studies written about the media, and you here are giving us some lawyers and some financiers, who are all, but that is, I mean, that's the point of everything, they've all been or are now. They're professional committees, professional committees, and I'm going to warn you colleagues and colleagues, so it's not just about this, with the media, with HRT. We have a case with the Orljav and the Brodar Institute where Ivan Rac is sitting, a man of trust means Minister Horvat who is in dozens of supervisory committees who have nothing to do with shipbuilding and has nothing to do with textiles. They're people who are professional committeemen. And don't tell us that everything here is legal because not a colleague of Ivanovic is all by law. And then maybe we'll pass a law that will allow everyone to be a financier and all be lawyers and not have to do with the media because every time we're here, every time someone warns that something is illegal, we're changing the law to curtail the law. So we had the law of a colleague and colleagues just remember about the University of Defense and Security that doesn't have to pass the accreditation program. So all universities have to go through the accreditation program, we passed the law that this university doesn't have to pass the accreditation program. And what I want to ask you here as a question. What is the function of the supervisory board? What is the post of members of the Supervisory Board? And here the thing is quite evident that no function they do not have and then no wonder what was warned before that they did not react in cases where it was evidently necessary to react to the Supervisory Board. They will neither react to this future because it is not a function for them to react, it is a function for them to be professional supervisors. And I have to say that there's a pretty clear situation here, so we have Barca on the Supervisory Board of Croatian Insurance, and he was on the Supervisory Board of Croatian Airlines, ZSEM, we have Mark Primorac, who is in the Supervisory Committees and Committees of the Ministry of Economy, HEP, HZMO, we have Rudes, who is the business partner of HDZ, these are the functions to be sought. I mean, it's quite clear what's fair and certainly not fair what's been brought here. But I am saying that we should warn that one of these candidates was a man named Pasko Bilić, who is an expert in the media, and now you have only on the supervisory board, so Dario Spelic, who is a member of the Board of Supervisors and who, of course, has very much experience in the media, and the rest have no experience in the media more or less, and so this actually choice is illegal. And you can say it's legal, but it's not legal because you don't have a man here who knows anything about the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82815	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82816	Well, here I was a little surprised by Mrs. Peovic's presentation. So just to be perfectly clear. The recommendation is, therefore, that the law defines that members have experience in the media and most members of this monitoring board have experience in the media, so this is not a topic at all. And what I was worried about in your statement that you mentioned that there would be some kind of financiers out there, and here I wrote down that I'm not misquoting you. So this supervisory board controls, manages 1.3 billion kuna. Those aren't some kind of financiers out there. The key people are financiers because it's this kind of means. And Matuli, I'm very sorry, I'm sure it's not his melodrama, that this distinguished representative may have been manipulated, but here I have the record from the board, Mrs Antonija Petrusic, so this poor single mother who couldn't come because she had to look after the child apologized for her earlier scheduled business trip.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82817	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82818	Okay. My colleague Martincevic, we already have situations here with this committee of yours, so I would like to ask you nicely to give us representatives an elaborate on what kind of relationship members of the Supervisory Board have been selected in with the media, that's the first thing. And as for financiers, the law says there should be one or several legal professions, if I remember correctly, but certainly not all of them. One, one, not all. So you don't have to, there's no need for that really. So other than that, if you really want financials and you think financiers are the most important thing for the board of directors, so it's not the best thing for that HRT, is it? So the elaborate in which these people are connected to the media. How they really look at these media and are able to react, and we have seen that they have not been able to react before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82819	Next replica, the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82820	Thank you. Dear fellow Peović, this is interesting, and I would like you to comment on this in fact perfiduous call to the procedure I would say exactly what I would say because, of course, that everything can be looked at like that there is a recommendation in Article 22(2), making sure that it is possible, of course, that they are financial experts, but that they are understood in the media, financial experts in the media, but if it is not possible, it is important that we keep an eye on them, I say on their behalf that they are manageable, that they are obedient, that you can rely on them. And that political arena, where they are, is now talking about political nuances, but in that political arena, that tigers and lions in that political arena of HDZ eat the last traces of public service. Of course, that's the arena.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82821	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82822	Yes, thank you, Comrade Matula. What I'd just add to that. So we have a situation where, and I'm going to get in the way, I'm going to really elaborate that a single mother apologized for some other excuse, and that's why she didn't come to the presentation, but let's just leave it aside. What matters here is that it's not true that there were no candidates who had no experience in the media. So we have communicologists, man is a communicologist, so communication theorists, and he's better off meaning than three people who have nothing to do with the media or have really loose relationships with the media. So I don't think they really have a show in this situation what Misho Kovac would say about HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82823	The last replica of the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82824	Dear colleagues. They were comfortable instead of these three people who suggested they could put in Conan, Marcella Mastroianni and Mariah Carey. The fact that Conan is a fictitious character, Marcello Mastroianni deceased, and Mariah Carey is far away on another continent so nothing can change things. You've heard it before, they're going to vote tomorrow, they're going to bring us down to what they are, which is the raisers of hands or the pressurers of the GUP. The amendments to the Law on HRT made by the SDP made by the Government were completely disenfranchised by the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board and we saw this up to the limit of extreme cynicism, in Bačić's time, for example, when they moved to non-profit accounting, the Supervisory Board to give negative opinion, to no one. They're moving on. So I'm going to do it again, unfortunately it's totally still gonna be these or Conan, Marcelo Mastrianni or Mariah Carey.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82825	Answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82826	I don't know about these two, I think Mariah Carey was good. But, I can agree, the SDP has passed a series of laws that are not correct and that it will take years for us to do them in some way politically to return, first of all, workers' rights to focus, which are deleted by SDP laws in two mandates, and that it's brought us down here in such a way as to say, raisers' hands, is, really, I mean, it's a function of everything because if we're passing laws in which law is illegal, then it really doesn't make any sense to discuss anything here because I'm saying, you can't pass a defense law where you can legally allow there to be no accreditation, you can't pass a law that allows someone to be in conflict of interest, but if it's fair to admit it, then it's okay. I mean, that's the kind of law we make.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82827	The next replica, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82828	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. I spoke on behalf of the club, so I didn't really mean to speak in an individual debate, but the performances of my colleagues at HDZ asked me to call again. We just lit Christmas candles here in HS. That's what we wanted to send some kind of message from this House, probably. We've sent a message to call public tenders fictitiously, that it's such an act of procedure, to cloud people's eyes. In accordance with the law, at least it is not in accordance with the law, whatever you say from HDZ because, as I said, it is the Information Committee that prescribes the president's procedure. I've made a request on this committee to have a conversation with the candidates in the procedure. You said no. That's the only truth. There's no other truth. There's no third truth. You said no. You voted not to do this, so your colleagues would say they didn't meet any candidates, but they got three names from the HDZ Club, there probably from Fascism's Square, that they'll vote and I respect it, but then get out of the law that we have a public tender, say, the ruling majority appoints the Supervisory Board to do what the ruling majority wants and that's legitimate. That's totally legitimate, but don't lie to us. Do not lie to Croatian citizens. That's the key, this whole debate is about what you do that doesn't say in the law, which is not the spirit of the law, and that's the problem. I have no problem with you passing the law, and you have a majority vote and you will be appointed by 76 directors and the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council and whatever you want. I said, your desire to rule the media over the past 30 years has completely destroyed HRT. It has nothing to do with that TV we were proud of. All the events that my colleague Matula has been telling us, I don't like repeating what someone else has said is such a shame for one public television, yes, directed by HDZ. And then today you come to this pay phone and you say from next time we'll have conversations. Gentlemen, you needed one day. You could have called people yesterday, a new session, had a conversation, maybe it would have been really, I believe that at least one candidate would have shown by his knowledge and integrity that it was his place to sit there opposite these three when a colleague spoke, then she talked about you having professional people on the boards that it was a profession to represent HDZ's views there. And that's the problem. The Supervisory Boards should be serving something. Our country-run economy is going in this direction precisely because HDZ professionals are sitting there and implementing HDZ policy. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82829	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82830	Dear colleague. We're in the Committee together, and you've been testifying in this entire tape about the election of the head director of HRT as the Supervisory Board acted. The supervisory board that's been reduced anyway, and I've been using the lactating metaphor of the male breast, so much makes sense and functions as well as the program council of those changes to the law. We have also seen that the Supervisory Board has missed the invalid candidacy of the Swedish candidate who has not given a statement that he is not in conflict of interest so explicitly prescribed by the text of the public tender but has made a statement as well as sleep will not be in conflict of interest if he is elected. Here, that went past the board of supervisors. Likewise, the chairman of the then Supervisory Board, Mr. Cutura, did not do well to attend committee meetings but sent Mrs. Paliković Gruden where we did not get some basic explanations. So, we're dealing here with a fully delegated body that nobody asks for, where his advice is being violated by the principal if they give it, and in the end, they're completely irresponsible to this symbolic function and representative that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82831	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82832	I thank my colleague, that we have witnessed the same things, we have witnessed how HDZ manages HRT and what, and what it leads to, what it brings to society because I can't tell you that I disagree, I agree with all of that, and I think it's a shame but primarily HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82833	The next replica is the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82834	Thank you. Let's just once again give a friend of yours that, for some reason, we may find out to the public what, that's not true what they respected that there were no candidates who had to do with the media, that's one thing. And the other thing I'd just like to use to say why financials are needed. Perhaps because HRT had, for years, one of the entire ergel of agency workers instead of hiring people in permanent jobs who wanted to be a full-time employee, and one of the really embarrassing moments of HRT was when Nenad Bakic, the great philanthropist and the entrepreneur, filmed by his agency workers while we had that promotional show where he talked about his own views, about his own views on the world, and he was so well praised by the host while his agency workers, who, by the way, worked for the church, recorded him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82835	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82836	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure when you have put a fellow Hood to have the right to a replica, I have no problem having him replicate to me just one, but last time you took that right away from me, because I've raised a replicator after the speaker has finished speaking. You have on tape, me, me, colleague Ivanovic, and you can lift up the replicas, and I like to hear your replicas. I don't have a problem with your replica, but let's keep it in the record as you hold the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82837	Dear Brumnic, you probably know that I don't keep records or write down who gave the replica, who didn't give the replica, there's a record table. So you're wrong, you get a warning, that's your third warning. You have.../incomprehensible... in replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82838	What does the third warning mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82839	It means you're done, and then you have no right to answer. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82840	... But, well, colleagues, why do they need financials on the HRT Supervisory Board? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] When you read it, and they probably didn't read what it says in the law that all HRT needs to do. There are a billion and three hundred million reasons, a billion and three hundred million reasons for Croatian citizens' money that HRT will receive in order to implement the HDZ media policy and that is why they need financiers there. That's where the financiers need to ask no one what's going on. If you've looked at any of the latest HRT reports, then you'll see that there's a lot you don't understand, but you can't get an explanation. So, the last time there was a debate were the questions of fellow Bacic's true will after that he ended up in prison so he probably didn't think he needed to answer anymore. to those questions. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82841	The next replica, the esteemed representative Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82842	So, an esteemed colleague you're talking about how HDZ puts... how HDZ puts its professionals on the HRT Supervisory Board. [[I'm sorry, I can't hear you.]] You had a list of 12 people in front of you who responded to the competition. Please tell me if you know any HDZ members among these people. Do you have any information that any of these three proposed candidates are a member of the HDZ, if you don't, I'll tell you that they're not, maybe you have some records of your own. Secondly, I don't know what you're saying that we don't know what these people on the Supervisory Board are doing and why we're putting on financiers, so it's clear that the Supervisory Board is overseeing the operation of HRT, the compliance of business with law enforcement laws, that it accepts the financial plan, the rebalancing, the final account of HRT, gives consent to the availability of real estate and property of HRT, I think why such flat-rate claims Which you yourself know are not true [[Intruder: Time.]] Why are you taking them out behind this pay phone? [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82843	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82844	A fellow Hood is just the opposite. I said to appoint members of the supervisory committees there who are professional HDZ members of the Supervisory Board and who implement HDZ policy on these supervisory committees and that's why state-owned companies look like that. I agree with you, every member of the Supervisory Board appointed by HDZ knows exactly what to do on behalf of HDZ. And as for the second question, do I know, I don't know any of them. The second question about whether I knew one of those candidates, I didn't see one of them on, when it was for HRT Director. [[Intruder: Please do not communicate with each other.]] And what links they made to HDZ are colleagues from this pay phone. For each of these three, they've found more than enough links to HDZ that maybe someone doesn't have a membership card. makes it a member of the HDZ. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82845	The last replica, the esteemed representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82846	Dear Representative, I must also point out because of our colleagues here in the assembly who are not members of the Information Committee, and also because of the Croatian public, that we have actually been given a chance to talk to members or candidates for the Supervisory Board. And you know how? So on Friday, at the end of the session, members of the ruling majority instructed us to invite candidates over the weekend and have a conversation with them. There. That way we could talk to the candidates. Over the weekend and after that, make decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82847	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82848	I thank my colleague Pavić, obviously you didn't listen to my first debate or you didn't listen well. They didn't do that to us at the end of the board, but at the beginning of the board, right after my request was made clear, so take that number and contact them. Right, I said here, it's embarrassing to me. What people don't understand in this room is impossible to do their job properly. That's what you did. That's what's embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82849	Following the final debate Look at this. Feel free to ask for it. You have a chance. [[Intruder: But I would beg in writing after you look at the video...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Following the final debate, the first final debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82850	To the chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, HDZ has often represented itself and advertised itself as a political party that freed Croatia from the growth of the former single-party state, from the growth of one-mindedness, from the rise of communism. And today we have a situation where members of the Supervisory Board have been elected and elected somewhere at the HDZ party meetings. At a party meeting. So I am now asking all Croatian citizens how those who go to elections and those who don't go to elections, and especially those who vote for HDZ, which is actually a key difference, I don't see it. Namely, that's how one HDZ official admitted it here for this speaker. So he said that he absolutely had no impact on HRT, and he should not be named because he would actually say more or less something similar to any other HDZ representative, but here the problem is that this concrete representative is also a member of the Media Committee, a selection committee. And the dead cold said the opposition MPs' proposals to conduct interviews with candidates were rejected, he said it was not necessary because candidates had already been elected to the HDZ Representatives' Club. And he also said the second time, no matter how often these interviews will take place, because that would be his accent, honestly. So you admit that what you've done now isn't fair after all. And there's nothing new about it. We've been looking at it for 30 years. That's how HDZ destroyed this country, so the state became theirs, not ours. That's how institutions were destroyed. And if you would just look at the cover, let alone read the research conducted by Tado Juric, professor of the Croatian Catholic University, and the research published in the book Immigration of Croats, if we lose Croatia, it says there that these are the party's entourages, clientelism and corruption the main reason for emigration. And how do we know there's clientelism and party personnel, actually exclusively party personnel? So here's how many times we've mentioned that one of the proposed candidates for a member of the Supervisory Board is the business partner of HDZ's distinguished representative. And how nice it would be if we had some law dealing with a conflict of interest that would recognize these situations and standardize them properly. And how nice it would be to have a committee to decide on a conflict of interest that would tell you this is a situation of conflict of interest, this is a situation that should be resolved in a way that puts public interest ahead of HDZ's interests. But there is one analogy between this unfortunate Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest that we discussed yesterday and this topic that we are discussing now. And that is, the HDZ stance expressed through the State Secretary of Justice and the Administration of Mr. Salapic, who repented, so he did not speak at the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, that what we want the HDZ now to have a majority, the HDZ is now deciding. And so HDZ repeats itself now and in relation to the election of members of the HRT Supervisory Board. And when we talk about applicable laws, that Article 22(2). The law on HRT that says it will be kept on whether candidates have media experience. So I suggest that, instead of saying the article, we say the doorknob 22 because what the catch is, the government of the party and the party thinks that the state belongs to it. Now, if that money was called HDZ or the Communist party, it's totally no big deal. There is no difference between Croatia what it is now, what it is today and the former one-party country we left in the hope of, in order for this country to be fairer and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82851	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Honored Representative Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82852	We've heard from our HDZ colleagues that everything has already been decided and settled, they have their own solid majority of I think 78 is an up-to-date vote and they're going to vote on these three people who are proposed tomorrow. So, today's debate turns out to be a completely unnecessary debate about a single surplus body such as the Supervisory Board that is completely deposed, which is not asked for anything, where the head director doesn't have to listen at all, I cited the example of crossing non-profit accounting, so we're talking about nothing, but at least we can talk about, parlo parliament, parliament is doing that. The problem began during the last SDP government when the HRT law was changed, when both the programme council and the supervisory board were empowered, they then created an institutional framework for their man Radman fell into a communist chamber that was supposed to return television to the professional standards that they ruled in the single-party system at the time while the secret police were still killing political immigrants, and the verbal delinquent was in effect. After the SDP, HDZ came to power and saw that it was good, that the law should not be changed because now the beating that SDP had put together media for themselves had been taken over by them and they had installed their principals. It seems that this thing can only be solved in two ways, it can be solved by the judiciary and law enforcement when it works out as in Mr. Bačić's case where they didn't investigate crime on HRT, but in a completely different investigation, he comes in as a courier who was carrying money for bribes. Another way is to change power, what I can promise if we take part in some ruling majority, and most likely we will in two and a half years, we will not take the beating that the SDP then took over from the HDZ for ourselves but will insist on amending the HRT Act where one balance will be created and the impact between the Director-General, the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board as before. And this supervisory board is saying enough that they missed the candidate's invalid candidacy, and they haven't missed any other nominations where there were a lot of indications that everything is in line with the text of the competition. I will remind you once again, Schweb has submitted a candidacy in which he has not given a certified statement to the public not to be in conflict of interest as a candidate, which clearly prescribes the text of the competition but has made a statement that in the future he will not be in conflict of interest if he becomes chief director. Despite our warnings, his candidacy has been granted. The illegal anti-static, anti-legislative sittings without quorum, then clones of the same sessions a day earlier that all of the parliamentary Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure was annulled, at the end of the Schweb was pushed into that position even though in a difficult conflict of interest as owner of five sports channels, and on the other hand, it was difficult to damage HRT when he did not act as director of HRT and applied for the transfer of the 2009 World Handball Championship, so the man did not do what his superior arm did and see the wonders of the job received RTL, which was then television in the field, and today he cut HRT into informative examples, and after the Swedish companies collaborated with the same RTL. What are we talking about? What surprised me here is that you didn't have the cleaning of a less vulnerable candidate than Mr. Schwebb telling me that the human pool was already almost completely exhausted, as you had no one instead of the state's chief attorney than despite everything that's happened and that she lied here in this assembly, which was later proven and you remain in the same position. So we can only rely on this parliamentary speech, in the next election, and somewhat in the judiciary and the law enforcement bodies that can solve the matter by then. In the meantime, the degradation of HRT will continue, particularly its Information Programme. I am sorry that HDZ has not mentally exceeded the frameworks of the former Federation of Communists of Croatia and is not aware that it maintains such control over public television and the information tool that brings you some pluses but becomes counterproductive. People make fun of HRT especially from the Information Program. That the show "Open" on the day when the assistant county attorney is arrested and the money is in the garage is the theme of tourism, until the same "Open" is called with Hrebac at 10 because every week there is a man whose weight weighs 0.2% as a piece of furniture. So, doing counter-propagand to yourself, but obviously beyond certain mental frameworks can't. In the end, we can't do this as a club and we won't support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82853	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82854	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS. In this year and a half, I'll use three words second time to start my presentation, and that's, oh, oh, oh. What we've been listening to for the past 25 minutes, I just can't believe it. Every day I'm here in the Parliament, we know each other well, but to bring out these lies, to muddle a certain structure with nothing at all, just enough to say something, just to say something, and to do harm to HDZ. Well, it won't work. Let's start with Mr. Rapudic, who was the last to speak, and the proposal was not at any meeting of the Media Committee to decide who would be members of the Supervisory Board. In the last month, he's been on HRT twice, so that HDZ is so tight on HRT, and I don't think Nino Rasudic or his missus would participate in the cult show of HRT, we would stop it. So, to say that HDZ has some kind of direct control of HRT is so much passage and so much effusion that it simply didn't deserve the attention and listening to these people here. - Mrs. Crescent. Peovic says the next thing is that some financiers are elected to the supervisory board. Take care of that, some financiers. So who runs the board of directors? Who are the people who need to sit on the board of directors? People who know the law well, people who know the finances well. These are two elements that are most important for the Supervisory Board, not for HRT, but for each Supervisory Board. They're not any financiers, they're people who have their CVs, they're people who have their skills, they just want to implement what's called the HRT Supervisory Board. Yours, ma'am. Oreshkovic let me ask, how does Mr. Puljak choose in Split members of the board of directors, school boards, and if they weren't your members, sympathisers and those you chose? And here today all the trees and rocks on HDZ. Look, this is how I show you my hands. They're clean. There is no affair, there is no retreat, that I was someone's man, that I was dragged, that I was kneeling in front of someone, that someone begged me to give him a job or give me a job, that I wasn't doing it in my political practice, and I want to speak too much, honestly, as my mind commands. Mr. William Matula, good man. But what's the point of making a claim that's not based on anything and then being denied by the chairman of the Media Committee who read him the official minutes from the meeting of the Media Committee? Why do we fire such phrases that don't hold water, that aren't founded? There's an archive, there's everything that follows the work of HS and every board of names. Why are we getting into this? I don't have any phone numbers on HRT. And here it's imputed to HDZ that the main humanist is on that same HRT. Well, it's not that, it's not fair. I have sent out a clear message from this speaker and the name of the entire committee, or most of it in the Committee on Information, Information and Media, which is that we will correct exactly what has been an unequal practice and that is true, it is evident when the chronological work of the Supervisory Committee on.../incomprehensible/... that is, the work of our Media Committee in the past 15 years and I have said honestly and I think it is not fair, but that it is correct. Politically correct on the mark of what most of you have been saying, that you want to raise certain standards. I agree, I don't mind. We'll choose people, here, to be one of the conditions even though it doesn't say anything, but let it be a condition for our board to conduct interviews with anyone who will be elected or elected to the Board of Supervisors. The only thing I'm going to agree with is Mr. Rasdic, who's been able to detect this whole gene and how it's been created. It was created in 2012. It can wash anyone's hands, by changing the Law on HRT when the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board took the tool to choose the Director, and then it was quite different called and I gave it to the Parliament, and that's where the problems came from. [[Intruder: Time.]] But you won't blame the HDZ for that. [[Intruder: Time.]] The moment was not part of it. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82855	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82856	Thank you, Chairman. I volunteered for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Ivanovic said about Agent Selak.../incomprehensible/... Mr. Rasdic, about his work on HRT, he and his lady. So Marija Selak Rasudiæ is a representative in HS and when someone says she is someone's wife, it represents her disdain, and as far as Pulak is concerned, when you ask, what Pulak is doing in Split and how he chooses members on boards, so that he cleans up the dirt that remains behind HDZ and Keruma, and the results are already seen even if you, Mr Sanader, You give a warning because you will consider this not to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that just means that you too support the same chauvinist misogyny policy against women and attitudes that are inappropriate to the home of HS. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82857	You are, I'm letting go, I warn you, 20 seconds you've gone too far first. Secondly, if only you'd stayed on that part regarding Mrs. Devereaux. I wouldn't give you a warning. But then you went in line with Mr. Justifying Mr. Puljko, and for that part you deserve a warning, and not for this first part and for, and not to talk about this thing that you've spent 20 seconds time over, you should give two more warnings, but good. Following is the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82858	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Buddy, it's not good to sell demagogy here for this pay phone. Don't forget what my proposal was when you said the law was wrong. Did I suggest that we change the law and then go to the director's choice afterwards? What did you say? It doesn't need to be repeated, all in all, the law hasn't changed. Furthermore, please explain to me what would be the difference if we had in the Supervisory Board and in the Programme Council all the candidates selected by the ruling party in relation to this now? If these people elected by the ruling party choose the principal, it is as if they were elected in the Parliament. There's no big difference, but... You claimed this law was wrong, I asked you, let's change the law and then choose the director afterwards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You said maybe in some future time. Now you said next time we're gonna talk to the candidates, which I say hello, just reminding you that the next time the candidate is elected is the candidate who proposes the opposition. I'm glad you'll sit down with us and talk to those candidates who report to that contest and hope that you will respect the will of the majority by the opposition and then vote afterwards. Furthermore, there are fleets of financiers and lawyers on the Supervisory Board. If only there were financials and lawyers on the supervisory boards, those companies that have supervisory boards would be miserable. Poor thing. Because one of the important things about the board of directors, for the people on the board of directors, is that they know the business of the companies where they are on the board of directors. Why? Because they make key decisions. Why are they making key decisions? Because they receive an order from the congregation, or from the owners or founders, to set goals, and then the director or administration is obliged to achieve these objectives, or to set a strategy for achieving those objectives. So you're wrong to be financialists and lawyers. They should be people who know how to direct business. In a specific case, HRT's business. And what's said here is that you don't have any effect on HRT is not true. That's not true. HRT should be public television. Public television, not TV to broadcast HDZ's successes, is not our goal. Lucky for you, you've got a little of them, so it's not exactly a program filled with too many of them. But it's about having a different rule of HRT. You said, you don't have any editors, I'm glad you don't, and I believe you, I mean, we talk a lot to each other, and I have no reason not to believe you, since I think you're a correct and honest man and there are no dilemmas. However, if any of your colleagues are managing these people, it is a questionnaire above our heads. Why? If none of us, so none of us in this House talked to the people who are candidates for the Supervisory Board, and yet the decision was made, means someone talked, but not parliamentary representatives, but some other HDZ people, and they proposed to the majority of the Committee, and most of them voted in the Committee. Therefore, we know where decisions are made and we know where decisions already made will be confirmed. Unfortunately, just confirm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82859	We're going back to the previous agenda. There are two final hearings left. The first final debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives Club, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82860	Here, the reason I called is, to put it that way, a little bit expired. Col. Kapulica said a sentence that encouraged me to report to the final presentation, which is a sentence of one of the MPs, or question – show which of these candidates had a member, a member, a HDZ membership card, and happily concluded none. Well, I would warn you colleagues and colleagues that it would be much fairer if all three had a HDZ membership card. What is clientelism and corruption anyway? Clientism and corruption, however, are a little more sophisticated than having someone with a HDZ membership card get all the jobs. Unfortunately, they don't have a HDZ membership card, but if they did, then things would be more clear to us. Clientelism and corruption, however, have progressed to clientelism and corruption 2.0 when you do not have to have a member of your party who gets jobs, which enters the supervisory boards, which enters the commissions. I'll also say one thing that bothers me often with the opposition. There is no clientelism and corruption here because we are a more dishonest people than some European people. They are here to a good extent because Croatia, to a large extent, has poored. Because no one can even get a job as a cleaning lady in Holding today. It was known that if you don't know Bandic, you can't get a job or a cleaning lady. We have therefore come to the fact that people and vote largely for HDZ because they expect some benefits from it. And the benefits are brutally existential. These are the benefits of getting a job and being able to feed your family. But it's really a big part of the consequences of HDZ rule. So when you say, Mr. Kapulica, that these candidates didn't have a HDZ membership card, which means comparing those who came forward, who have papers in the field of media culture and communication with financial and professional board members, then it would be fair to say that it's actually bad, because if they had a HDZ membership card, things would be much simpler and much clearer. And when you hire and put on boards of people who are clearly in conflict of interest, when you bring in the director of HRT who is in the declared conflict of interest, then it would really be fairer to have a HDZ membership card.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82861	Final debate of the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82862	Thank you. One of the favorite sentences of HDZ colleagues when it comes to HRT is that this law passed the SDP coalition in 2012 and was chosen by the director. I don't think that's a problem at all. You've changed several hundred laws, so you can do that. And I think this law is good and it doesn't need to be changed. Because it is much better that, as my colleague Peovic said, the transparent parliamentary majority should choose someone who suits her so as to know who is behind it, or who is behind it. By the way, the Croatian Football Federation has a colleague from HDZ on its forehead, who was in ours, was a colleague of Kustic. Croatian Chamber of Commerce, headed by someone from HDZ. The Croatian Red Cross again headed by someone from HDZ, does not elect the Parliament. And so we continue, even this gentleman who is running for member of the Supervisory Board is headed by the Wushu Alliance. There are several alliances where there's someone who's not HDZ. It's rare, but it does. It happens. So, I don't see what, it's not about who chooses, it's about what you always choose wrong. He was Sinisha Kovačić, so you chose him, so he had to leave. Well, this Bacic guy had to go. We also told you something about Schweb, if he will, as long as he remains, we will see. So it's about the law. Now, what my colleague Peovic said about this, about the party card. I wouldn't underestimate it, let's say in the FIMI Media it seems to me, a convicted cashier. He wasn't convicted of the party's chief secretary, but he's a convicted cashier. So, a dozen ministers, the party's chief secretary and fifty MPs fought, but the cashier also succeeded in overcoming all of them, this one, this one, this one, in that political struggle, and she was convicted, they did not, because they prevented the cashier from, and failed. So you wouldn't underestimate the cashiers in this part of the staffing. He said a long time ago, one I don't know who it was, I mean, they told me that Stalin was the basis of every human policy. And as you can see, the issue of staff policy is something that took more time to discuss in the Croatian Assembly for three members of the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT, than the law that was before, which had some economic implications. Let's get this over with. Three members of the Supervisory Board responded to a public call in agreement with the HDZ, selected by HDZ's majority in the Committee on Information and Media, and will be elected by the HDZ majority in the Assembly. Along with assistance, coalition partners who will occasionally or occasionally express the reserve, or conditional support, or they will rip something out for something else, around, about support to allow enough votes to be held. So this is the tenth season of that same show we're watching. Which has a few, a few of these, phases. So name before appointment a little problem, and between problems and appointments, rip up. It reminds me of what to locate, so, troublesome, rip, name. Now that's a new version of this transfer, identify, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82863	We've finished our discussion, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82865	I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of Hope, Mrs. Nada Murganic, to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82866	Respect for the vice president, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Selection, appointment and management of jobs has made several proposals for decisions. Decision on the resolution and election of the President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee Chairman, Niksha Vukas, is hereby dismissed, and Dr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. Branko Grcic is elected member. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President of the Committee on Space, Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. Representative Viko Grgic is resolved, and Sanja Radolovic is proposed to be vice-president of the board. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. Vice-President of the Committee of Representatives Mirela Ahmetovic is dismissed. I Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the election of the Vice-President of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Vice-President Zeljko Pavić is resolved, and Mirela Ahmetovic is elected vice president. All these decisions will be published in the National Journal, and will take effect on the day of adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-14-0.u82867	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much, Mrs. Murganic. We now move to the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. The promoter is the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. [[Intruder: No.]] I'm opening a debate. There's no one here. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you very much, tomorrow morning at 9:30 p.m. to present the position of the club representatives and the 10:30 vote. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session interrupted at 15.48 hours.
