ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u42763	Now I'm going to comply with the article. 226.St. 2 Rules of Procedure propose an addition of the agenda of the 7th session with 14 new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means, and art. The 227 Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under point 1 of the proposed amendment? This is the point of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on protection against domestic violence with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 153. In the absence of any comments, a proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure shall be deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda were not available, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 7th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u42832	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] He'll be the first to speak on behalf of the State Movement Representatives' Club, no, here he is. He's coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u42833	... So thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleague Ahmetovic, don't make me laugh because I plan on speaking poetry, this hasn't happened in HS yet. However, I do not mean to speak to the Ujevic or Simic, something strong, but one such by-product poetry, that will be useful for understanding some political developments in Croatia. So, as a boy in elementary school in the reading room, I find a poem or a teacher instructs us to memorize it. The whole face of grief, her heart is beating, which is running out of diabolical Krntija, which has run out of leaders of the uprising, the first leader, Oreshković Marka. He is the second member of the Croatian family, but he is the mother of the Serbian people. O Ustasha, your sorry mother, many of you have fallen for Mark, and yet your sorry mother will. It is a Croatian anti-fascist and hero Mark Oreshkovic who died in the 10th month. '41. Mr. when he left Zagreb for the three-way between Like, Dalmatia and Central Bosnia to encourage Serbs to finally start shooting at the Italian occupier and fascists because they are shooting or slaughtering Croatians until then. And what's going on with Mark Oreshkovic? On his return home, Serbian partisans sell him to Serb Chetniks and these slaughter him. It is the fate of Croatian anti-fascist Oreshkovic Mark. So I wanted to say something to someone else, but here, my colleague Oreshkovic is coming, and I finished the story of Oreshkovic Mark,.../incomprehensible/... today I don't need too much time, 3.4 minutes is enough for me. I expected a lot of what happened in Bezovica. They're going there, the prime minister, the president, so we can go to our colleagues! I gave many tips that they should study Croatian antifascism and then talk about it because there were really people who were anti-fascists. But this battle, this fight and all that together is completely different, and that's why I said last time that Marko Oreshkovic was the paradigm of what was happening. That's not true. What I find personally nice is the president of the state of Zoran Milanovic, so we are almost friends, we are almost friends. You know why we're friends? Because we're consistently fighting for the truth, so whatever it is. I trust him as a man, but he chooses a man of bad counsel. Well, you can't tell the truth, and listen to two of Goldstein's dad and son when they lie, fake, fake both, and it's very easy, it's very simple to prove. So the war didn't start that way because the Croats from these places went to help the devastated Serbs who were slaughtered by the Croatian government rather than the local Serbs in '41. very prepared or very prepared than in '91. The massacres of Croats began to subside against Croatians, and then the KPJ had other goals, wanting to turn this war into a socialist revolution, sending its commissioners to places where the war raged with the aim of getting them attacked by fascists, etc. If I were to mention Izidor Struk, I also mentioned here and elsewhere, in Philip Cohen's book when I speak sometimes there is no one, somewhere in the book of Philip Cohen of the American Jew that says that 400 Serbs are Partisans from Bania, you would croatize it and say Banovine is Nikola, so 400 Serb partisans from Banovina leave the partisans with the Germans because they say there are too many Croats in the partisans. We were going to fight the Croats, not together with the Croats. I can tell you a lot more, but sometimes it's a stronger message when it's contained in two good thoughts than when it's running, it fights over time, and one thought chases another, and then it doesn't get the impression it's supposed to be. What happened in '41, '45? I don't know, and we started to fix it, and then unfortunately led by these Glodsteins, the president, the prime minister, the people who have them in their heads, I commend them one and the other, got all crazy in Bezovica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u42949	The next club of MPs will be the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u42950	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yesterday was a great day for Europe and the day of the major defeat of the HDZ, after a long time, the local public was closely monitoring the activities of the European Parliament, but also the meeting of the European Council. The most important focus was on voting so-called. Matic's resolution, which was also discussed by counterpart Ahmetovic, who, despite strong opposition from radically right and fundamentalist groups, voted most of the votes of European MPs and MPs. A good part of the report was raised by the members and members of the European People's Party, but not the HDZ. On the contrary, they voted against a resolution that would strengthen women's reproductive rights and health. With this incredibly false political assessment, they stepped for who knows which way to the wrong side of history and once again confirmed themselves as the butik of Democrats. But it was not the only defeat of HDZ policy that day in the European Parliament, again HDZ MPs, this time unfortunately with the support of some SDP colleagues and colleagues tried to reverse a progressive report that opens a new perspective in BiH. The Green-Left bloc club in HS is pushing for a change in Croatia's relations with BiH in a way that has strayed from nationalist policies that have been proven in the past 25 years. How many more years should we give them a chance? We are glad that we are not alone in Europe or in BiH. The HDZ has shown itself again not to understand modern political European trends. Finally, we are also coming to the third defeat of HDZ policy in the EU. The defeat, though not yet obvious, may have occurred with Prime Minister Plenkovic's decision to place our country on the side of the protection of Hungary that continues with aggressive homophobic policies of violence against sexual and gender minorities in the country. A country that continues to disintegration the EU. While all Western European members have initiated and signed a letter of condemnation of such continuity as Viktor Orban's behaviour, Croatia has again resorted to Orban's destabilization policies of Europe as if a different Europe were possible. Europe based on nationalism, homophobia, discrimination and xenophobia policies. These are policies that lead to disintegration of Europe, lock us in our own myths and fuel for all wars. The lack of understanding of the broader picture and controversy that is being led on on European values, the turning of the head of that image because of the narrow particular party interests are the long-term defeat of our country in the European arena. All this tells us about how HDZ actually lost the compass in European politics. It fails to monitor trends and is making many policies that are against European trends, and most importantly that they are also against the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. HDZ MPs in the European Parliament have completely lost their compass and are pushing both the party and then our country to the losing side. The Minister of Foreign and European Affairs is helping them with this. Yesterday's triple defeat alarm is also an invitation to all progressive forces in our country to be even more active and even louder on European topics just as counterpart Fred Matic showed this by working on his report to ensure that Croatia remains on the right side of history and that the interests of our citizens and citizens are achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43031	The next Club of Representatives will be the Centre and GLAS, and Dalija Oreskovic will speak to the respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43032	I announced in the media yesterday that when I voted on Zlata Djurdjevic's election in office and the functions of the Supreme Court president, I would remain abstentioned and I was really thinking in that direction. But today, during the discussion of the breaks on behalf of different clubs, I saw who all of Zlata Djurdjevic attacks with what sort of arguments at the personal level and at which low level the culture of political dialogue came down I decided to change my decision on how to vote, and I voted for in order to give Zlati Djurdjevic here in the Croatian Parliament in this way one symbolic support, although I was aware that this one vote, like all votes of the club representatives, the representative of the Centre and GLAS, would not affect the final result and the outcome of this vote as I did yesterday in the replica and explained to my colleagues from the SDP that this one vote on this or that side would mean anything. I remain pure of heart and clean of conscience in all arguments in all the critical views I have given both in yesterday's debate and who many times. I hope that you remember or that at least somewhere else everything that I have said over the past year has been written down, all of what I have suggested and how the Croatian Parliament should take place. In all of this I remain and more and the same things, the same solutions will be represented and advocated and fought for whenever it comes to justice, and behind the summer break I will propose a whole series of concrete laws currently under way and prepared by the Centre Party which will actually shape and develop judicial reform which should never and should not work and prepare HDZ. From all of this, you will all have the opportunity to convince yourself of everything that I have warned all this time and you will be able to see so that we can all design and create the fair and effective justice that we all need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43195	On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43196	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday in the European Parliament, most of the votes voted the Resolution on the Sexual and Reproductive Health of Women and Rights in the EU, which was successfully defended as rapporteur and contributed to its vote by SDP's Europarliamentary Fred Matic. The last of these days we've been communicating intensively, and I know how much hate, sub-smiles and difamations he's faced, but he's also convinced he's doing the right thing. Fred Matic is a hero in the war, a hero in peace, his actions speak for himself, he knows what he defended Croatia for, knows what he did in Serbian camps, knows why he stood up for women's rights. For many men, it could be a cause, unfortunately for many men it was the object of dirty and vulgar messages. This resolution message is to all women of Europe and Croatia, you are not alone, your health, your personal choices, your life is in your hands and no other hands have the right to bind your mind and take away your dignity. This resolution is not directed against anyone, it is an incentive to ensure adequate women's health care throughout EU territory. And it's not just about abortion, it's about a whole spectrum of services such as medically assisted insemination, care for pregnant women, births and midwives, protection against birth-related violence, treatment of infertility, comprehensive sexual education for young people, availability of birth control, discontinuation of harmful practices, agreed early marriages and marriages with children. Of course, conservatives only caught themselves and only abortions and god-awful abolition of the right to appeal to conscience. I'll have to disappoint them, no termination calls for conscience, but it calls for the availability of medical services. As far as abortion is concerned, it must be available and non-discriminatory, it is the right of a woman to decide on her body and condition if she wants to, and no one in the resolution, and neither of us in the SDP advocate an abortion as an affirmative act, nor do we want it to be encouraged as a means of contraception, but a woman must be free in her choice as a doctor free to appeal to a conscience. No less or more than that. Croatia is a lay, secular, global state, there are no religious and secular reasons that would be above the free will of any citizen and citizen and who would bring us back to the Middle Ages. The church has its own mission and is doing it freely, but it cannot and must not interfere with the internal relations of the state, as the state does not pressure its operation, so neither the church has the right to influence the foundations of the lay state. There are noticeable situations where groups of people are inappropriately and below each level standing in a circle of hospitals and trying to influence the free choice of women. If there are worms to their prayers and for that intended place, but that citizens are disturbed by the personal worldview of a group of people, I find it inadmissible and harmful to the reputation of secular society and state. I therefore announce that the SDP will propose a legal provision whereby hospitals would be free zones of any kind of pressure and religious indoctrination. The Emperor's, God's. The woman is not secondary, as she is too often in public discourse marked by clerics with reverse tendencies, the woman is as first as a man. If we're free, then we'll accept freedom in all its forms. This resolution showed Europe why it is the best place to live, the place of free women and men to have the state partner, not the tutor. Too many tears have been shed, bruised, verbal and physical violence experienced to stand by. This resolution showed Europe is on the right side of history and the future. With this resolution, Croatia will be able to confirm this. Once again, sincere congratulations to Fred Matic and his associates, time will show that this resolution is the beginning of changes in Croatia, the SDP has launched them and will participate in them very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43287	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Marko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43288	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to use this free speech on behalf of the club to see again the results of the European funds in the Republic of Croatia, and also to announce the Days of European Funds next week in the Assembly, where at the initiative of the Committee on European Affairs and of my Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, we will have extensive discussions on programming where the ministries will present operational programmes in HS on committees before they go to Brussels. European funds are one of the main motor forces of development of the Republic of Croatia, which is a pleasure that we have passed 40 billion kuna this month as much as we have received from Brussels than we have paid membership fees. If anyone needs reason to believe in the EU to believe that European money and European funds are developing Croatia, that figure is everything. For those critics who say that we are underusing European funds, enough says that 120% is agreed, 55% is paid, so we will not lose a euro cent, we will still get an extra of 10.7 billion euros available from the REACT-EU programme we received an additional 571m euros for this year. So to remind the RECT-EU is an addition to this envelope so that we can deal better with the crisis, and it is precisely these funds that will be invested most of them, or already invested through support for our preservation of jobs and our employers where we have invested more than 11 billion kuna so far to preserve 600,000 jobs. In the next period, so far we have had 10.7 billion in the next period we have over 24.5 billion euros. In the Assembly, we discussed the first 6.3 billion euros, or... through which we will be assigned through the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, and next week at a joint session here in the Parliament on Tuesday, where ministers will come and on Wednesday we will have joint meetings with several committees to discuss in more detail each operational programme and these 14 billion euros. It is up to the government to bring operational programmes and send them to Brussels, but I think it is also an additional step to discuss these operational programmes here in the Parliament before they go to Brussels. So, with the invitation of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to invite all MPs interested in joining us on Tuesday and Wednesday to discuss the operational programmes that we will discuss on individual committees. What is the value of European funds enough to say that European funds are developing Croatia, that they have helped us through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where we will have intensive investment and economics, but also in the construction of schools, kindergartens, hospitals, and now through the operational programme, so through over 13 billion euros we will invest more than 4 billion euros in agricultural policy and more than 9 billion euros in cohesion policy. What is expected and in what way these funds will be allocated will be discussed next week, but what I will once again be happy so far is an envelope of 55% of the use, so we are at our disposal within the next ten years 24.5 billion through the National Recovery Programme, through the Multi-annual Financial Framework and through the Solidarity Fund for Reconstruction and especially the 571m-euro add-on to this financial envelope that will already start so it starts with this year. In line with this, the Eu Funds are one of the main values of EU memberships and these 40 billion kunas we have more than we have paid enough speeches how European funds develop Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43390	The next club of representatives will be that Mosta in the name of which the respected representative, Nikola Grmoya, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43391	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will give today's free speech on the subject, have we forgotten Sisak-Moslavina County and Banovina, mentioned by a respected colleague of the Pracacin. So, Banovina no longer mentions, and people on Banovina are literally fried on this starry in containers is too hot over 50 containers are not air-conditioned. I'm asking the question here to the present representatives and the public, are they even aware of what it's like to live one day in a container without air conditioning? We from the Bridge have appealed to the construction of state or assembly houses from 30 to 70 squares that would cost a maximum of 10,000 euros. Families with fewer members would be a permanent solution, so those settlements with homes should be built in the surrounding areas, cities and municipalities instead of these containers. The same could be used efficiently and efficiently in continental tourism, perhaps modern retirement homes, and all these solutions were offered by our Mosta Sisak-Moslavina County. There was no hearing. There is also no hearing when we talk about drinking water and appeal to this devastating earthquake, so in Petrinja and the surrounding settlements, a red alarm and heat shock were declared at this week, and on a daily basis, the water runs out. All day and night residents do not have water, the surrounding villages also do not have water because wells have dried up after the earthquake, Croatian water and utility companies must provide drinking water 24 hours after the water is gone, but unfortunately this does not happen. Local elections have passed, HDZ continued to rule the county, received authorities in Petrinja, continued to rule in Kukuruzari, Lekenik, Topusko, Dvor, Croatia's Kostaninica, but unfortunately the citizens have nothing to do with it, there is no movement. The state has not yet destroyed and removed red buildings, and there are no indications of construction, there are no completed projects by the state or local communities. There's only one persistent meeting, every day some state headquarters meeting, but nothing's going on. So our Bridge coordinator in that county, Luca Gaspar Shako, asks questions daily, but there is no answer. There is no answer either to the county or to the government where the funds that have been paid to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's special accounts and to the County's special account are, and not to mention the public's large reports of the disappearance of the humanitarian aid. What should also be mentioned here that the government has made a decision on co-financing of the rent for the substitute apartment of citizens whose facilities after the earthquake in Zagreb and Banovina have a red label, states that 359 solutions have been issued by June 2012 and that the change of the decision from 10 June extends the financing of the rent until 17 June 2022. It is crucial that, according to our knowledge, citizens in the area of the county who have property for destruction are not paid any rent, now full six months after the earthquake, and apparently none of the authorities care how people live in Banovina right now, how they pay loans for their ruined properties, pay sub-population and everything else to survive. And how are people going to even go into this building or buying new real estate when they can't even be in charge anymore? The price of the material has gone to heaven, and it's making it harder to rebuild. I welcome the people of Banovina from this place, and here I am, as Parliament's representative, promising to visit the field next week, and I call on the government, government representatives, representatives of the ruling majority to come one day to these container settlements, people will surely host you there because they are good hosts, spend one day with them, and let's start solving these problems of theirs. Let us not use them as you used them in the election campaign, but today, the President of the Parliament in this speech when he spoke about the restoration of the destroyed areas, but finally, let us do something for these people and do it. Here I invite everyone to sit down for a while Banovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u43506	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] The day of independence is marked as mentioned on June 25, 1991, when the Croatian Parliament made two historic decisions. Constitutional decision on sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia and declaration of declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia. After the meeting of the Republic of Croatia, all foreign representatives accredited in Zagreb were asked to recognise their governments to the state of Croatia. These decisions were the constitutional basis for independence and independence in which a sovereign Croatian state was formed. In this act, the Republic of Croatia initiated the process of unbundling the SFRY and other republics and requested international recognition. It was one of the most important days in modern Croatian history. The referendum on Croatian independence preceded that day. In the absence of progress in negotiations with other former Yugoslav republics on the resolution of the state and political crisis, Dr. Franjo Tudjman made a decision to call a referendum held on 19 May 1991. In the referendum, more than 93% of voters voted for Croatia as a sovereign and independent state. This paves the way for the Croatian Parliament to make these two historic decisions by respecting the will of the Croatian people on June 25, 1991. The date of June 25th is important legal, political and historical because basic state acts were adopted that day to which the Republic of Croatia acquired international legal subjectivity. It is decided, therefore, that the state legal system of the SFRY ceases to apply and that the application of the law of the sovereign Republic of Croatia begins. The same day Croatia declared its independence and independence also Slovenia. On the next day, June 26th came from Slovenia the first international recognition of the state of Croatia. The entry into force of these two decisions was postponed by 3 months, with the intervention of the international community, to try to resolve the crisis peacefully. However, over the course of the moratorium on the constitutional decision on the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia, JNA aircraft bombed the Bane dvors in which the then Croatian state leadership was located. It became clear that Croatia, unfortunately, will not be able to achieve its newly declared independence peacefully, by applying the democratic will of the Croatian people expressed in the referendum, but will have to fight for its freedom in the Homeland War. In defence of Croatian freedom and independence, special recognition deserves the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, Croatian defenders, members of the families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders. All of them, but also a large number of other people who have actively engaged in the defence of Croatia, showing exceptional courage, determination and love for their country, are the most responsible for living in a democratic and free Croatia today. Therefore, the Homeland War and its values are the foundation of the existence of today's Croatia, and it is our obligation to preserve and leave these values in the legacy of future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, in these 30 years of independence, we have achieved all the great strategic goals that we have defined at the beginning of the creation of a modern Croatian state, and membership in NATO and the EU has brought us a new perspective and opportunity. We now face new challenges. By building the Peljega Bridge, we will connect the state territory of the Republic of Croatia, continue to prepare for entry into Schengen and the Eurozone, realize the acquisition of multi-purpose Rafale combat planes and speed up judicial, state administration, health and social reforms, thus strengthening our security, safeguarding our borders and ensuring economic progress. As our predecessors from the 1st convocation of HS had the responsibility of their time, at which we give them recognition, there we too today have our obligation to the Croatian people. We should contribute to the creation of a positive political climate in society and by adopting a legislative framework to respond to the needs of our citizens. The previous year, which marked the pandemic and the devastating earthquakes, showed the importance of harmonising the activities of HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the protection of life, human health and safety. Continuing the fight against pandemics and the restoration of earthquake-broken areas remains the priorities of our action. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the future of Croatia in a world of rapid change can only be built by common action and mutual respect, taking into account the main objective of improving and living standards for Croatian people. That is why I call once again on all of us, MPs, to turn to the issues of the future and the challenges of the modern era, on the fundamental values of today's Croatia, as well as respecting worldly and political differences. And finally, once again, to all of you and to all citizens and citizens and to Croats and Croats all over the world, I congratulate you on Independence Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u44585	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We will begin, as announced, first with: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission; so I would ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to submit the Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u44586	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here, the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided in two cases, so we'll go one by one. Therefore, the mandate-immunity commission of the HS discussed at the 16th session held on 23 June the written request of MP Luka Brcic of 17 June 2021 informing the president of HS that he had ceased his incompatible duties as Deputy Mayor of Split-Dalmatia County and, in accordance with Article. 13th century 1 of the Law on election of MPs in HS filed a request for re-behaving as a representative. The commission also considered the request from 17 June 2021 to the president of HS for the term of office in office in accordance with Article 20. 14th century 1 Law on election of MPs in HS with the date on which the activation of the parliamentary mandate was set. The commission found that the stay of Luki Brcic, elected on the HDZ list in the 9th Election Unit, began on 22 July 2020 because of the incompatibility of the Deputy Mayor of Split-Dalmatia County. 9 The Law on election of MPs in HS and that his deputy, Vinko Zulim, began acting on the same day as deputy deputies. How Luka Brcic is in accordance with article. 13th century 1 of the Law on Elections of Representatives in HS filed a written request for the suspension of the term of office of the President of HS within the legal time limit, the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met and the term of office of representative Luke Brcic ceased on the 8th day following the submission of the application. The commission also found that Luka Brcic submitted a request, a written request to the president of HS for the term of office and that they were in accordance with Article. 14 Laws on election of MPs in HS met the law laid down conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Luke Brčić and the continuation of the behaviour of deputy representative Vinko Zulim. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes to the HS the decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and the start of the term of office of MPs. On 25 June 2021, the term of office of representative Luka Brčić ceases to rest, and on 25 June, the stay of the representative's term of office of Luke Brčić begins. Secondly, at its 24th session held on 24 June 2021, the mandate-immunity committee of HS discussed a written statement on the resignation of MP Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, addressed to the president of HS on 24 June 2021. 10th century 1 of the Law on election of MPs in HS is prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Domagoj Ivan Milosevic began acting as deputy deputy representative on 22 July 2020 instead of elected representative Tomislav Ćorić. HDZ in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 42st century 2 The Law on election of MPs in HS has appointed Majda Buric as the deputy elected representative Tomislav Ćorić elected on the list in the 7th election unit. The commission found that the resignation of the agent, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, as well as the conditions for the start of the parliamentary post of deputy representative Majda Buric, were laid down by law. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission under Article. 10, 11 and 42 century 2 Laws on election of MPs in HS and Art. 10 and 9 centuries 2 and art. 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes to the HS to decide on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and to initiate the conduct of the deputy deputy representative's office. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 10th century 4 of HS Rules of Procedure Domagoj Ivan Milosevic ends the parliamentary term on the day when the decision to terminate is reached by the Assembly. Majda Buric is a deputy deputy representative in accordance with Article. 9th century 2 of the HS Rules of Procedure begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Exchange Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u44587	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate on this wheel. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate, so we'll vote on that point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u44588	Let's vote now. First, the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, under 1. Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Luka Brčić and the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Luka Brčić. The debate is closed, and I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimous with 120 votes for the decision made as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Under 2. A report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of MP Domagoj Ivan Milosevic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative Majda Buric. The debate is closed, and I am voting on the proposal for that decision. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 123 votes are in favour, so a decision has been taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we're moving on to making an oath of attorney. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7 The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President read the text of the oath, after which he calls the MPs, the appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work with the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u44589	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u44590	Congratulations to the MPs, Welcome And I wish you a lot of success in future work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We are going to the final point, the selection, appointments and resolutions, is proposed by the Committee on Selection, appointments and administrative affairs, the debate is closed. I suggest, if you agree to hold a united vote on all 13 proposed decisions. Does anyone have a problem with that? If not, I am voting on proposal 13 decisions as tabled by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? In agreement with 117 votes, decisions were taken as proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs. Now we're gonna take a break by 13 o'clock, then there's free speeches, and then it's going to continue to work on the wheel that started this morning, and we're going to continue the session next Wednesday. Thank you, everyone. It's 12.42 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u52991	... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u52992	Just a second, somebody left the microphone on, so it's not working. Here it is, you can turn it on now. [[Intruder: Done.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u52993	Thank you. So, once again, based on art. 248 Rules of Procedure seek a recess on behalf of the Centre and the GLAS Party for 10 minutes to point out once again to the HS that the Police Labour Report for 2018 and 2019 has been brought together and that, for both years outside the prescribed deadline, the prescribed article. Four Laws of the Police. It is highly unacceptable for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia, and it is even less acceptable for the HS to allow and tolerate such behaviour and thereby the HS to violate its duties and obligations under the prescribed Article. 81 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that HS, among other things, oversees and controls the government's work. I appeal to all MPs, including representatives of the ruling majority, not to accept this report. In fact, as we are marking today the day of our decision on independence and sovereignty, how nicely you have introduced it, Mr. Chairman, to explain it, I find it devastating and sad to have representatives in HS, especially representatives of the ruling majority, who have neither independence nor sovereignty in making their decisions and in acting in their duties. So all those who hold to your honor should vote against, not show that you have exclusive obedience and loyalty to your own political party and to the party chief, not the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u52994	Thank you. My colleague Oreshković, I would ask you not to call other MPs because each of us has a conscience, acts on it, and you are not the one who will determine what is right and what is wrong, so please, I am giving you, of course, the right to request a break, but what you are doing is not correct because everyone here has a mandate, just like you, and many of them have a lot more votes than you have. So don't call MPs that way. We're going to vote now. Therefore, the report on the work of the police in 2018 and 2019 is accepted. Who's restrained? And who's against it? 119 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 1 abstention and 41 against, and the conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We are now moving on to the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the proposed president of the Republic of Croatia. I have a request for a break, colleague Pavlichek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53303	Dear President of HS, I request a 10-minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to further consult this proposal, but to mention once again that Zlata Djurdjevic is unacceptable to Croatian sovereigns. Namely, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. 115 clearly states that the judicial authority is independent and independent. If it is independent and independent, then it must not be ideologically colored, which is not the case with Zlata Djurdjevic. Zlata Djurdjevic is an exponent of left-liberal politics and what is worst, she accepted being a toy in the hands of Zoran Milanovic. Therefore, it is clear and loud that Zlati Djurdjevic is not by Croatian sovereigns.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53304	All right, break's approved. The second one's up, buddy Whitey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes, and to further discuss and point to the issue of the Croatian judiciary. I listened carefully to yesterday's debate of all clubs and I really don't understand that some who went to elections last year offering citizens of the Republic of Croatia, voters of change, and changes, now that they obviously don't want to come under cover of certain ideological, quotes, issues. I don't know. Zlata Djurdjevic, I don't know personally, but I know enough that there is no ideology in her, but it is only about a professional person, primarily a professional person who bothers all those who would change in principle, but those changes do not want to. The club of our parliamentary representatives will in any case support the proposal of the President of the Republic in the hope that other clubs will do so in order for the necessary changes in the Croatian judiciary to finally be launched. Not only have they entered into force but they have been launched because one person is not enough to initiate the necessary changes that we will all agree are absolutely necessary, especially given the things that have been happening in the Croatian judiciary over the past few months where the rightful convicted criminal and fugitive in front of the Croatian judiciary de facto triggered the avalanche of problems at the very top of the Croatian judiciary that have been being dragged away for several decades, I would dare say, and what we all must simply try once, at least, to put an end to. The President-in-Office's proposal was, in our view, an attempt to move in that direction, unfortunately from yesterday's debates, visible that it would not pass. I appeal to all MPs to reconsider and support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53306	The apartment is approved. Now a colleague of the coat of arms has come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53307	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I am asking for a 10-minute break to reconsider how we will vote on this proposal before us, and this is the proposal for the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is the proposal of my colleague Zlata Djurdjevic. But I won't talk about her. We talked about her yesterday enough. We talked about her expertise, we talked about her knowledge, we talked about her independence and her willingness to catch up with serious problems in the Croatian judiciary. I'll talk about something else. Today, we have an opportunity to choose between two options. One option, one school of opinion says that in the Croatian judiciary everything is fine. The school believes it's okay for the proceedings to last for decades. The school believes it is okay for Mr. Mamic, who is on the run in BiH, to make politics in the Croatian judiciary and generate judicial proceedings against judges. This policy believes it's okay to tolerate for years that some judges steal and get rich at the expense of justice. This policy believes that in the Croatian judiciary everything is fine and that it is absolutely correct that Croatia's competitiveness report for 2021 marks the lack of reforms in the judiciary as our biggest challenge to raise competitiveness. And that school of opinion will vote against today. But if you feel that all this is wrong, now you have the opportunity to show by one vote that you are willing to change it and if you are ready to do so, today you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53308	Stanka has been approved and now it's up to counterpart Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for 10 minutes. We also want to talk once again about the decision we announced, which is that we will not support the proposal that Zlata Djurdjevic be appointed, elected president of the VSRH. In fact, we want to talk about whether we want to have someone at the head of the Supreme Court who has accepted him running for the post of Supreme Court President in a way that he has not responded to a public call, in a way that he has not made and developed and presented a program that he intends to work as the President of the Supreme Court, and in this way he sent a message that he did not actually respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia. So our reasons aren't even... Neither this worldly one has anything to do with any other reason, but we really think it's important that the new public call that we're standing for, the new public call is called out in a more tolerated, in a much better atmosphere than it was today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, to be encouraged, to encourage candidates who have conditions and who can behave. Unfortunately, both public calls that preceded them did not contain and did not allow one such environment and we do not think that it is good and that it is not right. On this occasion, I would also like to thank those candidates who responded in such an atmosphere and who respected the public call, presented their programmes and participated in the discussion before the HS Justice Committee. So here are the reasons why we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53310	And this break will be approved. Now a colleague of the BArtulics has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53311	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Homeland Movement, I'm also looking for a break on this agenda point. First, I'm going to say what we're agreeing with Professor... Djurdjevic, we have read her programme, and even the letter sent to all MPs, we agree that more in Croatia should talk more openly about the responsibility of the judiciary to the citizens, the responsibility of the justice policy, we must not raise our hands from that situation that he would describe as desperate. Citizens don't know where to look anymore if things move, and that's where we agree. And we think her scientific work so far deserves respect. I've studied everything she's written so far, so in my presentation, I've explained why we're against it. In her letter that I cited, one of her scientific work on injustices that occurred during communism in many countries, she rightly says that victims need to be compensated as many countries have done. However, she did not say anything about how to treat the perpetrators of these injustices. Many countries I'm going to remind them that they've done a lustration unlike us, we haven't heard her thoughts on it. Therefore, our position does not seem to have anything personal against it, Mr. Milanovic has the right to suggest who he wants. It is exposed to many attacks in public space, I guess it is part of our policy because it is not always pleasant, but we still think it is not the best person for this function and here I took the opportunity to remind why we think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53312	The apartment is approved. The sixth is the honorary colleague of Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53313	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS advocates' club is also looking for a ten-minute break. Namely, this club thinks it's a professor. Djurdjevic is a good candidate, but it is a pity that the way to reach the candidate was not good and has been contaminated since the beginning. He was particularly contaminated on what he did. Djurdjevic notes that she has experienced it, but not only has she experienced it, the MPs in this House experienced it, members of other institutions experienced it, respected members of the academic community and public intellectuals who were the subject of diphtheria, slander and not only that, but denunciation because of their public, moral sense of how and what they should speak in which place. It contaminated the whole process, so it's not just about getting good candidates, although it's a very important thing, it's about how it is and what atmosphere we're getting in. If any uranium gets a hint that it will be a candidate, the rest of the good ones won't even go for it, if after that the whole process is contaminated as it was contaminated by a destructive rhetoric, inappropriately by any kind of political institution, in particular by some early periods of our democracy. And we've seen how it ended up in the judiciary, and that's what Professor O'Connor wrote about. Djurdjevic, but there is no reference in today's open letter about what is going on with regard to the destructive rhetoric of the highest notions of power when the difference in opinion is made, and that is why this club will be restrained, but I hope we will come to our senses and come to a good solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53314	Thank you very much. We're going to request a break from a respected colleague of Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm looking for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club. We have made it very clear in the debate that we will support Prof. Djurdjevic for Supreme Court President. We believe that this test, that this choice of maturity test for all MPs, is whether they can choose on the basis of objective and professional criteria. Prof. Djurdjevic also showed her work so far and her testimony at the committee hearing that she gave her excellence, her expertise and her professional and human integrity. I believe that the short-term political interests should be removed from this election. Prof. Djurdjevic offers a programme that offers solutions for all the neural points of the Croatian judiciary, that is the responsibility of judges, the opening of the judiciary to the public, the shortening of the deadlines for judicial proceedings, the improvement of the working conditions, the digitisation and all the automation of... procedures and everything that is to the justice of the cancer of the wounds. And that is why I ask once again for a break to highlight the need for the choice of such a professional and brilliant person who guarantees the beginning of changes in the Croatian judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53316	Thank you, too. Eighth, 8th request for a break, dear colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53317	I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club. In all this farce we have witnessed over the past months around this appointment where HS is reduced to a worthless institution that should participate in a play whose outcome is predetermined. We could have exposed all the key diseases of Croatian society. In the front row of what's called the left. A lot has been said lately about the Perkovic case. It's interesting that no one from the left has even asked that question. No one from the left-hand spectrum considers it important to consider what happened to the conjugal liquidations. It is not unexpected to know that there are those who asked Lex Perkovic and those who spoke about the need for UDBA to liquidate them more. At the same time, on the other hand, what is called the right hand in terms of two key spins that went on Professor Djurdjevic, about her position in the Perkovic case and her stance on the communist judiciary, we listen to the support of lies that she denied by the arguments in order to turn out to be a larger Croat and profit in political struggle. Supporting lies about someone is not patriotism, and taking part in the vote on something whose outcome you have served us in advance is not Croatia as we need and as we deserve, therefore the Club of Representatives Mosta refuses to be part of this entire farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53318	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53319	238 Demeanor I'm an agent. [[Intruder: Take off the mask just to hear from you.]] What's been repeated here several times already, I'd just like to make it right. Communism in Croatia has never been, as in the world, so let's just find out when we're already hitting on ideological dysfunctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53320	I can't give you much, uh, answer now, although this would really open a long debate about this issue, but I'm giving you a warning, I'm giving you a warning because you broke the Rules of Procedure. So, uh, now we're going to go to the vote. I call on the article of course. 293b, so we're not going to take a break. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the election of Zlata Djurdjevic as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 123 MPs and MPs voted, 37 were in favour, 5 abstentions and 81 against, and thus no decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia was taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53321	We are now moving to point two: - Attorney General's report on the work of persons with disabilities for 2020; She is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities under Article. 17 Law on the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Does the mayor, the reporter of the report, want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable Attorney for Persons with Disabilities, Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53322	Honorable MPs. I would like to thank you for the invitation and the opportunity to present my report to the Advocate General for 2020 From 2008 to today, in the full 13 years, we point to the position of persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. We talk about their rights, interests, we point to irregularities, we raise awareness of the public and institutions, experts in various areas, we empower and encourage people with disabilities, their loved ones, and parents of children with developmental difficulties that individually, as well as through associations fight for their rights, seek their rights and inform themselves. In this very sense, in order to bring the institution closer to all citizens, we have opened up as a strategic goal and we are opening up, i.e. The 3rd district office, so in 2018 it was in Slavonia, Osijek, for Split, or Dalmatia 2019, and since it was a crown, i.e. pandemic, we delayed it, so at the end of July this year the opening of the Regional Office in Rijeka. During 2020, we received complaints of over 2200, which gave physical and legal persons in which we acted over 4500 times. From that number, we have referred legal persons to the physical, private and public sector over 420 recommendations and warnings. The largest number of complaints arrived, except from the City of Zagreb from Slavonia and Dalmatia. As far as legislation is concerned, we have sent over 23 amendments and additions to legal and sublegal acts, given 74 opinions on different laws, strategies, documents. Although in 2020 it was actually the year that marked stagnation in legislative changes, and the results were actually part of our proposal and the opinions proposed in recent years, only actually resulted in a second quarter of this year, or 2021. The laws of crucial importance for persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities who have been anxiously expecting for years, such as the Law on Inclusive Adjunction, the Law on Personal Assistants and the New Law on Social Care, are still under discussion, while in the Law on Systemal Financing of Associations and the implementation of the National Framework for Perspectives and Diagnosis of Autism, as well as the adoption of the National Early Intervention Plan, we still haven't sufficiently considered, i.e. at the adoption stage. With regard to the powers involved in raising awareness and promoting the rights of persons with disabilities and their interests, we participated, organized and co-organised over 110 events in the country, but also over 40 abroad. As far as media exposure is concerned, we made over 300 statements throughout Croatia and sent 78 statements and different responses to newspaper articles. The impact of the Covid epidemic and the 2020 earthquake showed all the shortcomings in the system we have been pointing to for years. All citizens of Croatia, including persons with disabilities, have shown endurance and strength, but have been forced to change the way they live, the way they treat, and the way they die, the way they exercise their rights, as well as the provision of others. Everything that has actually happened in a particularly difficult way has affected the lives of people with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and their families. Problems such as insufficient number of professionals and staff in institutions in different fields, from health care to social care, lack of information literacy, not only persons with disabilities, but also workers in institutions, the necessary information on work processes, poor availability of different services, from transport and through isolation to lack and non-promotion, i.e. the termination of the rights of different services, from rehabilitation, social and educational programmes, are indeed for, and will show the consequences of physical, mental, emotional and social health. Often there was a lack of continuity in the provision of health services, and due to the burden of healthcare professionals, and in relation to the specific needs of people with disabilities, in hospital treatment, many have been neglected, which has led to a deterioration in health conditions. During the year, we followed the instructions and measures of the Institute of Public Health, which were carried out in relation to different categories of citizens and their data, in early 2021, there were 225 thousand infected persons in Croatia. Out of that number, almost 12% were people with disabilities. Of the 4,684 people killed by Covid, almost 38% were persons with disabilities. We've been following the way in which the epidemiological situation is handled through citizens' complaints. Regarding the epidemic, the largest number concerned labour rights, i.e. the need to ensure work from home, both for persons with disabilities, for their parents and other family members, who care for children and adults with disabilities. The biggest problem was the moment when kindergartens and schools were closed and when there was, in fact, the termination of half-day and daily stays and other programmes. Schools from home and distance as one of the forms of education particularly negatively affected students with developmental difficulties because in those conditions all professional support could not be provided at that time, so parents were, not only parents, but also as experts and as assistants in the follow-up and as a matter of fact, all those who could provide for children to master the required tasks. However, according to the latest instructions of the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as the Institute, in accordance with epidemiological measures, it is evident that there has been better preparation and better quality of thinking, education systems, insurance of continuing assistants, so that further emphasis has been placed on students with developmental difficulties whenever possible, teaching should be monitored from school premises with respect to epidemiological measures. In addition to the challenges related to pandemics, complaints about education that we receive on the basis of negative experiences of parents, they suggest that consistent application and interpretation of the rules adopted, as if indeed children can also have access to inclusive education. It is necessary to strengthen the professional competences of all employees, to ensure quality support and support for education, such as assistants in teaching and professional communications intermediaries, and necessary assistive technology and assistance. As regards higher education, it is necessary to develop an existing Law on scientific activity and higher education in order to identify students with disabilities and to provide them with continued and systematic support and adaptations necessary to overcome disability-related obstacles regardless of whether they are high education in institutions financed by the state budget or those in the private sector. In addition to education, there were no significant legislative activities in the field of work and employment. Persons with disabilities are still not equally represented on the labour market, which, of course, we see most often through complaints resulting from the failure to exercise the right of advantage in employment under equal conditions and from non-ensure of reasonable adaptation during the working process. We welcome the introduction of incentives co-financed transport costs for disabled persons, which has been a significant obstacle to access to the labour market that we have warned on for years, however, the right to support such as a working assistant has not yet been guaranteed, which would make it easier for many people with disabilities to enter the labour market. I repeat, we believe that in cases where persons with disabilities submit a request to ensure reasonable job adjustment, employers should be obliged to use professional rehabilitation services because they would thus have a specific tool through a more professional and objective approach, and would also prevent discrimination at the workplace and ensure appropriate adjustments and determine whether they are indeed justified and proportionate or disproportionate to the employer. When persons are not employed, they are either in the welfare system or using pension rights. She would point out that due to the overall inability to work in Croatia today, more than 40,000 people who have an average pension of 2,387 kuna were registered in Croatia. The disability pension due to the professional incompetence for the work of 63,000 in the average amount of less than 2,000 kuna, and only 4,847 of them are working. The most frequent complaints in this area referred to an insurance scheme with an increased duration, a long-term retirement procedure, but also complained about the calculation of pensions and the right to children's allowance. Self-employed persons with disabilities, craftsmen or self-employed persons have joined the abolition of the increased duration of their insurance and, respectively, retrogradely in violation of their fundamental rights. We have sent warnings and pointed to the illegality of such behaviour and the competent ministry has accepted our opinion as well as the opinion of individuals, and this year the disputed provisions have been amended. The increased number of complaints in social care clearly discusses the problems facing people with disabilities and their loved ones both because of poverty, poverty and inability to meet their basic needs. Low amounts of social benefits and strict censorships continue to limit the reach of social interventions, while complaints speak to a greater extent than ever before, they actually maintain, reflect the resignancy and complete indifference of the individuals themselves due to the conditions in which they live their lives. When services are not available or are limited in scope, and fees do not allow sufficient settlement of the need for independent life, unfortunately many people are placed in institutions where it becomes the only solution. It is the conditions of living in homes, limiting the freedom to go out last year and the inability to choose the activities that occurred as a result of the epidemic that we have received during the past period. In the end, I would like to look particularly closely at the area of accessibility and mobility and the situation of persons with disabilities, as well as the challenges that have exposed the crisis situations of earthquakes in which we have been faced over the past period. As a society, we have become aware that it is not the damage of a person that makes it impossible, but it is an obstacle in our environment. Despite the rules adopted, there has been no significant change in practice. We are also invited very often as a state that we are a top destination in tourism, while at the same time families whose members of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties are rarely able to access beaches, OPGs, stay in the country or stay with some private renters, and still many public authorities and institutions as well as other legal persons owned by architectural, orientation and communication inaccessible. In the transport of disabled persons, the most frequently complained about unadjusted public transport, especially local, inter-urban and inter-zonal, which is a particular problem in the hinterland, rural areas, islands. The problems remain with age of the rolling stock, incomparability of the vehicle and position, and inaccessibility to sufficiently adjusted vehicles, and restrictions during the '20s have even more than ever shown how important it is for people with disabilities to depend on or have their own transport. Again, as parents of children with disabilities have also told us, people with disabilities the right to be free from toll payments should be tied to the rightholder, not to the vehicle because they do not actually have the option either because of their poor living conditions or for some other reason to be able to own a personal vehicle. So the right holder should be the one with the right to be free of the toll. Again, we warn of problems with irregular parking because it is immeasurable and inexhaustible, an inexhaustible problem in designated parking places for disabled persons and abuse when exercising the right to accessibility. In the 2020 crisis, that association was often the only link between people with disabilities and systems. Indeed, they have played an immensely important role and remain the only service providers very often in many local environments where the health and quality of life depend directly on many people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. Nevertheless, the association was the first to face the impact of austerity and abolishing measures and of already approved projects, especially in some units of local and regional self-government, which has put many associations at risk even fighting for their own survival. From 2016 to 2020, the financing of services such as personal assistants was stable, in 2020, calls for late payment of ZNSs, national projects and projects financed by the European Social Fund are assessed per year or two, which means that this really led to major funding problems, and staff in the employment office as a contract body are constantly changing and there is no systematicity and timely approval of funding requirements. Therefore, we call on the competent authorities to establish systematic funding and ensure the survival of associations that many services are extended by the hand of the state and, as such, have to be respected. A crisis situation such as an earthquake has shown great solidarity for citizens especially with people with disabilities and families of children with disabilities. According to the citizens themselves who are experiencing severe consequences and based on information from the competent authorities, we have proposed establishing a system of support, creating a database, as well as further developing operational plans and plans containing protocols, evacuation and rescue. It has just been encouraged by our recommendations HZJZ has started with a process of making digital tools that could use emergency services in Croatia in the event of a disaster. It should therefore be possible to provide for actions and actions to use EU funds to provide for the financing of digital solutions as emergency emergency services in case of a need to save people with disabilities. We also warned about the need to ensure accessibility to container settlements as well as the restoration and construction of facilities. Many things I could still say in this introduction, but I certainly suggest that the defence reports are used because they contain a number of recommendations, individual, real, life examples, various proposals and solutions, and I believe that at all levels of this society, they can help us to turn our backs on each other and that what is being brought and discussed in this respected place is always for the benefit of each individual, especially for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53323	Thank you very much. We have a larger number of replicas reported, so let's take it in a row. He's the first respected representative of Cellic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Attorney, the earthquake put people with disabilities in a particularly unfavourable position, distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić, with her amendment, made it possible, according to the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake of persons with disabilities, and if it is possible for persons with disabilities to do so wherever possible to make these housing units accessible to persons with disabilities here, I would particularly point out the particularly affected areas such as the town quarter of Sub-Storage and Gornja Dubrava and where you have rightly stated that persons with disabilities should have a priority in restoring So here I'm using the opportunity for the ministry and our new mayor [[Intruder: Thank you.]] ask them to take care of it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53325	Thank you very much. The esteemed attorney if there's any need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53326	Here I thank you for your comments, and I think it's important, and we actually need to do everything possible to get the renovation started as soon as possible, and to really make this priority happen, to be connected to a family where members of people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53327	The Republic has a respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53328	Thank you very much. At the 11th month of the Council of Health and Social Policy, we held a valuable session on the importance of decubitus prevention. I think it was a constructive debate, you made a series of proposals and recommendations that you made to the Ministry of Health, the HZZO and the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. There we have brought forth a series of problems that our disabled people face, but not just them, we have stated that a multidisciplinary approach and the importance of decubitus prevention is needed. We also said there that perhaps in this regard you should amend the Regulation on orthopaedic aids, so since you have submitted proposals to the report on the amendment of the rules on orthopaedic aids, but the proposals have not been accepted, please give us an indication of exactly what your proposals were referring to. Is it just these decubitus prevention aids, so anti-decoubile mattresses or something? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53329	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53330	Well, indeed, in one minute, I can't answer this question completely, it's very clear in the report that it's said and explained, but what you could say in general is that we are always going to propose changes and additions to the list of aids that help people with disabilities point to, from the innovative and new ones, that simply out-of-date aids are being removed from the list, and that they are leaving a new one, and that everything that can help them from some technological solutions to improve the use of aids that are necessary for people with disabilities to have greater mobility and actually compensate for the disability that prevents them from being functional and more independent in everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53331	Dear Representative Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53332	The Honorable President, the esteemed Attorney General, care for disabled persons is the civilization's reach for our society. The highest social standards Croatia and Europe of heritage on its humanistic spiritual heritage, the basic settings of social democracy and Christian social tradition are involved in this concern. But I am saddened that there is too much emphasis on the mention of what has not been done without mentioning what is well done. Is there any manipulation in your opinion, and can those who have income and property censorship afford much to seek the help of institutions and are more needy and unhappy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53333	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53334	So what, why don't we name all those positive shifts in this report because then that report would have 800 pages, not 400. I think that here the government and all those who are from the executive authority are those who want and who will say for sure what has been positively done, it is up to me as the attorney's office to point out what people with disabilities and their members are bothering, what needs to be fixed in society, and I think this report should serve everyone like I said, as a correction, as extended actually recommendations that will use to be a better system than it is right now. Of course there is a shift, and I have cited and praised certain proposals that were accepted in 2020, given that this applies to 2020. And as for this part about censorship, I must say that we are in favour of abolishing both income and property censorship and that persons are granted the basis for the disability of the compensation that enables them. So I can settle those needs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And as far as I'm concerned, The other part... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53335	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed MPs, the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53336	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney, so I'm going to go back to a previous replica that was a respected colleague, which is a recommendation. So, through the text, you list the recommendations that have been and have been adopted, I would be interested in you know that, some indicative percentage of you are actively participating in your observations when you go through certain legal changes and you are giving, which are of course related to your portfolio, so I am interested in some percentage, and I think it would not be bad if maybe in a report, we have a single table in which you will only specify from these recommendations which have been accepted and that a certain result is seen because progress is certainly seen, progress is seen in each report. Of course we'd all like it to be better together, make it faster. Some things may be better and faster, some may not, but it would be convenient to know from that your participation so if it is possible in some procedure to refer to how much it is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53337	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53338	... So here, please come closer, related to counselling, the above orange table, so we suggested in 16 e-consultations, there were six unpublished, the total proposed provision 28, only one was accepted, in part 1, received 10 and not accepted 11. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] That only tells you about e-consultation. So one extremely minimal percentage was accepted last year, but we have to say that last year there weren't that many legal changes that were transferred to 2021. Looking at it that way and given the recommendations and opinions, I can always say that it's been going between 20% and 30%, and that's how it's been for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53339	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53340	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Slonšak, here I am not actually going to rephrase to you but to use this moment to once again as a man who has a child with developmental difficulties together emphasize the need for additional sensitization of the public and to ask you, and I believe that all of this will support the planning of some new actions because children with developmental difficulties tend to have a lot of problems in primary school education, namely peers are not overly tolerated. I believe that you could lead this, and we must support the action in which we will teach all the school children in Croatia that children with developmental difficulties are equal and that they absolutely deserve normal education like all other children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53341	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53342	So here's thanks for the proposal, and here's the State Secretary from the Ministry of Education, and I believe we're going to try something together to do about maybe some campaign or maybe some extra education tolerance in the education process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53343	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53344	Thank you, Vice President. Your esteemed attorneys pointed to an increase in the number of complaints about discrimination against children with developmental difficulties in enrolment in kindergarten. Children are disabled to enroll in kindergarten from because they need an assistant, and kindergartens are unable to provide an assistant. So please explain to me what all the instruments are needed to resolve this issue because it is obvious and evident that the state pedagogical standard of pre-school education is not respected and that children's rights are continuously violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53345	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53346	So regarding kindergarten enrollment certainly what is necessary is education from the beginning of the principals of these preschool institutions who in themselves already discriminate against their own lack of differentiation and non-recognition of the necessary support that is necessary for this child to be included in preschool education. Among other things, the legislative framework, as I have stated, is not respectable enough in practice and in those parts where it is good and where there are really great positive shifts and there is no respect. Of course, professional support is needed, I think that further employment of certain courses of professional profiles is needed in order for a child defined with specificities to master the programme, but I also say great understanding because many problems related to determining the classroom, staying in kindergarten, and saying all the support needed, but definitely education needs from the level of director to the staff working in the institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53347	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53348	Thank you very much. I am pleased to see that I will continue on this topic of education that we have positive shifts or a reduction in segregation as you have stated in the report and that students with developmental difficulties are getting more and more enrolled in regular schools. I am interested in whether they are enrolled in regular or some so-called special classrooms and what is the most common reason why certain schools still refer to enrolment in special institutions, is it misunderstanding or lack of professional services in general schools?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53349	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53350	The question is quite complex for one minute, but here is the general view of children being entered into the regular programme and the legislative regulation allows it. Support is mainly available, but there is a problem that a growing number of children are suffering from various damages that very often require these specially adapted programmes within regular programmes. Also, what we have complaints from certain areas is that it is especially to create new classrooms and there are few students who are in special classrooms so that in the regular process there are a number of problems that depend on the middle to the middle but with the support of the ministry we always try to solve these issues, but if there are problems, there are still problems, so here it is complex and it would require a little more than a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53351	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53352	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Advocate, we are all aware that in the past year 2020, in fact, all of us, so all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and thus the disabled, had to simply change our way of life and certainly the pandemic Covida had a particularly difficult impact on persons with disabilities, above all because of the fact that because of the epidemiological measures on the one hand, we had complete isolation, and on the other hand we had the primary need of persons with disabilities for services provided by other persons with direct contact. We are aware of the fact that all systems had to adapt, from health care, social care, education and ultimately to the whole economy. When it comes to the education system, it was already here and the basic adjustment was, in fact, a distance study where it proved that especially in the first lockdown, it was particularly difficult for students with developmental difficulties. However, a better adjustment was observed afterwards In a didactic sense [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and the possibility of monitoring the teaching with the assistant. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53353	Thank you very much, please, let's stick to the weather. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53354	Well, here's what I said in the report because what showed at the beginning of the problem, I think it's very important to work very hard on a technological approach, especially what we see is that it's simple digitisation and that it's necessary and in this sense it needs to come up with programs that will provide children with technology and innovation that will, among other things, be financed by parents but by the school system, that it's a systematic approach, that every child actually has that help and help that they need regardless of whether it's a person or it's some kind of technological solution, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53355	Honorable representative Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53356	Thank you, Vice President. We are all aware that in 2021, the 20th year was extremely difficult because of the pandemic and the earthquake, but I still have to notice that you in your report, and the rest of us noticed that you are stressing one, one lag behind in law making or missing the Social Care Act. At the 10th month, we talked about almost as soon as the Law on Inclusive Adjectives is not going to happen, and we also miss the Law on Personal Assistants. So, I think it's about time that these laws that haven't come here for so long on our benches and social care are just talking about the moments when some tragedy happens. They certainly made their position worse. and a person with disabilities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53357	Respected, esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53358	Well, what we all know, and we've heard here on the Health Committee that all the laws work parallelly. I think the laws are extremely important, they are intertwined in a series of services, which rights and in this sense I believe and I hope that they will be so complex and that they will not derivate certain situations, while at the same time people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties will really get the maximum that is expected from them. I think it's extremely important all three laws because they're actually the basis for other benefits and other rights related to disability.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53359	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney, as much as we make progress and steps forward, of course there's still room for improvement. You yourself said that this crisis that occurred with the disease caused by Covid-19 changed the way of life for people with disabilities and the way of dying. I must say, that sentence of yours was very striking to me because it shows all the difficulty of the problem. We know that other than institutions, people with disabilities can help and help different foundations and associations. I wonder if you may have an overview of how many foundations and associations are able to achieve certain rights through tenders which are being discussed by state institutions for specific programmes to help disabled people because we, as representatives of individual foundations and associations, have received complaints in this regard that these specific needs are competing. They don't recognize. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53361	Your Honor's Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53362	Well, here's the problem I don't have a review as such, but what we're taking over the year is usually certain complaints from citizens who say I don't know of a specific, I don't know of a specific programme or something has been abolished or cancelled, and then we get information actually that some associations or I don't know a certain organisation does not continue to carry out a certain service or something, but in that part I say we always question the competent ministry or unit of local and regional self-government, which is why certain problems or shifts have occurred. Sometimes it is a matter of delays in funds, but in 2020 it was really very specific and as such it was actually very often precisely the reason for the rerouting of funds related to the pandemic. Unfortunately, that's no excuse. Whereas these very associations which provide services are defined as fundamental to the general quality of the health and life of persons... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53363	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53364	The esteemed attorneys have come to us from some people, so I'm asking you, too, what do you think about equating the right to use certain services between wartime military people and civilian disabled people, for example? the right to exempt the payment of the annual fee for the use of public roads or the right to free transport by state ferry lines. So there are differences, for example, for civilian people with disabilities, they have to prove physical damage to the lower extremities of 80% until the wartime military disabled have to prove such a thing, especially that the lower extremities are damaged, so here's the difference between these rights to use certain services. Here, have you been contacted with these remarks and how did you react? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53365	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53366	So for years we've been dealing with this very difference that rights are secured for Croatian wartime wartime disableds or defenders, who are rights for disabled civilians, we're also handling ourselves as a lawyer, I have to be the attorney's office for people with disabilities, I repeat again, regardless of the cause, of age, of the damage. And as we protect the rights of civilian people with disabilities, so we protect the rights of those who speak to us, and that their consequences are the Homeland War or any other war consequences, regardless of what war we are talking about, we also have those from the NOB. So in this regard, we are interested in those who are disabled regardless of the cause of the age of disability being equal to the basis of disability. And whoever caused it, if the employer in this case is a country that is eating, related to the Homeland War then the state should single out those funds through some fund or other form to compensate for all those consequences caused by that person after the war That's what we keep saying and simply in that part. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] on that, but I'm saying that we're not looking for equalization, but that really... [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53367	Thank you very much, we have to stick to time because we have a lot of these and signed up and replicas, etc. Dear Representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53368	Respected in your presentation, you said that now in the Covid crisis you have seen major problems, among other things you have seen problems with the lack of informed business processes. Are these processes that are uninformed, are these core processes or are these processes some of the help that are not so important for the work, for the work of your institution? The second question, you also mentioned that you had problems with information literacy and you said that there was also informational illiteracy of employees, and that is actually disturbing if that is correct, so I would ask you to explain it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53369	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53370	I apologize, I didn't understand the first question at all, if we could repeat it, I really didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53371	So, you said you were having trouble informing business processes, are these information processes that are not informed of core processes that are extremely important to you for your business or are they some kind of auxiliary processes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53372	Here, it's clear enough, I let it happen because of the specificity of the situation, otherwise it's not common. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53373	I apologize, I have stated that this is the reason, these are some of the problems faced by people with disabilities during 2020. When I talked about information illiteracy, I thought about the problem of people with disabilities who reported themselves, who stressed that those like them needed additional education because they didn't have computers or computers or the Internet, many of them don't have property. As for staff by institutions, we have noticed that some have not met with certain programmes and have not been able to answer some questions between the meanings of persons with disabilities and certain representatives of individual institutions. So that was about them. And as for information, there was a problem with the part where at first the lockdown happened, and then it was always said that it couldn't be done. ensure that certain rights are guaranteed and that requests are made, and now we see that everything can be done through e-Citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53374	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53375	Thank you. Your Honorary Attorney, in your work you have touched the work of the Institute of Arts and you are very well acquainted, now the Office of Arts and you are very well familiar with the difficulties that this office has with the longevity of all procedures. Also now, the Croatian Defence Ministry is proposing the creation of new committees in order to establish status cases regarding the establishment of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid and such skills as artisans in separate separate committees. How do you comment on this, given that there are recommendations from the UN Committee on Persons with Disabilities, that all persons with disabilities should be treated in the same way and by equal terms in accordance with the regulations that we already have in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53376	Your Honor's Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53377	So we gave an opinion on what you said. We have.../incomprehensible/... advocated in the beginning that this work that started with the Law on the Single Body of Art really is as unique that it really brings about changes in society, that it speeds up the processes to bring everything in one place to people with disabilities, that when an expert is to be independent of the cause and we continue to put that attitude. So we haven't changed our minds here, we think we need to improve the system of art, that a certain body should be strengthened through conditions, through employees, through education, and that in fact we would stay in that part of it as we said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53378	The next replica of the respected representative Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53379	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed attorney when last year, late 2020, the beginning of 2021 finally arrived against Covid in Croatia, our prime minister, ministers, and many others were on their way to vaccination through order, persons with disabilities, your assistants, carers of both civilian and military disabilityes remained at the beginning of the column. I'd like to ask you to comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53380	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53381	I would like to comment on this in a way that as soon as we heard that the vaccine had come to Croatia, we have indeed been in cooperation with associations and persons with disabilities as well as parents brought the urgent recommendations that we have made to the Institute of Public Health, which was already at the end of 2020 and in early January 2021, we have addressed from the Institute and I must admit that HZZZ immediately introduced and published those recommendations. Also, I personally sent all the alliances and associations and everyone I know that people with disabilities, their families, close assistants have the opportunity to get a priority vaccination given that vaccination is voluntary and in that part I know that many in different environments and together with their local institutions have started. As for the person who's vaccinated, here's what we all know is what opinions are, and I'm also in that position. that priorities should be priorities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53382	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your esteemed attorneys can be monitored throughout the years as you repeat in your reports the same recommendations as for example. The need for early intervention and rehabilitation services for children with developmental difficulties, so please can you isolate those burning problems that are being repeated over the years and require the urgent activity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53384	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53385	This is how they are national, meaning the implementation of the national framework for the screening and diagnosis of autism, the establishment or adoption of a national plan for the establishment of an early intervention system for children with developmental difficulties, and then the laws of these three laws which are constantly speaking the Law on an inclusive supplement, the Law on.../incomprehensible/... assistant, the new Social Care Act. That's something we're talking about, so we can say one thing, since the office was actually founded, here's 13 years I can say we've been repeating everything except the new Social Care Act, but as far as disability-based benefits are concerned, definitely since 2008. In addition, there is this issue about traffic, so there should be an improvement in definitely the Transport Safety Act, as it goes, on road safety, then the law on the part that talks about the release of toll payments. Those are some regulations. which are simply definitions questionable for the adoption of that right. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53386	The next is the replica of the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53387	Thank you very much, Vice President. The pandemic made it difficult for all citizens and in all segments of our society in 2020, and you certainly talked about it. In particular, it would refer to the difficult business of economic operators and labour market difficulties. The government of the Republic of Croatia has directed 11.5 billion to preserve jobs or to preserve economic operators. Among other things, she included employees in the protection workshops, i.e. the integrated workshops employed by people with disabilities, according to the employee of 4,000 kuna. Please comment on how you evaluate these measures as having an effect?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53388	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53389	As regards the measures that talk about encouraging or continuing the work of employers and preserving jobs, we certainly commend and support this, of course, and it is certainly of interest that employers who employ persons with disabilities get everything that is possible that they have not at that difficult time fired persons with disabilities but have already kept them at work, but what is also important for those persons with disabilities who are independent craftsmen, independent employees, that they too had the opportunity to preserve their jobs, which was questionable at one point because of the funds that were then provided, but here they were eventually solved, but at the first moment was really a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53390	The next replica is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53391	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your report, you have touched all the segments of difficulty and life that are absolutely necessary. I would point out what relates to traffic, among other things, is also important in maritime transport and at the end of 2019, and it was reflected in 2020 that the Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport where extended rights and privileges for threefold were introduced. And what is very important is that such certificates for maritime transport have been issued for 5 years, which is certainly commendable that it is not renewed and renewed every year but after 5 years and thus the right to privileged tickets is realised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53392	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53393	So we commend certain changes, we took part in all these regulations, we made a really big contribution, and we held meetings and gave opinions. We also made certain comments in the report on this, so here, among other things, we stated that, just to find out, it means before the regulation of the proposal for the first issue of an island card, that persons with disabilities should be exempt from paying fees, as is the case in the first issue of an island ticket for passengers. As well as to standardise technical assumptions for the exercise of the right to transport vehicles free of charge to transport these categories of passengers. The proposals were not accepted, that's what we stressed in relation to other activities. In order to improve fleet accessibility, we also talked about how necessary it is to ensure between other improvements in accessibility because we know that Jadrolini still does not have adequately accessible ferry, catamarans and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53394	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53395	Thank you, dear Vice President. The esteemed defence attorneys in the Republic of Croatia have not yet systematically resolved the question of the right to live in a community of adults with an autism spectrum disorder. This means that the parents of these children ask a number of questions about what will be and how these children will be placed when they become adults and when parents will no longer be able to care for them. Most often they end up in large mastodon institutions where they live without a sense of intimacy and privacy which is scientifically assessed by an inadequate form of care for people with this disorder. On the other hand, we have several bright examples of the Association for Autism from Zagreb, it has already opened almost at the end of the 3 communities, the first in Mostars, the second in Jelkovec, and 3 in Vukšinc and yesterday in Sveto Ivan Zelina is laid a cornerstone for one organized The apartment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Can we together make more of such bright examples?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53396	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53397	Well, I think that we can, here and there is the secretary of state of the ministry responsible, and I think it's in the best interest for all of us to do everything we can to support these families and, of course, people with disabilities to stay in their own homes, but when they are really such demands and complex, complex damages as well as that support they really need then would be the best solution, however, such a form of housing requires adequate conditions as well as employees and support and expertise. And in that part, I think that we should also work on the existing programmes that provide services for organised housing because we see that today we have a problem with the lack of professionals in general who want and can work as well as motivations because these people today have really very low wages and low amounts for those can say very, very difficult and complex processes that work in their workplace. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53398	The next replica, the respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53399	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ombudsmans, we are Croatians known to be a solid people and to help people when they are natural disasters and troubles, but do you think that in everyday life we call healthy people in need and make life difficult for them? And the other thing is do you think that the assistants in the class are a great thing for students who seemed to have a much better atmosphere at school and that actually their schooling we've made happier than it's ever been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53400	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53401	Well, as far as assistants are concerned, I'd like to say that's one of the best-quality types of support that can be provided to children with certain kinds of difficulties. However, what is important to stress is that it is not one, the only form of support that very often parents and this one love, and they want to ensure it because the helper in the follow-up should indeed be an extended hand to that child and help to make what is easier to master the teaching process. However, there are other forms of support that are important, and for a child to master the teaching program and it should be watched fully. There are also technologies and different methods, doactic, etc., that I don't talk about what it's all about, so that the assistant in teaching but not for every child but for the child that really needs it. Regarding the first question, can you repeat the first question?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53402	No, thank you very much. Time's up anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53403	With regard to solidarity, I'd just like to say that we are solid, but not always what they show and relations between human beings in general. [[Intruder: Thank you we can't exceed that much time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53404	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, Renata Sablar Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53405	Good afternoon, dear Vice-President, Honorable Advocates, Representatives of the Government, both on the left and right, I am pleased that both ministries are present and respected colleagues, so the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed at its 27th session held on 23 June 2021 the report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2020, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities Act of 29 March 2021. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Article 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on that act. The opening argument was submitted by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities by stating the data for 2020 in which the Advocate's Office received 2266 complaints from natural and legal persons in whom they acted 4538 times. They also addressed 424 recommendations and warnings. As pointed out in 2020, the Covid-19 and earthquake epidemic brought about an increase in the problems facing people with disabilities. The isolation and absence of regular medical and social services with intended disabled persons has led to a difficult settlement of daily needs and the possibility of consequences in all forms of health. The largest number of complaints during the epidemic referred to labour law, the ability to work from home, the need to work from home because of a disabled child in case of self-insulation. Also low amounts of social benefits and strict censorships have limited the reach of social interventions, and the epidemic has further made it difficult or impossible to provide support through counselling and empowerment. Persons with disabilities continue to be at increased risk of poverty, there is also a lack of compliance of education with labour market needs, the epidemic has strengthened existing employment problems, the cost of involvement in the life community was mainly used to meet the basic needs of life. There are still strong obstacles to accessing information, health care, education, employment, labour and the right to compensation, given the disability, the Ombudsman pointed out in further presentation. As pointed out in 2020, legislative changes related to improving the situation of persons with disabilities were also stagnating and considers that it is necessary to adopt the new Social Care Act as soon as possible, the Law on Personal Assistant and the Inclusion Supplement Act. The representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, the family and the social policy, explaining the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the report submitted, pointed out that it was considered to be very informative and comprehensive and also promised that the new Social Care Act would be adopted by the end of this year, should enter into force on 1 January 2020 and the Law on Inclusive Appendix and the Law on Personal Assistant until the end of 2022, i.e. early 2023, because of the complexity of the situation and its financial demand. The Advocate also pointed out the specificity of the problem of persons with disabilities in situations where they are victims or witnesses of criminal offences suggesting that the Committee should reach a conclusion in this respect which would oblige the competent Ministry of Justice and Administration and the Judicial Academy to the necessity of education for judges and others and other judicial staff, and should specify the competent educator in this section in view of the specificity of persons with disabilities, which would certainly contribute to the improvement of their position and thus were agreed by the members of the Committee. They also agreed with the position and severity of the situation for people with disabilities during the Covida-10 epidemic, particularly regarding persons with mental disorders and elderly who are a particularly sensitive group in society. In this regard, the Committee member pointed out that despite the fact that the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disturbation entered into force in 2015 and improved the position of persons with mental disorders in terms of greater protection of their human rights in the application of that law, there are still difficulties in implementing certain legal provisions, which the Advocate also points to and believes that education of judicial experts can remove inequalities and misunderstandings, misunderstandings. In further discussion, the committee members referred to complaints addressed to the healthcare attorney or to the availability of health services due to the epidemic, the exercise of the right to treatment and physical therapy, home healthcare and hospital rehabilitation. They stressed the need for systematic vaccination promotions especially in people with disabilities, but also for all persons in their environment, urging the Ombudsman to continue to encourage cleavage. The members of the committee simply unanimously accepted and supported the report in question, stressing the need for reference to certain shortcomings and irregularities, all for the purpose of promoting and improving the rights and interests of disabled persons. After the discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for adoption the following conclusion. A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2020 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53406	Thank you very much. Before I open the debate, I need to say that we're making sure that we have a vote today, we have free speeches, we have a very large number of registered clubs, and especially individual debates, so if there's not a lot of replicas, we'll probably be up to four hours, so just keep in mind how things are now. But I'm opening a debate on this point and please don't yell from the scene, so it's not appropriate, we're going to have a debate and the first one will be the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which the re-respected representative, Renata Sablak Dračevac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53407	Here I am and I'm staying here.../incomprehensible/... that I will proceed immediately and I agree with you and certainly in these heats or the attorney general won't be simply this long with us participating in the discussion. I say hello to everyone one more time. Of course, in October of last year, we accepted the attorney general's report for 2019. In addition to all those problems that remained open from 2019 due to the Covid-19 epidemic and the 2020 earthquake, there was a significant collapse of human rights for people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. All the shortcomings in the system that the Ombudsman has been pointing to over the past year have further made life more difficult for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties manifested by complaints received from 2266 natural and legal persons in whom they have handled 4538 times and addressed 424 recommendations and warnings. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as well as persons with disabilities in 2020, were forced to change their way of life, the way of treatment, as the Ombudsman would say, and the way they die, the way they exercise their rights or those rights to others. Everything that has happened in a particularly difficult way has affected people with disabilities. Due to the risk of possible Covidom-19 infection, complete isolation is recommended, which is diametrically contrary to the primary need of persons with disabilities for services receiving direct contact from another person. In this way, with the need to protect them almost the most, they came into the position that they almost lost the most. HZZ data on the number of people with disabilities and deaths from Covida-19 disease indicate that 26.1. of 225,648 infected in Croatia 26.811 were persons with disabilities. The problem is the death toll means that from 4,684 people have died 1,766 people with disabilities. The ratio of people with disabilities to the general population in the event of fatal outcomes is 4 times higher than in the general population. Regular health needs of disabled people were put in a different plan, often delayed medical therapy, physical therapy in the house, health care. Due to the burden of healthcare professionals, the specific needs of persons with disabilities during hospital treatment have been neglected, leading to a deterioration in their health, in their health condition. The increased number of complaints clearly discusses the problems facing people with disabilities and their loved ones because of poverty, poverty and inability to meet basic needs. The low amount of social benefits and strict censorship limit the reach of social interactions, and the epidemic has further made it difficult to provide support through counselling and empowerment. It is observed that complaints from our citizens to a greater extent than they have ever been before reflect the rescribing and complete indifference over the conditions in which they live their lives. The Ombudsman therefore assesses the need to come up with ways to deal with social security, social protection, mental health in the community and the development of services for certain risk categories within people with disabilities. So the number of interventions in 2020 was 33.5% higher than in the previous year. The spread of the Covid-19 epidemic and the measures to combat it bring civil protection headquarters according to the HZZ guidelines marked 2020. In addition to the individual address of the Advocate, the Ombudsman continuously addressed recommendations to the competent authorities and to the interested public. Under the conditions of the pandemic, people with disabilities have found themselves under additional difficulties. From the lack of information due to an unadjusted way of reporting for people with hearing, vision and people with intellectual difficulties and the short benefits of different medical and social, inability to use different medical and social services, increased risks such as from domestic violence and to harshly restricting the freedom of movement of users of social care institutions. In particular, the needs of people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities were not taken into account when the epidemiological measures were taken. As a result, the necessary support services in everyday operation are left behind. Discontinuation of the work of educational institutions and all social service providers has created a major problem for employed parents since the number of employers, employees of persons with disabilities and parents of children with developmental disabilities, family members who care for persons with disabilities are referred to recommendations on the necessity of providing work from home, and recommendations on the need to adopt a package of measures to ensure childcare with disabilities and adults with disabilities, while retaining jobs and financing security. Employers generally accepted the recommendations and sought to bring their own business into line with the family needs of employees. The lawyer is in the report, and so I will only mention that there has been an online session on the importance of decubitus prevention, as the colleague has already stated at that session, we have made some recommendations to raise the standard because this problem of lying people is great and the complications are important and we definitely need to work on it. The biggest problem, however, is the trombone of passing adequate laws. So as the lawyer would say, legislative changes related to improving the situation of people with disabilities have also stagnated. The Advocate-General considers it necessary to adopt as soon as possible the new Social Care Act, the Law on the Personal Assistant and the Act on an Inclusive Appendix. Social care, the care of the most endangered shows the quality of the functioning of the innate, orderly state. We only talk about social care and worry about it when there's a tragedy. The new Law on Social Care was long to come into effect, and we, he still did not go into proceedings or go into debate, not only to the assembly but also to the government. So, the big problem is that we're slow, we're trompy, we're inert, and we need this law so badly. Let's not wait till the beginning of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53408	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of whom the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53409	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In 2020, well-respected lawyers, colleagues and colleagues were by all means an outstanding year for all people in Croatia. Together, as some coordinated action, we were struck by Covid-19 and the earthquake in Zagreb and neighbouring counties. It's been a stressful year for everyone. The year that tried us to the last frontiers. And the particular burden of events in 2020 was for those among us who, for any reason, belong to a vulnerable group. We have in various discussions so far warned that many things have turned upside down overnight and that a serious problem for the normal functioning of people. The very danger of contagion and its possible consequences was a huge challenge. The health system, led by Minister Beros, was not well organised with the patronage of Prime Minister Plenkovic. The possibility of preventive and diagnostic and other examinations and procedures is significantly difficult. The availability of health institutions has decreased or has become unreachable. The measures introduced by the crown have reduced human mobility, direct contacts and access to various services or institutions. An earthquake in Zagreb and neighbouring counties has also brought its own package of problems. The damaged buildings, houses, jobs, health facilities were all a huge burden for people and made life more difficult. A new normal overnight has become completely insane. The way of life has changed for everyone. At the very beginning of its report, the Ombudsman presents a very serious assessment and I will quote: "In 2020 there was a significant collapse of human rights for people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities." All the failures in the system that the Ombudsman has been warned of over the past year have made life more difficult for them. All this has happened and everything that happened in a particularly difficult way has affected the person with disabilities is being warned by the attorney general. And there's really no reason to believe it. That also tells us common sense, and the lawyer’s words only painfully confirm especially in the part in which she says that, with the need to protect them most, they have come to the position that they have lost the most. The rights of disabled people are not some gift or goodwill of the state. They are there to ensure that as much as equal to an unequal position and to ensure that such equal initial positions from which people with disabilities move into some very everyday and vital things of life. They're for example. education, employment, access to institutions and social, cultural, political life of the community and of course health care. Our country seems to me never fully understood it this way, so policies are unequal, measures are uncoordinated and the very attitude towards people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties is still based on this basic idea of ensuring equal opportunities. And then we've got this unfortunate 2020 when this unfinished and unspeakable system full of holes shows its true face and all its faults. The Ombudsman cites a number of situations where people with disabilities have faced huge problems and difficulties. One part of this is a variety of institutions with insufficient numbers of experts or at least experts with the necessary skills, poorly equipped with poor availability of services and fully unprepared for work in exceptional circumstances. The other big problem is health care. A theme that we have discussed in various ways and in the assembly always with the conclusion of the parliamentary majority that everything is in the best order, but of course we all know that it is not that far from it. That's confirmed by the attorney general's report, and now the D.A.'s report for people with disabilities. The D.A. stressed the difficult conditions for people with disabilities due to an outbreak of the coronary virus. The conditions of staff shortages, insufficient anti-decubital equipment and aids, strict measures to close social care institutions and ban visits have already made the difficult side of long-term lying people worse. Those living in their own homes faced inadequate support, insufficient number and quantity of supplies and difficulty accessing the health system or treatment. Unfortunately, half a million people with disabilities in Croatia, and we read about it year after year in the defence attorney's reports and without a crown or earthquake, there are many problems. In education, on the labour market, in the achievement of healthcare, participation in what we call a normal life of people with disabilities has been cut off at every turn. And achieving equal opportunities for people with disabilities is not and must never be a question of someone's goodwill. It is not a question of compassion, giving, caritativeness, goodness, helping the social or any other, and the wrong name that we can or want to use. The issue of equality and equal opportunities for people with disabilities is the issue of achieving fundamental human and civil rights. One of the many painful points I'm talking about now is employment. The lawyer this year writes that complaints in that part of the content are no different from complaints from previous years. The problems are in the way in which contracts are conducted. The right to take advantage of employment under equal conditions is denied and there is no reasonable adjustment in employment at work. From the first steps in education to the tender for the job of a disabled person, they face obstacles that should not be met. A particularly worrying topic is the question of women with disabilities. They are also highlighted as a particularly endangered group this year. The Ombudsman warns us that, with daily obstacles, frequent discrimination from health care to employment and work, demeaning and marginalising in various living circumstances, and lack of support from the closest in the system, mental health problems have also arisen. The position of women with disabilities in Croatia is nowhere near the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I am saddened that in 2021, the Ombudsman must re-write a sentence that warns the state that it is obliged to take measures to recognise women with disabilities fundamental human rights. The problem we are still citing and still warning about is fundamental human rights. In my reply to the lawyer, I warned of one fact, which is that it seems to me that it would be a good future that in the reports and this short part that we get in some way emphasizes how much of this recommendation is accepted, the entire office is extremely active in participating whenever it comes to public debate, so by e-consultation on any bill, it makes recommendations but what would be good to know would be good to know in which way and to what extent they are respected. So it would also be good to systematically count them down and do one review because it is one and the purpose of the public but also the purpose of the debate to see what has been done from year to year because it is something that is important. For example, the attorney general said that about 60% of her recommendations were adopted. You're about 20 to 30 percent, so it would be convenient to see it a little bit and thus be more informed about the basic idea, which is that things change. To turn the attorney general's hard work into concrete steps forward. As the most legislative body, then we could go further into the reasons why recommendations are not adopted, and if they are not adopted and what we can do on our part to change. We always get a very, very comprehensive report and this time the Club of the Centre and GLAS will also support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53410	The next Club of Representatives will be the green-left block, and Ursha representative Raukar Gamulin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53411	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honorary Attorney, before I begin my presentation on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club, I must express my disagreement with the chairman who tried to shorten the debate over today's vote. And that's why I suggest that next time these and such important topics are put more carefully into the assembly schedule so that there's plenty of time and that we don't have to be nervous, here's thank you very much. Therefore, the full and comprehensive report on 350 pages shows the great activity of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and, of course, its associates, above all, in pointing out the need to adopt strategic and systematic solutions necessary for the inclusion of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in the regular living conditions of the community in which they live. In that sense, it is not doubtful whether this report should be accepted, we at the Green-Left Block Club of course accept it, should accept it and not only accept it but also strongly support its recommendations at all points. I note that the report refers to 13% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, namely so many people with disabilities, means almost half a million of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. This report reveals all the weaknesses of the country's institutions that we can freely call carelessness and even indifference in some areas. Given the shortness of time I have available, I will point only to some of the most critical points in the accompanying report. The past, as we have already said, and we all know, of course, a very difficult year marked by Covid and the earthquake, the earthquakes for this most vulnerable social group literally meant mere survival and struggle for the basic needs of life. It is alarming that the mortality of people with disabilities who suffered from Covida-19 was significantly higher than the general population, it moved close to 40%. At a time when daily life for all of us was reduced, for people with disabilities and their families it meant losing their right to basic health, social, educational and all other services and concerns. The isolation and abandonment of the family without the need for social support has had a significant impact on the overall stability of the family, especially in the field of mental health. The fundamental principles of independent life insurance of all categories of human rights and family-oriented support as the fundamental concepts of politics towards people with disabilities in this crisis have actually remained a dead letter on paper. Personal assistants, affordable transport, education, housing, health and social services were all unfortunately reduced to a minimum in the past year. It seems to me that all the problems these people have been dealing with every day are somehow under the radar of the public, as if they weren't there at all. According to their own knowledge, the greatest burden has been taken over by families and associations of people with disabilities, and I hope this will motivate us to amend the rules governing the status and financing of civil society organisations. These regulations are inflexible in identifying extremely difficult social situations and crises. Empowering families and associations of disabled persons is also a permanent priority for the government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as for us in the assembly. The overall consequences of the crisis and severe 2020 are likely to be long-term for this population, and research will only show which areas of life are the most endangered. But I will especially remain on a group of people with disabilities who have wrongly fallen out of the public's focus or, in fact, better said or never been focused. I mean people with mental health problems, so people with psychosocial difficulties who are more than 20% disabled in the overall population. This category of persons with disabilities due to the absence of an outpatient treatment and rehabilitation system is the most numerous by accommodation in the institution. Once placed in institutions, they are excluded from the rehabilitation and requalification programme for disabled persons and are not included in other measures that the state seeks to improve the position of disabled persons. The Ombudsman repeatedly pointed out the need to introduce comprehensive measures, transform the system and develop a new approach to the treatment and rehabilitation of persons with psychosocial difficulties based on community health protection. I remind you that the strategy for the protection of mental health expired in 2016, its objectives are mostly not realised, and the new strategy is still waiting here for 5 years. During that time, our fellow citizens with psychosocial difficulties, with mental health difficulties, live without the fixed elemental conditions on the sidelines of society. The report also highlighted the painful problem of the absence of an overall early intervention system and rehabilitation services for children with developmental difficulties. The prosecutor has also repeatedly warned the competent ministries and institutions about the need to address this problem. Namely, the Republic of Croatia does not have an early intervention system to address a number of issues such as the availability of all necessary rehabilitation procedures, such as logos, educational rehabilitators, sensory, physical therapy, etc. Then meaningful inter-resor and inter-institutional cooperation, compliance with rules relating to the rights of parents and children, and the primary issue of early rehabilitation support to a child regardless of which and how much developed environment he lives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the UNICEF presented the results of the first comprehensive analysis of early intervention services in Croatia conducted by the Raiz Institute with the support of the Ministry of Health according to which 24.169 children aged 0 to 5 years in Croatia are potential recipients of early childhood intervention services, and only 1 out of 8 potential recipients and receive these services. I stress only one of eight children of potential users is receiving early intervention service. This report mentions the exceptional importance of the adoption of a national plan for early intervention as well as the implementation of a national framework for the diagnostics of autism. It's been talking about it for too long and too long. It's really a last-minute thing to finally start with the activity. The Ombudsman repeatedly and persistently points to the problem of all levels of government and institutions are obliged to act towards the protection of the most vulnerable groups of children, but responsibility for systematic solutions is primarily with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let us remind ourselves that exactly the defence system is a direct channel for communication with citizens and their problems and difficulties. The Ombudsman's reports for people with disabilities should therefore not only be taken as criticism, but rather as a possibility but also as a duty of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Assembly to make it possible, according to its recommendations and proposals, to enable that vulnerable and so often forgotten group of our fellow citizens to be worthy of conditions and equality with all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the Green-Left bloc Club supports the Ombudsman's natural report for people with disabilities with an emphasis on recommendations at all points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53412	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and Ljubica Lukacic will speak with a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to start by saying that the HDZ Club will support the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities. This is a report as well as every year very broadly, many would say, many say great but I view this report as one document that will serve all of us and always, therefore, which is very informative and from which we can read more or less everything we care about, and related to people with disabilities. So, today, more or less, everyone has warned that the past 2020 has been very challenging, both for people with disabilities. The pandemic, the earthquake, and not to list any other regular difficulties that people with disabilities have given theirs in this year 2020. But I would say that people with disabilities have endured it as always, and I have to say that knowing a large part of people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia know that in the past year they have fought and fought many and with the Crown, and many with other difficulties. Of course, there are always those difficulties that have not been solved yet and we expect that, if they were to be solved too, we can’t solve everything quickly, and sometimes I would say many problems for people with disabilities are not solved for one simple reason, and this is a long time ago we didn’t know who the person with disabilities and problems systematically could not be solved. I am pleased to point out here that we have finally come and solved this problem and that HZJZ will soon start issuing the document it will be a confirmation that will prove the status of the disabled. When we have come to this solution, I can freely say that we will be far easier to solve problems, so when I say we solve problems because it is necessary first to adopt new laws or any changes and additions to the existing ones in order to raise the status of disabled people to an envious level. The lawyer in her report therefore warns of everything that is not good, it is the counsel's task, but here I think it is necessary to mention at least some of the things that we have all done together good and thus made life easier for people with disabilities. Today someone has already mentioned here here very recently now I will repeat the Law on the rebuilding of buildings in earthquake affected areas, so we have allowed disabled people not to have to participate in the restoration of their houses or apartments. That's what I have to say on this occasion, thank you in some way for the great satisfaction of both the Prime Minister and the Minister Horvat who said right at first when the law came and before it came to our benches, but when I warned that we had to more concretely define people with disabilities wide open doors and allow us to agree what it would look like. We have made a big step by making instructions that, in the instructions issued by the Minister of Labour and Pensions System, I would say to persons with disabilities who can exercise the right to a free renewal, indeed, in the best possible way for persons with disabilities who can exercise the right. And when I say that we've made a step, I mean that, given the art, we've made one good cut from the last system to this system, and that we have indeed listed all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. And we will be able to benefit from that guidance for future purposes in all other systems. I will briefly look back at the work and employment of people with disabilities, that is what is very important and today many have talked about it and I will note that the Government of the Republic of Croatia allocated significant funds in 2020 when it comes to employment, that is about 130 million kuna, one part via the HZZ, the other part through the Office of Arts. In total this amount, more people with disabilities were employed, and it was included through the Employment Office 1,019 people with disabilities and 20 million kunas were spent for their employment. In total, we can say that a slightly smaller person with disabilities is employed compared to 2019, of course because of the pandemic, and I believe that this information for 2021 will be different that people with disabilities will start to employ more easily, and in this year, since the Institute of Arts has also brought some new incentives that will allow people with disabilities easier employment. When it comes to equal and equal opportunities and equal conditions, I would not say that people with disabilities do not have equal opportunities, the same conditions even have in employment and priority, but it is very important what obstacles are in the heads of all of us, and I mean employers who need to hire people with disabilities. You can make legal conditions much more favourable, we in some laws have positive discrimination, but barriers in people's heads are difficult to change. Many today feel that people with disabilities cannot be good workers, but when they hire a disabled person, they change their mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53414	Thank you very much. The next representative, the next Club of Representatives, will be the one of the IDS, and will speak to the respected representative Marin Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53415	The position of persons with disabilities in society and their everyday life is always demanding and difficult, however, at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, the situation is further difficult as it comes from this report. In some parts of Croatia, devastating earthquakes occurred during 2020 and new challenges for people with disabilities occurred so that the Ombudsman correctly assesses that in 2020 there has been a significant collapse of human rights for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. However, the question arises as to what we as a society, as a country as a whole, but also as parliamentary representatives can do to raise the standard and make everyday life easier for people with disabilities. One of the priorities should certainly be to regulate the issues of personal assistants through the vote of the new law in order to extend the circle of users of personal assistants since they are of great importance to persons with specific needs. Unfortunately, however, we see that the adoption of the Law on Personal Assistants is delayed year after year, which actually makes it impossible to create a prerequisite for a better quality life for people with disabilities. The statements from the resolution ministry are quite general, certain working groups are mentioned but there are still no concrete dates and deadlines when the law could be passed or could enter into force. So after 15 years from far 2006 personal assistance services are still carried out only pilot projects through disabled persons' associations and we really believe that it is high time to solve this problem. The situation is similar when we talk about increasing personal disability and adopting the Act on Inclusive Supplement. During the adoption of the State budget by 2021, we, as the IDS Club, proposed an amendment to increase this amount of personal disability by less than 250 kuna and from 1,500 to 1,750, and then we pointed out that this is modest, but that this is a small step forward to make the disabled's life of something more small. However, the amendment has been rejected, and we believe that when we adopt the following budget, we should also think from the resolution ministry, but also from the Ministry of Finance, to resolve it because we also know that money is less and less valuable, we have inflation and what was worth 2 or 3 years ago 1,500 kuna, today is worth less. I therefore call on the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy as well as the Ministry of Finance to take care of the following budget because if there is an actual political will to help people with disabilities, then there will certainly be funding. The report, precisely for the end, underlines a sentence that best paints the attitude of the state and institutions towards citizens, and thus to persons with disabilities, and in short it reads this way. The strength and endurance of our citizens have been demonstrated, and on the other hand, it has exposed all the weaknesses of the institutions. And that's the key problem that we have to solve in the years ahead. To encourage state institutions to do their job, to help citizens because that's why they're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53416	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53417	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Secretary of State with Associates, I apologize to the Advocate and Secretary of State, we know and we ourselves should not be a prophet, nor know how difficult it was for all of us in 2020, and it is understood that it is particularly difficult for people with disabilities, for children with developmental difficulties and of course their family, their guardians and all those who help them get closer to something that we can call normal life. By reading this, we can freely say a comprehensive report, you can't help but feel anxious. One of the bigger problems that we can see and read from it is how to fit people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in society in a rational but at the same time acceptable to them, their guardians, their family, how to bring legal regulations in line sometimes too much and sometimes too little or no use at all, respect and apply. I will remind myself of another one in the period when a long-awaited vaccine became available at the end of the year, people with disabilities complained that as a priority vaccination group, there are no persons who provide personal assistance services and persons who provide care and assistance to Croatian wartime disabled people from the Homeland War. We have indicated as representatives of the Homeland Movement at that time on the need to vaccinate parents with developmental difficulties, as well as parents with disabilities, unfortunately with all the rushes it did not happen within the expected time. The past year has also been remembered by catastrophic earthquakes. At the end of the year Sisak-moslavačka, Karlovačka and Zagrebačka, the beginning of the City of Zagreb, Zagreb and Krapinsko-Zagorska. This natural disaster has only further awakened and deepened many of the problems of people with disabilities associated with housing. Weaknesses in the housing system, difficulties in coordinating the activities of different stakeholders in the care of disabled persons as well as reports and assessments of earthquake damage have been revealed. We ourselves came to Banovina to witness several direct calls made to us on the ground by persons who had terrible problems simply coming out of their apartments or houses. We helped as much as we could. What is so sad and worrying is that the difficult conditions in 2020 have really led people with disabilities to the edge of existence. He fears that out of the total number of deaths from Covida-19 disease, as many as 40% were disabled. It's a terrible number that shows how difficult they've actually had in the past year, how weak or in no way they've exercised their rights to life that we all have a complete right to. A few words and about systematic discrimination mainly related to the report. We have again failed to adopt amendments and amendments in the legislative framework, so no steps have been taken towards removing the systemic discrimination that exists in laws and regulations and, among other things, puts certain categories of disabled persons in a more unfavourable position on others on the basis of the cause of disability. In doing so, I warn and remind people of the same type of disability who exercise greater rights financed from the state budget when the cause of disability is due to war events. It is noted that in the parliamentary debate, we currently have the Civil Disabilities Act which should remove some of the causes of this injustice, which is why the DP's Club of Representatives stands for. In this proposal, we are silenced by other things entirely, but here is neither the time nor the place to talk about them. A very important part of the report should certainly be mentioned, and these are infringements of the rights of women with disabilities. By reading the report I was deeply concerned, I knew there were problems, but when I looked at how many rights are not recognised or not respected, these are health rights, partnership, motherhood, education, employment there are also the sufferings of various forms of violence mostly women with disabilities are further discriminated against. The position of a woman with disabilities is not even close to the requirements of the convention. We therefore fully agree with the report's recommendation to take measures to recognise women with disabilities fundamental human rights. As I also note in our own family, we have a child with developmental difficulties, so here are just a few real examples of life that we often do not meet daily as a family. In kindergarten groups and school classes, it is sometimes impossible to respect the pedagogical standard, especially in the densely populated urban environments, so children with developmental difficulties cannot be provided adequate care and education. Professional services unfortunately suffer from a lack of highly educated and professional staff, and therefore many irregularities can also be seen in dealing with children with developmental difficulties. Some, of course, are not intended, most of them are not intended, but simply there are no people, perhaps even paying enough motivation for people to enter that part of the system. It is mentioned here in the debate that some kindergartens also avoid receiving a child with developmental difficulties in groups because they simply have no hearing about it. There are other problems in the approach. We know for ourselves how difficult it is for disabled people to get to some basic life stuff, how much what seems to us completely normal and about which we don't even break the head of one single second, which is to go into a store, go to a movie, a doctor or anything else simply because of the inability to access becomes impossible. A special problem, since we are here in Zagreb, the largest Croatian city we can see every day that parking places, it will be known better than I or especially marked parking spaces in the City of Zagreb, but it is a public secret that parking certificates in such places can be obtained through a single drunk coffee with some people who will bring it to you, print it, and that reminds me once again of that extraordinary sign on the plates, if you take my place, will you take my disability too. There would really invite all the competent services to carry out an audit of parking permits in such disabled or privileged places and to have those who short and clear human beings parked there well and fairly hit the pocket. We know that's the problem, but you'd remind and ask again, and here's Mr. Secretary of State here, my little nephew is going to primary school and he's very afraid, afraid of it. He's a kid with developmental difficulties, he's afraid of school, he's not easy, he knows what's waiting for him there. I remember when they asked one tough warrior who'd been through a few wars in his life, where it was the hardest thing for you, he said in elementary school it was the most ruthless place in the world. So, let's all start together one action primarily aimed at children of primary school age to sensitize them, to teach them that their little boy or girl is equal, worthy of the same treatment because these children are difficult and suffering from psychological disorders, they are afraid to go to school because they know that sometimes they will be even subject to mockery. And as a society, we as individuals must always have a great truth in ourselves. One person's humanity as well as the quality of one society is primarily seen in relation to the weaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53418	The next Club of Representatives will be the MOST, and the honourable representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53419	The position of persons with disabilities in society, the fight for their rights and the possibility of achieving their rights is also a measure of the social democratic standard. This is particularly important and particularly challenging today, today when we live in a time of great technical and technological challenges. A time that puts people with disabilities in a particularly unfavourable position in front of all of us as something normal, as a standard, biological perfection. In this sense, it should be constantly reminded that there are countries like Iceland who boast that people with Down syndrome will no longer be born in them because if we already have that freedom that we are fighting for and the possibility of a choice is born in the first place by someone who is biologically imperfect. It's one of the key messages society is sending us today. Similarly true in sport, on the one hand we have a sport adapted to disabled people, on the other hand we send a message that neither the basic biological predisposition is enough to succeed in modern sports but should use different illegal means to overcome our biological tasks. This is the most important challenge we face when we talk about people with disabilities and there is that sensitivity that we should continue to build in promoting their rights. Because what kind of society are we here at the same time talking about the rights of people with disabilities while parallel events so-called. advanced processes suggesting that such persons should not even be born. I have to say an introduction to the report itself, this report must be one of the better reports we've had a chance to read. The reason for that is a few. The first thing that is worth pointing out is that according to the number of complaints brought by people with disabilities, we can conclude that they recognized that institution as an important institution fighting for their rights. Especially if we compare this with some other number of complaints to some other institutions and so on to the Croatian Assembly whose Committee on Presentations and Appeals, and the most important body in the country receives a far fewer complaints or citizens did not recognise it in this regard as a relevant body. Secondly, given the challenges we have witnessed in the past year, primarily to the impact of Covid on the crisis and earthquake, it can be said that this report has fully achieved its function. So this report really gives us a detailed overview of how people with disabilities and more importantly give us concrete recommendations on how to improve their status so that these failures that we have all witnessed that put them in a particularly unfavourable position would no longer occur. I would like to remind you that the report that we discussed when we talked to other lawyers did not offer the same detailed representation and answer to this all that happened to us in the earthquake and the crown situation, and that is what we need to hear about each Ombudsman individually if we are talking about gender versus both sexes, if we talk about children as such and if we are talking about the Ombudsman, of course, about Croatian citizens. For those with disabilities, we can see what they lacked and what we can change in that sense. When we talk about the key problems that people with disabilities have encountered in this crisis, it is worth pointing out some of the things that we may have overlooked, and this should certainly not happen to us in the future. One is the isolation in which people with disabilities were placed and what is a double problem. It was a problem during the Covid crisis due to the inability to access basic health services, and the biggest problem is in crises such as the one that happened with the earthquake when the question of certain disability is whether a person with disabilities given the inadequacy and housing conditions in which many of them live at all are able to react at the time when the earthquake hits us. Is this person even able to save a naked life? This is what we all need to think about when we talk about earthquakes and what is available to people with disabilities. The particular problem was what we learn in the report, and it will continue to be what masks bring to us, which is communication between deaf people and masks. Therefore, as the Ombudsman rightly points out, during the duration of the epidemic, several deaf and deaf persons with a complaint that they have been made important by daily communication with doctors, nurses, pharmacists, merchants and other staff in institutions. So they can't read lips when we're wearing masks. Have we really done enough to face their problem? When we talk about victims of violence which was a double problem and violence that was greatly potent during the Covid crisis, and then during the earthquake, there was a Sisak-Moslavina County more recently than in the rest of the country, where the figures were much greater than in the rest of the country. So it is worth mentioning that when we talk about victims of domestic violence, unlike victims of family violence that are not persons with disabilities where we have a dramatic and worrying number of women as victims of domestic violence compared to men, when it comes to persons with disabilities, and the numbers are getting much closer or the gender difference is much smaller, which shows that our social victims as such are primarily weaker ones. And in this regard, people with disabilities in these cases are hit twice, so special attention should be paid and social responsibility should be developed to help them in cases of domestic violence regardless of the gender. Because when we talk about victims of domestic violence, many men with disabilities are also victims of domestic violence just like women. So, as regards employment, it is worth noting that there is still one of the biggest problems that there is a rise in employment of people with disabilities compared to previous years was only 3%, and even more than the rise in employment, we return to the basic problems that we are constantly facing, which is at all an approach to testing people with disabilities where they do not have adequate conditions that have been given them in advance so that we can at all show our abilities and thus compete for that place, and then what follows after their employment, and that is discrimination at the workplace where there is also significant attention which shows that this is not a single measure that we can use here with some legislative change rather than a wider social problem that concerns the lives of persons with disabilities at all, and then their ability to access to the workplace. In conclusion, I want to highlight one positive trend, which is that this year for the first time we had a person with disabilities in one of the highest educational institutions. This is about the National Science Council in which a person with disabilities has been appointed. And it's a strong and important message, I believe that we can also thank the D.A. for it, so who was doing the job of raising awareness about the problems of people with disabilities in education. But this is the society we need to strive for, a society that does not know the limitations of people with disabilities and that enables them to prove themselves at the highest level of education, and then to act in control of that same education at the highest level. Fortunately, we have a positive trend here that such individuals have managed to become involved in the most important institutions of the higher education system. So I can only conclude that I hope that it is not an exception but something that will become a rule for all other institutions in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53420	Thank you very much. We will now move on to an individual debate, so, please stay here, the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53421	Thank you. For an individual debate, I have preserved a part of which I consider to be of particular concern to us as persons present in political life and who are parliamentary representatives or advocates. Therefore, it is about the elections held and the elections as such in general and how much they were able to attend people with disabilities. In that sense, I want to point out the following. As shown by the comparison of the number of social care institutions organised by special polling stations, the number of institutions in which persons with disabilities are primarily located, such as adults' homes and rehabilitation centres where polling stations are reduced by 10 or 30%, resulting in a reduction in the number of people with disabilities who have achieved voting rights. Part of this reduction can be partly attributed to the measures imposed due to the epidemiological situation while part is hanged in the indications of institutions which did not consider laughing to be designated by a special polling post. So here we are in the assembly, we are participants in political life whether or not we have wondered whether persons with disabilities were able to participate in this same political life, and in that first degree in general, to exercise their electoral right, let alone in all the problems that are at this second stage to be representatives of political life, which is still much more often the exception, unfortunately, than the rule. So what this report shows us is that they have not been able to attend these elections enough and that they have been discriminated throughout this whole situation which again raises the question of whether we can do something to at least partially address this problem and when we will finally encourage ourselves and that we are also going towards an electronic vote to, in particular, at a time of crisis, and otherwise for persons with certain disabilities, it is easier to exercise their voting rights. So, I think that's what we need to talk about in this distinguished home as well as the fact that a questionnaire has been sent to all parties represented in parliament to answer whether they have those grounds, the most basic conditions for their premises, etc. have been accessible to persons with disabilities. What I regret to conclude is that many have either not responded or responded so that we have been able to discover that they do not have satisfactory conditions for people with disabilities. This report therefore also offers concrete recommendations for these things to be changed. It's our basic mission and the question that I'm asking us here and leaving open, if we're talking about the rights of disabled persons to sweep under our own threshold first. So, we are participants in political life, then we should at least raise awareness if not to participate in concrete changes so that all persons with disabilities in it can participate first as voters, and she and those who are part of political life. Also, to show that we are going on this trail in all our rooms, we should ensure the conditions and availability of people with disabilities. So this is what I leave before us as the Croatian Parliament for this individual debate and as an open question for all of our future work. So let's sweep first at our own doorstep.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53422	We have two replicas, it's the right of a respected representative of the Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, I think that when you mentioned some positive examples, I think today is a chance to mention one name, and this is Eva Goluža, who studied at the world's most prestigious university in Harvard, which had a Croatian arrival in the Winter Paralympic Games in 2018 in Pyeonghang and here are the bright examples, so that year was recorded about 200 students outside America, Eva was one of two people from the Republic. I think that such examples that Croatia can be proud of should be pointed out and it is worth such examples, such bright examples being mentioned in this high home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53424	Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53425	I know the case of Eva Goluža since her father is just the town councilman of the Most in the new assembly of the Zagreb City Assembly. It's about an extremely talented girl who's been able to show it, prove her envious intellectual ability and sign up for one of the world's most prestigious universities in Harvard, and she's parallel to one of the ski careers, so her lack of visibility hasn't prevented her from participating actively in all aspects of life. However, what should be pointed out here is that Eva Goluža is one exception because she had the opportunity to witness the extraordinary commitment and awareness of her own parents who struggled to make it possible for her to succeed as well. Its example should become a rule that all persons with any form of disability can prove their qualities in all aspects of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53426	Next replica of the respected representative Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also wanted to point out that today we can testify to a large number of people with disabilities who are being educated in colleges, which was not the case. And I agree with you that, that exceptional cases should become a rule, but as far as voting is concerned, participation in political life for people with disabilities, so there are instructions and everyone could participate, to exercise their electoral right. Where that may not have been possible, a person with disabilities could have asked to come to her home. So there's always a way to exercise electoral rights. Of course they're not all. institutions adjusted [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But here's what we're trying to do. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53428	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53429	Thank you. So, I'm afraid you're going to have to deal with this with the D.A. because what I've listed is directly from her report and shows that there was indeed a trend in reducing the possibility of achieving the right of persons with disabilities in the last parliamentary elections. I think I believe that's true because the figures are listed here because the D.A. did some research. In that sense, I believe that it would be useful for us to take a good look at why this happened and remove institutional obstacles so that something like that in the future would no longer be the case, because surely we can do a lot more, not that we are then mingling in that everyone could and that everything is fine at the moment when the report tells us that there were obviously some problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53430	Thank you very much. Here, now, on behalf of the promoter, he will speak to the esteemed Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53431	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53432	Thank you very much, we have one replica of the respected representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53433	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honored attorney, I'd like to ask you a question. The Regulation laying down the employment quota for disabled persons provides for the obligation of the quota employment of persons with disabilities by an employer who employs at least 20 workers. I would like to know how much the ministries themselves respect this regulation and how many of the total people with disabilities are because I believe that the first ones who need to be an example of the debt are the institutions themselves, and according to your report, many of them who lost their jobs in 2020 with people who have never achieved the right to employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53434	The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53435	Well, here's what I'd like to say is that in fact all of us, we spent a few years ago related to the relevant ministries, then we made recommendations exactly for quota employment and access and I have to say that we still haven't, you all know that many bodies, many institutions still pay different benefits related to the obligation or not meeting the obligation of quota employment, but what's the problem, and that's among other things available on the labour market for persons with disabilities with certain adequate competences and opportunities at all, because we know that in many unfortunately employment offices, there are no certain, certain profiles of those who are wanted so that we still have a problem with the link between education and the market, labour markets. But what we have heard here and more times, but what we have also stated in the report is indeed an increasing number of people who are completing higher education or who have acquired competences and actually on all of us, and in particular to state institutions, it is to ensure adequate access and adaptation that these persons have the possibility to even apply to certain competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53436	Thank you very much. Now we're gonna stop working on this wheel and we're gonna have a vote at 12 o'clock. After the vote, we'll take the club stand, and then we'll proceed with this point afterwards. There he is, thank you very much. It's 11:00.55. Now we're going to go back to our point and discuss it that we've interrupted, and now they're going to speak individually, in an individual debate, the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53438	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam, colleagues and colleagues in their opening presentation, our Ombudsman mentioned one subject among other things, namely this individual debate, I was thinking about talking about the problem of disability and crowns and earthquakes, and also mentioned one topic that I was deeply convinced that it had already been absorbed, and these are architectural barriers. So, you mentioned in the opening statement about how you still have a terrible lot of complaints about people who have problems with architectural barriers which on public surfaces, which in the entrance to some kind of building and what when you use it, so it's one of the obstacles that when you can't get anywhere, is the obstacle for always and I'm, of course, something, so I'm an architect, and I've been dealing with something through my working life really that topic. And the first rule I know we have since 1982, so he's 39 years old. This Regulation also clearly defined the conditions for preventing architectural barriers to design. This is from the fact that the halls in the residential buildings must have a certain width so that the man who is in the wheelchair can pass, that the entrance into public buildings must be complex in such a way that access and conditions are for the design of new buildings, and it is said that those who are present must adapt or reconstruct within a certain time period. It's been 39 years, so it hasn't been 39 days, 39 months, it's been 39 years since that rule. It is regulated as to how the laws are amended, so it is now from 2013 that it has had some changes and additions. Among other things, for a while now, the rulebook says that on 25 rooms in hotels 1 room must be for disabled people and it must be in the project. And it exists and it has to be on technical review because no hotel can get a useful license if technically, if the hotel is not made according to the project. And then what happens on the way? The mentioned and problem of tourism, so just for that reason I'm talking, I expect the other in their individual debates will somehow become more attached to something actual, I deliberately commit to it, we're talking about that at the time of crown tourism being one of the reasons where we see the possibility of prosperity. I am absolutely sure, therefore, that one way to really in tourism is to say that we have hotels that, which can be accepted by persons with disabilities, is that it is a kind of tourism that you can develop where you can show the comparative advantages of Croatia. What's going on on our way, unfortunately? I met it when you came to, when the hotel was open he had really either an apartment or a hotel room or something and it was said that it was made according to standards that he could receive people with disabilities. And then over time, they turn that room into someone else because they say they're staring empty or they don't have enough or what's scariest for me, so it's not very good you know that we're here right now, so it's kind of a riot. What I was saying in my debate on behalf of the club, people with disabilities we're still talking about their human rights, we're talking about having the right to education, to work, so to education, to work, to everything they need to have, like all the other people. I am sure that one way and one of the modes where we can show and show that we want to be a country that has a certain attitude, which really takes care of all its citizens, is that at a time when different types of tourism develop, when you speak and people approach in different ways, imagine a country that says we are a country that has absolutely worked and reconstructed their hotels so that people with disabilities can come to the hotel, that they are acceptable to everyone. We forgot about it a little bit along the way. I'd like it back. Deeply I hope, I deeply believe that behind these earthquakes that took place in Croatia will be a step forward and some restoration will take place. In that restoration, don't forget the rule I mentioned from '82. And basically in his technical stuff he hasn't changed. He's changed in someone else. which suggests that objects must be acceptable for people with disabilities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53439	Thank you, thank you very much, we have several replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53440	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues Taritas touched a part of the problem by looking at it through the prism of tourism, but I actually wanted to relate to you and say that it is unfortunate, that year after year, the report in the report is actually discussing one such basic example of human rights violations primarily of persons with disabilities, which is the possibility of access to all buildings, especially public buildings, without then talking about tourism and everything else. Unfortunately, unfortunately, all public buildings are still not available to people with disabilities, unfortunately people with disabilities cannot exercise their rights, can't come to some institutions, can't have access where they should. I'm, so this is not 10, 11, 12 of the report that I'm discussing, and every time this basic problem seems to me not to move a step forward which, of course, shouldn't be the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53441	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53442	Thank you very much. Our lawyer for people with disabilities, this part that I'm tracking really does make excellent reports, they talk about everything and I'm kind of, you know, you think that after 40 years something that's in the space and that's in use that you're still seeing some shifts. And there I was doing something, I lifted my head when she mentioned architectural barriers in terms of using even public, so public areas, using unacquainted walking paths, using it to get someone with a car to stand in that place, that's culture, because 5% of parking places where big public parking lots have to be intended for people with disabilities, close to the entrance and everything else. I wish it was, that it was a side thing, because then it would have turned out that we were doing something anyway. It's a little bit of a power that after 40 of what you've got and something you still have to change. The lawyer has to warn you about that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53443	The next replica will be the respected representative of Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representatives Dark Taritash, therefore, the topic of architectural barriers on which you are far more competent than I am is the topic when talking about the rights of persons with disabilities is always on the agenda. The fact is that there are certain shifts to the better despite a situation that is definitely not satisfactory especially if we look at it from the perspective of people with disabilities, but unfortunately we also talked about, when there was a talk about the Law on the Recovery of Damaged Buildings, so the question of sports infrastructure, the question of cultural infrastructure, you mentioned institutions, whether owned by the city and the state, churches, therefore, which are inaccessible to persons with disabilities, there is a specialized travel agency for people with disabilities at the level of the City of Zagreb who also pointed to what you were saying, so I think together we can change that perception And make it better [[Intruder: Thank you.]] quality. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53445	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53446	Thank you very much. So I deliberately decided in an individual debate just to talk about these architectural barriers because, somehow, we think that things are in their own right, they never get rid of themselves. What you can control, you can control when new houses are built, but what you have to keep in mind when it comes to the reconstruction of existing houses, that's what this is about. And so, people have always had problems, I like old houses very much, especially, look at the Parliament, when you take the stairs, when you climb, those stairs are about 14 to 15 centimeters high, you know why? That a man with a stick can slowly climb down those stairs. So it's always been taken care of, you or I are going to have some sort of.../incomprehensible/... so I'm not talking, I'm saying some sort of momentary problem that you might have. So we have to, what we can do, do. Where the protected objects are you can't make every time, but you can get to level 0 and level 0 lift then by elevator We must take care of it further. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53447	The next replica of the respected representative Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53448	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash. You took the topic of architectural barriers in order to actually show through it as plastic as we still have after all these many years, we haven't allowed the integration of people with disabilities into society, how much we didn't give them what they needed in order to make everything available to them fundamentally, meaning what we're talking about, about basic human needs. You can see that, when there's no access to a wheelchair, you can see it when it can't come down from a footstep or something like that, but unfortunately you still can't see when women can't do basic medical tests, from a gynological or some other because they don't have available infirmarys for people with disabilities and that background picture, that's what we have to do intensively and what the attorney's actually been showing all this time, we need to raise awareness of our society so we don't do enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53449	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53450	Thank you very much. So every time we discuss the attorney general's report for persons with disabilities, I stress human rights. So that's the basic thing that we all have to go from. So, about education, about basic health care, about employment, that's human rights, and that's where women find themselves even worse when women with disabilities are in an even worse position, exactly what you're saying, what you're talking about. And it should not be anyone's mercy, no one's goodwill, it must be simple, of course it is. So we, that's our task, our task is to talk about it, our mission is to point out, our task is to say, my people, we haven't done enough, we have to do enough because I repeat it again and every time I repeat it, We're talking about human rights. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53451	Thank you very much. The next debate will be... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You'd like that? ... Of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here he is, on behalf of the motion attorney for disabled persons, Anka Slonjšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53452	Well, thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Mrak-Taritash, who has chosen this topic for discussion, I think it is very important and to say that, in fact, the basic preconditions for involving persons with disabilities in the life of the community is, among other things, the question of mobility and accessibility, and as long as we do not realize this fact that, as long as we cannot enter the bakery, as long as you cannot learn to the doctor, as long as you cannot enter in any way, and that you have obstacles, regardless of whether they are an architectural type, whether they are an orientation or a type of communication, as long as neither a person with physical impairment nor a psychic, nor a sensory one can actually get the full information, which has been particularly demonstrated at the time of the earthquake and pandemic, because if you do not have information timely and those you can understand, then you can't adequately or access to a solution, i.e.e. basic to your satisfaction needs that are generally relevant to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53453	We have three replicas, a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53454	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, so it encouraged me, and I had an absolutely different discussion in my head, but you encouraged it because you cited it, and you encouraged me even more when you mentioned tourism. And I really have to say, I was in a hotel that was open and it had a space,.../incomprehensible/... suite and room for people with disabilities, and I was just like that on all mouths and everything else and then so that the management of that hotel would tell me, whatever says all right, but we'll, you know, turn it into another room real quick. I'm saying why, the answer I won't mention here, it was scary for me, I had, say, a minister and I said, you know what, if you do, the same time you'll get a construction inspection out and we'll cut you off your useful license, but I mean, it's not a topic, it's a topic. that is, that should be an advantage. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53455	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53456	Well, I'd just like to say that we have a lot of individual discussions, and the heat's out there, so it's not easy for me, either, but to be here with you all together. I would just like to say that affordable tourism is very important and I say and I repeat, as long as people with disabilities and family members who are disabled and children with developmental disabilities don't have the same access to everything, and I especially say, at the time, here, the summer is here, everyone would like to go somewhere, and when you ask for accommodation, you don't have all the possibility of having financial access to a hotel with 4 and 5 stars that are as accessible as they are, they're not available either, if they are mostly 1 or 2 rooms, when you don't have access then how you're going to go because you just don't have a place to go if you don't have any relatives, friends or someone specific you don't know that there't have such apartment either at sea or in some continental part of tourism. So I say we joined some cross-border projects as an office. One approved project is just being held in Osijek-Baranja County and I want them there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] tourism communities are very, very important. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53457	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MP Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53458	The esteemed attorneys, on several occasions in the assembly, raised the issue of the necessity of adopting the Law on Social Welfare and the Law on Personal Assistence. In the past year, the witnesses themselves witnessed how much the situation has actually led us to point out the need for their adoption. In the report, you stated that you had no information in which direction the new Social Care Act would go, so I'm wondering if you really think that a lawyer with a person, a lawyer for people with disabilities should not be involved in its creation as a professional person.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53459	Your Honor's Attorney General, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53460	I thank you for asking. We, as attorney general, have personally decided, I did so two days ago on the Committee on Health, at the beginning of my term of office when I was elected, after 2 years we concluded that very often the attorney general in the working groups is used for the alibi when something is being passed by the Government and when we disagree, then our proposals on being understood as such that we did not agree with all of the provisions under the working group's provisions on a specific regulation and very often when such regulation is passed, or says all the members of the working group agreed on it as the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities. No, I didn't agree, but then you don't have a chance to say that position anymore if you didn't agree. For this reason we always suggest that what is the interest of the UN committee that speaks of the participation of persons with disabilities that they themselves have the opportunity to participate, we always suggest that one of the members of the persons with disabilities of the representatives be involved in the working groups And we're out of our minds, but we don't think this debate today is [[Intruder: Thank you.]] for the law... [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53461	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53462	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorney, with regard to barriers, many people with disabilities are not motivated to participate in the community because they feel disfellowshipped, they are not allowed access due to both architectural barriers and any other barriers they face on a daily basis. We also face the fact that in associations a small number of people with disabilities are always active, while a number of members are not motivated and actively active. How you think or how you think people with disabilities can be activated for activities within the associations themselves, but also in general for community activation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53463	Your Honor's Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53464	I don't know, I have a feeling that it's actually a general one, as you might say, the view of our society. Because I was a member of the Association and I was active in organising workshops, projects and very often when something is organised for free, then very difficult citizens are generally reported, but when they pay for something or when they co-finance something more like they are involved in these different active workshops and projects. I think that, membership in associations voluntarily and everyone can join or not join, but I think it might be necessary to consider what is in the context of the current and actually motivate young people, young people with disabilities to get involved and actually withdraw from these intense debates on social networks, and to become more involved in active thinking about how with associations they can change and give as much activity and activation of these situations as possible at national level, and to actually change our society's consciousness in general about the needs of people with disabilities. I think in that sequence you should go with the motivation bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53465	The next debate will be respected MPs Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53466	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed attorneys with their co-workers, state secretaries, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs would begin by thanking the lawyer for a clear and concrete report, pointing out cases she met on the ground, recommendations she made to the competent ministries. I don't know which way we're facing again the consequences of pandemics and earthquakes. In addition to a number of shortcomings in the system that we have been facing for years, which has been pointed out by the Ombudsman herself in her reports, pandemics and earthquakes added to make life difficult for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, which is evident from the complaints received by 2266, as well as the recommendations and warnings addressed to them as many as 424. Many were forced to forget about normal living conditions and standards overnight, especially those with disabilities. Unfortunately, they suffered the most in this situation from isolation, discontinuation of rehabilitation, social and educational programmes to indicators that experts and staff in institutions are missing, then poor availability of different transport services, etc. In 2020, people with disabilities were also marked by a smaller number of persons employed, only 358 of them. I've also ordered a non-compliance with the rules on employment quotas. That people with disabilities were in a more unfavourable position and the number of complaints about the problems they faced because of poverty, poverty and the inability to meet the basic needs. Once again, the need for urgent adoption of the new Law on Social Welfare and the Law on Personal Assistants, which have been announced by rulings for years. What I would like to pay special attention to in this debate concerns the inequality and discrimination of children with developmental difficulties in enrolment. During the past period, the Advocate General has acted in a total of 238 complaints on discrimination on the basis of disability, of which 135 concerned the determination of infringements of the right and/or suspicion of discrimination under the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss The Ombudsman also received instructions from parents of children with developmental difficulties who could not have access to preschool education solely because of the child’s developmental difficulties. Namely, not a small number of children with developmental difficulties are not available kindergarten because they need an assistant, and kindergartens or founders cannot provide them. That's what's most painful. Children are being discriminated against from their earliest age. In several of my debates for this speaker, I pointed out the non-compliance with the state pedagogical standard that children's kindergartens were not invested enough, existing kindergartens were not strengthened, it was not necessary to increase their accommodation capacity, strategies were not planned to develop early and pre-school education, education policies were not developed, training for the work and employment of professional staff. As a result, we are all brought together into an unsustainable situation in many areas throughout Croatia, and we hardly assess the situation in large cities where the number of unlisted children, especially children with developmental difficulties in preschool institutions, is significantly high. Under the Law on Units of Local Self-Government and local self-government are responsible and mandatory to ensure that citizens meet the needs of pre-school institutions. They are obliged to provide equally accessible and equally safe and equally quality kindergarten for each child, for every child without discrimination. So far, many units of local self-government have shown a lack of systematic work to meet the needs of citizens, care for children's rights and freedoms, and a rare and complete involvement towards endangering children's physical and mental health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53467	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Posavec Krivec. Forgive her, I'm sorry, she's the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53468	Thank you, Vice President. Although I don't mind a colleague of the guilty being before me. You have also taken only one aspect of the wide discrimination experienced by disabled people, which is the right to access preschool education. Namely, many children who do not have access to disability, then especially a sensitive group that needs more investment, which should be better prepared for primary education, and then we still do not invest enough. I think that's where you touched the point where we don't think strategically, not to think long-term, to approach everything in the same orderly way, and the result is that a lot of our children are out of preschool, especially children who would require greater care and greater socialization and greater care, so that in a few years, they can successfully integrate into the education system, and that's what they've just been denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53469	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53470	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. That's exactly what it means when a child is enrolled in kindergarten, there are criteria, so from them is parent status, but imagine now that children with developmental difficulties are not below the line, they are others below the line on this and that's what's devastating and what needs to be dealt with urgently because all children have the right to kindergarten regardless of status and without discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53471	A representative of the Posavec Guilty will now be honored. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53472	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Nikolic. The topic you have opened today through your discussion is a very painful topic for many parents in the Republic of Croatia for all who have passed the attempt to enroll their children in regular preschool education. Some of their struggles last for months, some years, and some never give good results. We see that Croatia has built a number of new kindergartens thanks to EU funds, has built even kindergartens that are affordable for children with special needs or children with developmental difficulties, but we do not see Croatia using funds to develop society to be willing to integrate the same members as the whole into its society. So we're not developing consciousness that we're all equally valuable and that we have to have equal starting positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53473	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53474	I thank my colleagues Posavec the guilty. Everything you said I agree with you because kindergartens are not only childcare services but are also places where the growth and development of psychophysical development encourages child education and I believe that every child should be in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53475	The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53476	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney with Associates, Your Honor, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. I will speak in three themes in these five minutes, and the first topic of course is the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb and the most Sisak-Moslavina County where people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities put them in a particularly unfavourable position and the report states with the right that people with disabilities in the restoration of damaged housing should have the advantage. Just imagine a person with severe mental disorders or a child with some of the disorders from the autistic spectrum located in a new unknown environment, which for this person represents a particular stress and increases the likelihood of his mental state getting worse. The architectural barriers have already been discussed, so I'm going to skip it. What I would also mention, and from year to year, this is rightly stated in the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities, is the fact that the quality of life and services offered by the state to people with autistic spectrum disorders is little to say that this is bad. I expect from the newly founded Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for persons with disabilities who had their first session three months ago not only to participate in the adoption of some national plans, action plans but to really help because the parents of children with autistic spectrum disorders are indeed heroes and the state does not seem to be doing too much for that group of people where social services, health services from early diagnostics should continue to be much, much better. The third part is related to, of course, people with mental disorders, there are different groups of children who were at an increased risk of abuse and neglect, domestic violence, gender-related violence, problems with the addictive population, but in particular I would like to point out the elderly who were the most discriminated at this time, where we had the situation that their stay in health institutions, especially here I mean, of course, psychiatric hospitals was prolonged for paramedical reasons, and we know that every day longer stays in psychiatric or any other hospital increases the likelihood of hospital infections and thus increases mortality. The Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disorders, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, answered a number of questions, Prof. Velinka Grozdanić from Rijeka worked very well with her team, but we have some problems, let's say what about the question of people who are innumerable, who are underage, who have committed the characteristics of the crime and who have no place to be located? So this reopens the problem of child adolescent psychiatry, which is largely preventive. If we have an effective child adolescent psychiatry, we reduce the incidence of adult psychiatric disorders, but these are concrete examples that should be answered in the innovation of this law. And I hope that the monitoring committee at the Ministry of Justice and Administration will be more specific. In order to protect persons with mental disorders, in particular those for whom it has been established during the judicial procedure that the characteristics of criminal offences have been committed in an innumerable state, further efforts should be made to speed up the procedure in order to begin their treatment in forensic departments as quickly as possible. This should be done because these persons are not included in the length of the measures, but their measures start from the day of their stay in a psychiatric institution. Here I would ask there is a State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice and Administration, so it is definitely necessary to improve the conditions of treatment at the Hospital for persons deprived of liberty because they are not adequate for the longer stay of persons with severe mental disorders. In view of the fact that this is a particularly vulnerable group, I consider it necessary to educate the judges and the state's attorney's office and to support what the Advocate General has recommended for persons with disabilities in relation to the education of the Judiciary Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53477	We've got more replicas, and here's the Honorable representative of the Circle who raised her before you even started talking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53478	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Cellic. As I come from the Municipality of Dubrava, a community where many families and persons deal with foster care and homes for older and powerless, I am interested in how in these challenging times it is that people who deal with homes for elderly and powerless and foster families have cooperated with psychiatric services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53479	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Representative of the District. As the head of Dubrava Vrbovečka Municipality where there is a tradition of foster families, and in recent times and family homes, I believe that you are directed to deinstitutionalise a transitional solution is a foster family. It is always best for people with severe mental disorders to remain inside their families, but unfortunately it is not always possible. We are at this time of the covid epidemic given that we care in extra-patient form for a significant number of persons in foster families actually happened a kind of shift. Patients used to come to us in hospitals, and now we have contacted our patients, or foster families. A system of telepsychological care has been developed which is one new opportunity, is always better physical contact, but it is also one possibility of quality medical service for people with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53481	The next is the replica of the respected representative Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. Here you all have noted in your debate the State Secretary what the Ministry of Justice should do for persons with mental disorders who have been deprived of freedom, I just want to tell you that the minister has recently reached an agreement with the community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities that they have put those persons in their proposals to the Ministry, so priority and all that is needed from further accessibility what the Ministry of Justice must do. So here's a large spectrum of obligations the Ministry of Justice has taken over and I believe that we will soon be able to witness the results of solving many problems in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53483	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Lukacic, the integration of health care within the Justice and Administration Ministry has seen significant improvements over the past few years, however, there are certain problems to be discussed. So, how to implement, when you implement certain laws and when you face specific problems, one of the specific problems is minors who are declared innumerable who can't commit a crime because they're innumerable, but the characteristics of a criminal offence, and if you know what it is, what a psychiatric hospital looks like for children and youth that is absolutely inadequate for all young people who have mental health problems, then it's one problem that needs to be talked about. The D.A. made some recommendations, and I hope those recommendations will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53485	The next replica is the respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53486	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed colleague at the beginning, you said something about the concern of course related to the earthquake itself. I would like to remind you that in the proposal of the Law on Reconstruction, HDZ has forgotten persons with disabilities. In fact, in those 20% of those who should be on their own in relation to the state and the city were only disabled in the Homeland War, so they were not persons with disabilities, but this is thanks to the proposal. The amendment to the left block has entered, so let it enter the record to say if you've already said it's a matter of concern. My second question, namely the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and thank you for the trace of this and I know your concern about mental health, is here to recommend to the Croatian Government that access to mental and psychosocial health services for persons with disabilities be made available, but including health services in the field of sexual and reproductive health. What's the biggest problem I'd say in our community is to look at people with disabilities and their joining parenting Do you know anything about it or we'll ask... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53487	Thank you. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Boris, I don't care about HDZ or any other party when we talk about people with disabilities, you know where I work and what my primary focus is, but I agree with you. So with amendments and additions to the laws that took effect in February, all persons with disabilities are even and thank you for your contribution as well as for the contribution of MP Ljubica Lukačić. The problem of sexual and reproductive health has been put under a drawer for many years, certain shifts have been made, unfortunately older ones remember what injustices are and what discriminations people with various mental disorders have experienced where they have been violently sterilized, where they have been violently given certain contraceptives, I think that there should be a lot of work on education because all persons must be equal in terms of parenting and sexual and reproductive health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53489	Dear Representative Hajdukovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have touched a problem that is not only related to people with disabilities but unfortunately prevails in our healthcare system, which is to extend their stay in hospitals or institutions that actively care about the patient for paramedical reasons, so this is the case and as you have said to some people with disabilities, but also to say about persons who have chronic illnesses or are powerless or older, simply do not have adequate accommodation, we do not have enough capacity for palitative care, we do not have the capacity to care that these people should. And that's why we're burdening the hospital system, so these people stay longer because there's just no one to take them to, deliver them to say it might be a rough word, but they can't send them home because they definitely can't take care of themselves or their family can't take care of them. And that is why, in the future, we should also think about expanding such capacities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53491	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Hajdukovic absolutely agrees with you. So, a large area of municipal psychiatry or the development of psychiatry in the community we had a twinning project with the Trimbos Institute from the Netherlands where we saw examples of good clinical practice. Unfortunately, everything else remains at the pilot level of the projects. HZZO still does not finance such a service, with us there is still an unimaginable yet another paternal approach and in the case of a significant number of psychiatrists in the Netherlands a psychiatrist goes to a bicycle to visit a person who has severe mental disorders, to prevent, prevent rehospitalisation because hospitalization is the most expensive and who any new hospitalization for a person who has certain mental difficulties as well as for any other person is stressful. So we should absolutely work here and we should all work together to change some things and get a move on for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53493	The Republic has a respected representative, Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I'm extremely glad that you pulled the subject of people with psychosocial disabilities, so mental patients, because it's a theme like we all know here who's really pushed under the carpet and these people live on the edges of society. That's what I was talking about on behalf of the club, and that's why I would like to call you again as a representative and member of the ruling majority to somehow join forces to finally adopt a new strategy, a national strategy for the protection of mental health that we haven't had since 2016, and we are witnessing that neither those objectives set in the previous strategy have been achieved. Here, I call on you to fight together for a new strategy that is supposed to be over, which is supposed to be now, for months now, and that national strategy will depend on both local strategies and local new programmes. So here we go. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53495	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representatives Raukar Gamulin at the beginning of the congratulations for your entry into the Croatian Parliament. Yes, it is a subject which is painful for me, I think that we have been waiting too long for the national strategic framework for the protection of mental health and all the explanations that I have received at the Ministry of Health for me to get certain opinions from other ministries to pass a certain time, but this is too long here, too, we have, and the National Strategic Framework for the control of all forms of addiction, which is also, unfortunately, waiting and every time is a question, here, only it isn't, for us who are working with mental health problems is that too long, the expert commissions have given their positive green light, but I really expect, here, Secretary of State Plazonic is there, the minister here on several occasions here with a payphone said that By realising, here, I hope we do it by autumn [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to see the light of day. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53497	Now again, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak for her esteemed lawyer, Anka Slonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53498	Well, I'm just, given my medical condition, I have to retire, so I've been looking for these five minutes and giving my comments briefly. I would like to say that what we are certainly interested in, that the different forms of services in the community are developed as much as possible in order to support persons with disabilities to stay in their own homes for as long as possible, of course, with the support they need, so that this life would really be decent and quality and ultimately, to dissipate families that are really suffering great, we can say, great burdens and many of them are turned into themselves, many of them are turned towards the fact that they are no longer dealing with those parents and those of their real needs, they have already taken over the roles of both parents and carers and 24 hours of care, regardless of whether they are a child or an adult person with disabilities. Many fees are not yet targeted as they should with the basis of disability, and the amounts they amount to, I repeat, are minimal and very often do not satisfy even the basic needs that are really great when we talk about the issue, i.e. large in terms of the financial burden of the family. Many live on these disabled people, many families live on the compensation of their members, and they do not direct them for the needs of their members, precisely because they live in very difficult living conditions. I'd also like to say yes, Dr. President. The cellic, or parliamentary representative, mentioned the issue of foster care. We are constantly stressing that it is important to provide adequate forms of alternative form of care because as long as there is no such thing, we have no place to direct people with disabilities when they happen to be older, that there is no one to worry about when they stay very often alone in their environments and when there is no support and service that they really live the way they should, enjoy a full life as much as possible. For this reason, many of them are unfortunately listed as entering institutions, institutions, which, unfortunately, as we see, as well as those overburdened and indeed those who really need help cannot get it, and what we really want is this transformation of homes, deinstitutionalisation and wherever it is possible to open services of organized housing. And I really call on all those units of local and regional self-government which, which those mayors and mayors and all others, are to design shapes, housing in this sense to ensure as many accessible apartments as possible for persons with disabilities as possible, because only in the City of Zagreb we know that many people are waiting for affordable apartments to live and enter their own apartment, in this building, we know that there are many, many, many, among other things, the large engagement of the Association of Retirers about EU funds, the renovation wave, etc., where big funds are expected to involve persons with disabilities living in their premises and in their residential buildings, where they should be ensured that they can come and enter their apartments with dignity and that they can live as they deserve. It would also point out that the issue of foster care has turned into that, unfortunately, we have a situation that has become small institutions, that these institutions, or foster homes, are extremely small controls and supervisions. Unfortunately, the pandemic has confirmed this even more over the past year because this number that we now have an inspector in the ministry cannot really cover that it does not say anything over and what they control is not controlled by human rights but controls those conditions that are spatial and technical, and what we do in this segment, as regards persons with disabilities, is not adequate, and complaints just confirm that unfortunately it is existing and that there are growing problems in foster families. I'd like not to mention this on the next report and not to mention that there are again complaints in 2021, but, look, we're halfway through the year and we see that there's still a lot of room we need to fill out in a way that's positive for people with disabilities. And finally, I would like to say that people with disabilities and parents of children with disabilities and adults with disabilities are best able to articulate their needs, so also what they really need and that as much as possible include all those regulations, decisions, which at local level, which at regional or state level, and that we all contribute to the life of people with disabilities being better, not today, but tomorrow, but as they say, yesterday. Here. Thank you and, behold, I am sorry, but there will remain my deputies, surely they will be able to answer questions as well as I, if not better. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53499	There is also a replica on your presentation of the respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53500	This is more of a thank you and thank you for your patience, but I believe we're all here to improve the position of people with disabilities right now. Here's what you said yourself until, if we needed different alternative forms of care and I'd say we need alternative forms of solidarity, one parent called me an hour ago, so I suggest, he asked, and we're agents here to pass it on, so we know that disabled people in the Homeland War after 7 years can sell or return their vehicle or as they say. This parent asks, if such vehicles are not sold very often, and they are new, and so, without condemning anyone, he pleads whether solidarity can be given to parents who have children with disabilities and who take care of them daily and have to care for them, and they are extremely poor and have no way of getting the vehicles themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53501	Thank you. The esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53502	So here I thank the question and the proposal, I certainly invite this parent to speak freely to us and to send us such a request I will gladly refer it to the Ministry of Defence, but at the same time I must say that such an appeal was by the Croatian Associations of Paraplegics and Tetraplegics a few years ago which we referred to both the Association and the Ministry of Defence, unfortunately the answer was not positive. So I hope that this appeal by that parent and by me as a lawyer who I said at first, is in my interest to protect the rights of all persons with disabilities, so does the defender and all those regardless of the cause, whether it was someone who fell off a pear as they say or was shaken by a boar from a tree, we have different situations of life, sometimes the sarcastically ridiculous and tragic and in that sense I say I should do anything if anything else to co-finance transportation is the least that can be done, if not already given A vehicle. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you, and I'm afraid I have to retire.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53503	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53504	Can I say one more sentence? Just one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53505	Ah, go ahead and say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53506	It's just a termological sentence. We are constantly using words here, I have become the esteemed mandate of all MPs using terms that are adequate and do not use in public space inappropriate terms. People with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and children with particularly flexible needs if they are related to education. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53507	Thank you very much. I'm sorry it took so long, but here's thank you for being with us. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53508	... And before I begin, I would really ask you to ask the Bureau to hold a meeting in the future when we have an attorney for the disabled to consider her as a person with disabilities and to adjust the debate with the breaks and everything we need to make sure that Mrs. Attorney General stays with us all the time. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53509	Of course I have to answer you right away, it's very difficult to do because it's very difficult for me as chairman to limit the right of parliamentary deputies to speak, the number of them, etc., it's on the conscience and parliamentary representatives to take care of someone's health, etc., so it's very difficult, that is, every situation has this and that side often complained about why a point is put in before noon, and the other one puts in the afternoon, and then again it wasn't good when it's put in the afternoon. So, in a variety of situations it's hard to put it on and it's hard to please everyone I have to say, but here you go. Here you go. You can talk, yeah. [[Intruder: May I answer?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53510	Well, I think we can adapt to the debate because somehow we're forced to be as brief as possible because we're uncomfortable looking at the D.A.'s office, so here again, I'm pleading to take that into consideration. So, in this individual debate, I would like to highlight some more critical points in this report, in particular, to point out that attention should be paid to the part relating to the accessibility of the housing which, of course, has already been mentioned here today because this area has often been the subject of complaints by persons with disabilities addressed to both the Ombudsman and all other institutions. Inaccessibility mainly concerned the lack of elevators in several flat buildings of the older construction date and unfortunately the lack of understanding of the neighbours or representatives of the co-owners for the purpose of ensuring the accessibility of individual common parts of the property. Although, of course, the biggest problem is the lack of funds in the common fund in the so-called fund. The reserves were also highlighted when there were enough resources but there was not enough understanding by co-owners to solve the problem. It is evident that there is a need to work to raise the empathy of a society with vulnerable groups, which of course include persons with disabilities. Furthermore, given that such requirements require significant material investments, and persons with disabilities and their families generally do not have sufficient resources due to the high costs that cause and bring disability. And it should be noted that the risk rate of poverty and social exclusion of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia is extremely high, it is almost 40%. Therefore, I hope that the opinion and recommendations of the Ombudsman for the adoption of the Social Housing Act as well as the establishment of a trust fund or a fund from which housing adjustments to private-owned apartments could be financed for those persons with disabilities who do not have the necessary resources. I therefore hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will accept and start a concrete legislative and other initiative to implement these recommendations. Since our economic and economic stability is most linked to tourism, we should again, as the esteemed representative Mrak Taritas has already mentioned, carefully consider the Ombudsman's proposals and recommendations to ensure the accessibility of tourist destinations and facilities for people with disabilities. Most of all, I think of private tenants and it is a really reasonable and good proposal to organise a system of education with the competent authorities, in which the main educators would be persons with disabilities, as the D.A. pointed out, because they really know best what obstacles there are for them and what adjustments are necessary as well as solutions to these problems. So, I think the adjustment of tourism facilities for disabled people is not only a social empathy moment but also an economic opportunity to raise the tourist offer to a higher level. Finally, I must say that it is indeed saddened by the fact that the Advocate General for Equality warns people with disabilities for years and makes recommendations and suggestions for a solution to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is so often deaf and does not take the necessary steps. What kind of society are we that marginalizes the most needed, especially children? We get lost in statistics, numbers, and we forget that these are our neighbors, our fellow citizens, our family members, our acquaintances, our friends. It's not numbers, it's people, it's Maya, it's Drazen, Hrvoje, Eve, Maria, Luka, it's concrete people for their rights, it's concrete people, concrete children, we have to be solid with them, we have to fight for their rights in order for us to remain human. Here, thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53511	Thank you very much. We have one replica, you stay here, you might need an answer, you don't have to answer, but maybe you would. Dear representative Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53512	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. So here I support your debate and the fact is it's always good to encourage to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, but you can't say that the government is deaf to the counsel's recommendations. I know that you know that the laws that are key to persons with disabilities, which is the Law on Personal Assistantry, the Law on Inclusive Supplement, and here soon the Social Care Act can be said almost, the Social Care Act will go first, these are the laws that people with disabilities expect, and on the proposal of the attorneys have indeed set out to say in the making, but the way it should be, and not the way it was a few years ago. So don't say that deafening things isn't easy. bring as fast as we expect. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53513	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53514	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable MPs. We witnessed today that the D.A. said that some things, the very laws you've been talking about, have been waiting for them for 13 years. Of course I agree with you that they should be well prepared, but I believe 13 years is one too long period. And that's why I still think that too often the government of the Republic of Croatia deafens itself to counsel's recommendations for people with disabilities because it testifies if you're looking at a series of reports of hers in '20, '19, '18, '17. etc. to go backwards where some recommendations appear year after year, and nothing on this matter happens. Let us hope that now these laws will finally come to the Assembly and that there will be these necessary changes for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53515	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53516	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few of us left this Friday afternoon, and we've heard more than once about this pay phone how often we repeat ourselves when we're talking about the D.A.'s report for people with disabilities, so here's how I'm going to repeat some sentences that I repeated almost a year ago here. So this report seems to repeat itself year after year, same sentences, not even what the shaflane says, but actually, for people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, nothing has changed in years. So the way this country treats all of them is still equal, cruel, humiliating, and completely exposed with the arrival of the Crown. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The attorneys addressed 2,172 citizens and citizens last year 2,266, from year to year the number is growing itself shows an extremely bad situation for people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. The report reads the same recommendations, the same results, and all because of the disastrously bad legal framework. So here last year I said this, it can be changed to this year, "In most cases it is not about direct discrimination, but rather about bad laws and rules as the main culprits. The most obvious example is the Social Care Act, which contains discriminatory provisions in the achievement of certain social rights, which primarily refers to provisions governing the status of the care provider for adults with disabilities." The pandemic of the Coronal Virus brutally threw out all the shortcomings of this law, but also to others, and I will quote from the report "Concerned to the epidemic from the very beginning in the spring the largest number concerned labour rights, the ability to work from home, the need to work from home because of a child with disabilities in case of self-insulation and others. Also, significant challenges were met by parents who, after school closure or for the purpose of stopping the implementation programme at social care institutions, were meant to provide care for their grandfather so that their enquiries were related to the opportunities available to them in cases where work from home was not possible."The pandemic surprised us, none of us were prepared, but it is absolutely unacceptable to use it as an excuse for lack of programming, didactic and professional support for disabled students. The saddest of all that these solutions to these problems are not actually inaccessible, the Ombudsman reports every year, as I said most of all, the slightly modified version of the one from the previous year as if we were talking about some kind of nuclear physics, so it's not nuclear physics. It's enough, I think, to start listening to people. Here's an example of how to solve a specific problem, using a smart card that frees people with disabilities from paying tolls, that card is connected to a vehicle, not a person. Here, can we tie it to a person by making their mobility easier? One small and simple solution problem. What I wanted to say in particular and pointed out, these are children's problems with autism and their families, so the lawyer's report lists some specific problems of children with autism, and they are not particularly highlighted but are referred to as children with developmental difficulties. You could, here, read the report 2, 3 examples that are actually scary here, I'll read one family from Chucher with five underage children, quote, so my son with autism has uncontrollable, aggressive, often unpredictable turns out whenever he finds himself in a tight space among unknown people. So, the problem is with the earthquake in Zagreb, they were offered some accommodation, but here I'm saying, a child with autism has a problem with tight spaces, they refused that accommodation, new accommodation is not offered to them. So, examples from office practice, parents from Slavonia indicate that their daughter has a problem with the spectrum of autism, has been treated three times in a psychiatric hospital for children and youth and are again describing uncontrolled aggressive outbursts. So the problem of children with autism and their families appears throughout Croatia, parents are left to themselves and have no support in the community, education, health and welfare systems. So, here, that's for the end of something I wanted to especially highlight for this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53517	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Raukat-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, for mentioning the poor legal framework that we all know here. I'd add that it's too little funding for all the needs of people with disabilities, so here, let me give you a picture. I'd say half the wings of a combat plane would solve many, many of the problems of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, so here, I'd choose children between planes and children. What do you say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53519	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53520	So I'd say it's undeniable that we need both protection and defense, we need, maybe even planes, but there are, I'm sure there are, in this country, leaks everywhere. There are plenty of opportunities where we can also make rationalization, reasonable and smart use of the funds available to us from taxpayers and I'm sure we'd find enough resources to here, help all persons or with disabilities, whether they're wartime military people or civilian people with disabilities. I was saying something about it in the replica, the difference between rights, the right to some service between military disableds and civilian disableds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53521	The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53522	Dear Chairman, colleague Puljak, I wonder if you know how we might be able to improve the education of women with disabilities. In fact, 60% of women with disabilities have only primary school. Unless, therefore, of Stigmatizing, I'd say this is also stereotyping women, especially whether, if still, a female child is also disabled. In addition, I would like here, but if this is about what we finance, I think that Croatia must be concerned that a large number of activities are being carried out, not by the state, not by its institutions, but by associations which, or associations associations, such as SOIH, are dealing with associations, to say the parents who have children with disabilities, we would say they are interested, and the state should be interested in taking care of all their citizens because that concern is not predominant as a parent. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53523	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53524	Now, when you mention education, what, I agree, here, with everything you've said, I'll mention here that the preschool and school system doesn't know the inclusion, but we have an outdated integration of children, now I'm going back to kids with autism, but it can actually be applied to all people with disabilities, children with disabilities, so the integration of these children with classmates who usually don't end up being educated, not being educated enough, and then teachers, teachers have a problem because the assistants aren't educated how to work in classes where children with autism are usually. The long-term direction of Europe is, in fact, that all and those institutions, whether the centres for autism and all similar things are actually replaced by a system in which there will be a complete inclusion of persons with disabilities in which these institutions will be abolished and we will actually live or achieve one co-existence with people with disabilities, not shut them down in some kind of institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53525	Thank you. The next one will be discussed by the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53526	In front of us is the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities, from which you can get a detailed insight into the work of the office, but you can also look at the current problems and difficulties of people with disabilities and focus the work of systems in certain areas. Since the final debate in the Assembly was held in October 2020 on the 2019 Report, we still have a memory of the problem that was presented by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities at the time. Today, unfortunately, the problem remains unchanged, and we remember in particular the weight with which the Ombudsman had the consequences for people with disabilities to deal with during the coronary virus pandemic. In the intensities that with the most protection, as we have heard here many times today, those most vulnerable, persons with disabilities lost the most in greater isolation, in the inaccessibility of social and health institutions. The lawyer's engagement tells us that she referred 23 proposals to 16 e-Consultations of amendments and addition of legal, sublegal acts and gave 74 opinions on laws, plans, strategies but is still not informed, which is devastating, in which direction the new Social Care Act will go. I'm afraid it's not the only one because the professional public can hear criticism from the Ministry of Labour, Pension Insurance, Family and Social Policy that the profession is not properly informed at all in the amendments and in what direction the Social Care Act is going. The Law on Personal Assistence, the Act on Inclusive Adjectives, is an imaginary law that has been passed through announcements for years. The adoption is delayed year after year as well as the Social Care Act. Furthermore, the problem is the project financing of personal assistant services, sign language translator and blind person companion, which does not allow continuity in work or is sufficient in view of real needs. As far as home transformation is concerned, we are also here as we were some time ago, and last year when we discussed the latest report, we are still talking about six homes that have, in a certain way, implemented the transformation, but the number of accommodation users has not decreased, but has also increased. It is necessary to increase home assistance services, personal assistance, psychosocial support in the home as planned and defined by the deinstitutionalisation, transformation and prevention and institutionalisation plan of 2018-20. We have nearly 10,000 people with disabilities at our home and for a reason the Ombudsman wonders how much these users could live with quality support in their home with available services and tailored to the individual needs of each person with disabilities. As an alternative to accommodation is offered foster care or organised housing. As the best form of accommodation or life other than the one in your own home, an apartment is organized with which, with assistants, persons with disabilities have the greatest sense of self-life. And in this report, you say that social care is the most represented in complaints about the already widely known poor standard of living for persons with disabilities and insufficient compensations that we have heard of here many times today that do not meet the costs of people with disabilities and serve most of them to settle the overhead costs of the family, unfortunately, not for the social inclusion that they are intended for. The Social Care Centres as you have recognised cannot be the only care bearers and you are calling for cooperation and strengthening inter-resorship cooperation at local community level. The civil sector is the holder of non-institutional services in the community and the initiator of organised housing thanks to parents of children with developmental difficulties who are aware that someone should care about it even when there are no more. Social care is unfortunately marginalized for many years, especially in the whole and care areas of people with disabilities. This is proof of this and of the work of, for example, the unique body of art of the Institute of Arts in which accumulated difficulties are not really solved and they are not well enough to follow the needs of users and resistors for which the experts of the institution for a particular portfolio. It is known that there are not enough services and that children with developmental difficulties are left to themselves, there are not enough experts, we have all the information about the welfare system, but the ministry has neither the will nor the energy to implement the requirements from the field and face problems and offer a solution. We're all aware of the problem here, we support all the attorney general's report, but I'm here for the second time in debate on the report and I'm ashamed of how little the state's shift has made for people with disabilities, and I can imagine that the attorney's here and all of the people represented by those who year after year point to problems, and the state has no hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53527	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Sabelak Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53528	Thank you, Vice President. Well, you've opened up your colleagues, we've been opening up a series of problems all day today, and I think it's very important that we refer to the last report that was in the 10th month, where it's practically seen that there was no movement in this period. Somehow this debate was over then with the fact that there will be a social welfare law, that we will have at least before the second reading of the law on assistants and an inclusive supplement, but none of it has been done anywhere. It's a large number of people, and it definitely can't be done by just one ministry, especially social care centres, so how much do you think you're doing, since you're coming from the welfare center and he might have it on him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53529	Dear representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53530	Here's a thank you... for encouraging a series of problems here and ideas that could and could be arranged. What we certainly don't see is the Ministry's direction because, as you pointed out, not only does the ministry misinformed the public but we here on committees. We have been promised on the board since April that the Social Care Act will be in the government, now here it is we have from committee to committee we get different information that is really devastating, which means that the ministry has no vision at all in which direction it should go. So social care centres have not yet decided what he is, whether he is a social benefits holder, material rights or whether he will be a social service provider who will be available to all citizens regardless of the difficulties. Is it about people with disabilities, whether it's family, parental difficulties, and everything else. So we still don't have a direction, we still don't know if we're going to transform homes or whether we're going to transform homes in terms outside of institution accommodation or whether we're going to increase accommodation capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53531	Thank you very much. Now she will speak to a respected representative, Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53532	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, Associates. Although this report covers all areas regulated by the UN Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, I will look briefly at one specific area that is otherwise regularly highlighted as a weak spot, not only in the Ombudsman's reports but also in other documents and in the prosecutor's report on gender equality. I will also mention here the issue of the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of April 2020, noting that it is a committee that discusses the reports that we, as signatories of the Convention, are required to submit and act according to recommendations. I have here a list of four pages of recommendations, and today we've heard from colleagues and colleagues that unfortunately for years these recommendations remain only a letter on paper. In 2020, the Committee asked for answers on what was taken on the recommendations made by the Ombudsman for gender equality and what efforts were made to include that part in other policies and programmes and related to gender equality. In our report, the Advocate General for 2020, and then she single-handedly highlights the extremely difficult situation of women with disabilities in the exercise of the right to health, to partner relations, to motherhood, to education, to employment and especially to highlight various forms of violence and discrimination. In people with disabilities, we can always or often talk about multiple discrimination in women and gender-based discrimination, and then additionally if they are persons with disabilities, then if people are different sexual orientations, then we can list a number of forms of discrimination, especially violence against women with disabilities. We should actually be extremely concerned about the assessment that we most often find about the inrecognition of women with disabilities. You look in your community when you see a young woman in a wheelchair do you think she has the right to have a sex life, does she even have the right to have a family? So what women with disabilities are all facing is certainly different from what women with no disability are facing. Obstructions to provide health services due to, and today we talked about all persons with disabilities of non-accessible objects, as well as equipment and facilities of health institutions, were recently talked about how unadjusted gynological offices for these women. So the hardest thing for women is that they speak for themselves, not even that inaccessibility, but the prejudices they face when they decide to have a mother. Access to women with disabilities, reproductive and sexual health for one part of the professional public is not even considered acceptable. Fortunately yesterday, the European Parliament showed that standards for the protection of women and their reproductive health will be preserved and improved, and I hope also for women with disabilities. All recommendations proposed by the Ombudsman in this area should indeed be made by parliamentary representatives, we should insist on their implementation, in fact on ensuring and a different type of support for women with disabilities, increasing the number of counselling for women with disabilities, SOS phone. Only the first SOS phone and somehow I feel like an activist and was proudly founded only in 2007. So how long it took compared to 20 years of other SOS phones related to violence against women, and we know that violence against women with disabilities is certainly double that, if not triple. It is very important to point out that there are networks of women with disabilities and that women realize that they have to support each other in solidarity because they share this experience that we other women do not share. And I'm really saying it's the turn of the state and that it takes serious measures to protect especially women with disabilities from any violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53533	Thank you very much. We have one replica, stay, respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53534	Thank you. Well, we've heard many times today, and you've mentioned now about hiring people with disabilities especially women where they are really unequal to all other citizens. And we have also heard many times that we are waiting to adopt any strategies that we have and now existing strategies that are not applied from different areas, and we have now laws that implement or prescribe advantages in employment that are not implemented. For example, this is also an example of an active employment policy model and measures of the Employment Service, where the measures say that the advantage of employment is given to persons with disabilities, victims of family violence, but in practice, women are not employed, in practice it is difficult to reach a job and on these projects. Because here's how it's just unrecognizable and women are not encouraged enough to fight in an adequate way. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53535	Thank you. Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53536	So for years, I'd say equality is first seen on the labour market, and then everything else goes into it. Women with disabilities when we talk about women with disabilities and the labour market are discriminated against in several ways. I'd like to ask you a classic question when was the last time you saw a woman with disabilities working in a bank, that she was your advisor, when you saw her on public television that she was a leader. So, women with disabilities are still unfortunately, except for a few of our colleagues invisible. You will have that there are programs for women with disabilities in some closed areas, they will produce cookies without therefore underestimating the work that women can do, but until we see that our advisor is in the Bank of Roma or women with disabilities we will talk about discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53537	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Tomislav Okroša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53538	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, we heard today's report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2020. In particular, we must commend the open district offices of the Ombudsman in Osijek, Rijeka and Split, where a large number of complaints, applications and proposals from people with disabilities have been collected along with the Zagreb office. I believe that there are valuable and competent people working in these offices and that regionally deployed people can benefit people with disabilities more easily, faster and more effectively. The government of the Republic of Croatia has put great emphasis on supporting people with disabilities and their inclusion in society. What I find good and important is to find a way to transfer this good support from a national level to a local level and to the everyday life of people with disabilities. A good example is the town of Sibenik, which is in the process of developing a strategy for equating opportunities for people with disabilities. I would single out that in the previous and in this term, the Government has taken measures to improve the situation of disabled persons, particularly when it comes to increasing the personal disability from 1,250 to 1,500 kuna, and the funds for the personal disability have increased by 75% compared to 2016. At that time, it was 384 million kuna, and in the pandemic 2020, the year in which Croatia was hit by 2 major earthquakes after the rebalancing period, the funds amounted to 672 million kuna. The latest news since 21 June is that persons with disabilities also exercise the right to free transport on state ferry lines as well as the right to escort and private vehicle. As I come from the municipality of Dubrava, I would like to highlight an example of the cooperation of our municipality with the Association for Autism Zagreb. The municipality of Dubrava in Zagreb County has been working well with the Association for Autism Zagreb for many years. The Association for Autism Zagreb currently has, works on the third life community for people in the area, persons in the field of spectrum of autism. Of these three living communities 2 will be in the area of my municipality in Mostari and Gornji Vuksevac settlements. These days, we were pleased to hear that the project Our Plan is the world, so it's called a project to create 3 life groups of people from the spectrum of autism, that this project from the European Regional Development Fund has reached an 8.2 million kuna grant. This amount will be refurbished to restructure, refurbishing and upgrade the old district school in Gornji Vuksinc into 3 life communities for people from the spectrum of autism. This is an example of the excellent cooperation of Zagreb County, which has taken place in the area of schools where unfortunately there is no longer a teaching of the Association for Autism which has contributed most to this project and us as the municipalities of Dubrava that we are partner in this project where there already is meaning in Mostari settlement there is already a life community for people from the spectrum of autism and I have personally been there many times and I have personally convinced myself that the hard life is not only those persons, but it is a demanding life and their parents, brothers and sisters where they are truly one hero, but who do not lend. They worry daily because there were talks today about this association and here is a colleague from the SDP Ivana Posavec Krivec mentioned the Association for Autism and My Municipality and here I personally have personally joined the maximum and with these people not to have compassion but to help them. They have too much energy, their energy is incomprehensible to us. Rarely anyone who can invest so much positive energy to make life easier for their families, sons, brothers and sisters, but here the EU has heard and so should be continued. In 3 years there will be this third community of life and here is a small place, a small town of Gornji Vuksinac from the municipality of Dubrava will be home for 8 people from the spectrum of autism that will be cared for and employed by 10 people probably mostly from the area of Dubrava, which is excellent inclusion and local communities to help and co-existence with people from the spectrum of autism. Here's a thank you to the D.A. for the detailed report. And I believe the situation will be better. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53539	The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53540	President, fellow MPs and MPs, there are few of us, and I'm going to look back at something I have to admit that I consider one of the biggest problems within our state line and system. Namely, in Article 24. The Attorney General's Act on Persons with Disabilities writes what the consequences of not adopting an annual report are. So it is clear here that unless the Croatian Parliament accepts the report by the Ombudsman for disabled persons, the consequences of the Croatian Assembly may be its resolution from the duties it conducts. Therefore, one of the tasks of the representatives and the Croatian Parliament as a whole is to determine on the basis of this report whether she acted professionally, professionally, consciously, responsibly, protecting that social group for which she exists. And indeed, we all agreed today that this is an excellent report, which testifies to dedicated and diligent work. But it's bothering me and it's bothering me that there's no balance on the other side. Therefore, there is no record of the responsibility and consequences of the failure of other state bodies and their silence and inactions in relation to all that this report states. So if there is no responsibility for the authorities and if there is no mechanism for punishing the authorities for not taking what they should do, then we are actually representing a crumbling democracy in which the Constitution is a dead letter on paper and in which vulnerable groups such as disabled, persons with disabilities are not protected in an appropriate and inappropriate manner. And why am I saying that? Here, very specifically, this report says, and it hurts me and I'm ashamed to read it. According to the attorney general, there were 16 consultations last year, including 23 amendments and additions of legal and sublegal acts, 74 opinions were given on laws, plans, strategies and other documents. However, in 2020, it has stagnated in legislative changes, and the Ombudsman hopes that there will be more significant steps and hastily taking measures and the activities of the competent authorities in the coming period. However, it acknowledges that it is not even informed of the direction in which the new Social Care Act will go, but yet, here it hopes, that rights and services will be conceived in a way to support the independence, activity, independence and equality of persons with disabilities, and to compensate for the basis of disability that they will be just and based on the extent of the need for support or the weight of disability. Furthermore, the prosecutor says the adoption of the Law on Personal Assistants has been discussed for years, but its adoption is at least a decade late. Well, isn't that defeat? When services are not available or are limited in scope and fees do not allow for the settlement of the need for independent living, the accommodation of persons in institutions becomes the only solution. In addition to the tragic examples of a home in Andrasevec where 6 people have lost their lives, homes are said to be insecure. They're certainly not wanted places to live. The conditions of living in homes, the restriction of free exits and the inability to choose activities are the most common content of complaints sent to the attorney general. This is just one of the topics in which it is shown that the state treated people with disabilities as non-existent groups because we are aware of all the programs of assistance and support for housing, however, none of the policies of the disabled are mentioned at all, as if they do not exist. The Ombudsman said that there are weaknesses in society and its institutions as a whole, insufficient numbers of experts and staff in institutions, lack of information literacy and informing the work processes of a large number of institutions, poor availability of different services, transport still, etc. Isolation, discontinuation of rehabilitation, social and educational programmes for different categories of people with disabilities already is, and will show their consequences in the field of physical, mental, emotional and social health of individuals and families. This is our shame. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53541	Thank you very much. And right away, you can stay here, finally on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, will speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreshković, again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53542	Thank you, Chairman. You see how I've shown respect for what bothers you the most, the few seconds when I'm out of line. In her opening speech, the attorney general said, she pointed to three laws whose expectations are being passed. These are laws that prescribe personal disability, a law on personal assistance and spoke of the need for greater inclusion. As for the situation that she is not familiar with the direction in which the Government plans to come up with these laws, I would suggest that we turn the board around and otherwise advocate that HS assumes the role that it has under the Constitution and has, therefore, the Parliament is a legislative body and there is no reason for the Parliament to take no legislative initiative in some issues. This Report has a whole range of different areas that can be subdued by several different parliamentary committees and I don't see why, since here, people with disabilities are really one of the few topics where there are no ideological and party bickering, there we can achieve the greatest consensus, so let's use these different parent committees to put forward proposals that will be inclusive, constructive, in which consultation with this vulnerable social group will be carried out in advance, how best to understand these laws, which, behold, have been expected for decades and requested and thus help the Government, which is obviously busy or has some other priorities. Also, this recommendation, which is on page 5, which says that the Government is recommended that, through its ministries and bodies, regional and local self-governments, when drawing up strategic documents, a little more involve persons with disabilities and their representatives when defining objectives, deadlines and the necessary financial resources to take this recommendation seriously. And lastly, I'd like to say something about inclusiveness, I think people with disabilities and different categories of disability are not present enough in public and media space. I personally had a situation in the family when, when my nephew introduced his girlfriend's father who is deaf, then actually, through his stories and his life fate, I met a number of sports successes that he witnessed, among other things, the Croatian Alliance for Persons with Disabilities, the Sports Alliance of the Deaf, rarely when in the media we can read a cartoon about their winning medals and successes, I think it would have a stimulating effect on all those who face different life problems, difficulties and obstacles. It would somehow encourage them and motivate them and show that, with good will and support from the environment, there is no such obstacle that cannot be overcome, and in doing so I see the task and obligation of all of us to make our contribution how to do so and I must admit that just before this debate I have received one sad information that the person I mentioned is not going to say her name now, that I am not exposing my family to unnecessary public, but she died these days in an accident when she crossed the train line by hitting a train. So when we talk about inclusiveness, we would really like to find ways to find out that in all aspects, in all areas of work and actions of persons with disabilities who have, have been successful or faced with certain challenges, let us know that they are equal participants in our society and that their life stories can be a source of inspiration and power to all of us and encourage us to take advantage of our common potentials to our maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53543	Thank you very much and will finally speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53544	... Here I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, in the end, for a brief look at this report by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, as I said in my opening statement, the HDZ Club will support this report. [[Specially enabled.]] The Advocate General has made a series of recommendations quite certain that her recommendations will be considered because what I can say is that we are always and on the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia considering the defense attorney's proposals for persons with disabilities and that it is closely followed by what the Ombudsman said. Of course, all alliances and all associations of people with disabilities on the commission can say their own opinions, and together there we agree on a story that needs to be translated into legal proposals at times, and sometimes just some actions. What's important is to say that here, slowly, I'd say let's take good steps forward, yes, I'm sorry that here now there aren't all the colleagues and colleagues who discussed it, but many who have somehow referred and criticised what it isn't, for example. Here, accessibility and certainly it is not fully solved as it should be, but I wonder, is it anywhere in the world and will it ever be fully solved? My impression is that we will always have to fight with this accessibility, and I am sorry that some colleagues who had an opportunity to solve certain problems and even accessibility did not do so when they could. Well, good. We're here today. It's up to all of us to do more. Here, and last week, here in HS, we passed a Law on Islands to allow people with disabilities, not only to those living on islands, but to all, to free island transport. Today several times here has been mentioned and the transport that has been solved for all persons with disabilities, so transport by ferry, in public often around this transport is being pollemized and any speech that we did not want to support transport for children with developmental disabilities, here, I am glad that today it is here several times, as I have said, that the identity cards for the transport of persons with disabilities and their escorts and cars, so not only island children and persons with disabilities but all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia and children with developmental disabilities are being issued. We expect the Social Welfare Act, it should solve some problems, I hope it will, i.e. I believe that it will, there will be some other short negotiations on this and then the law is going very soon to the public debate. Of course, the Law on Inclusive Adjectives and the Law on Personal Assistance is what we all expect together as soon as possible. Why am I speaking very soon? Because as I pointed out in the opening statement, we finally managed to solve a problem that hadn't been solved for years, which is the status of a disabled person. And when you don't have it, you can want to solve it, neither do I, but you can't have the rights, especially the rights that are related to material, you can't solve them because you don't know who you're going to give a certain right to. Croatian Artists In a new system, we all have to adapt. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53545	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And we will finish working for today, and we will continue on Wednesday 30 June at 9.30 and the first item will be the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2020, and until then I wish you a pleasant weekend. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 15:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-25-0.u53547	The report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2019 is submitted by HZMO. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2019 Who is for? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 114 MPs and representatives, 103 for, 9 abstentions and 2 against and concluded that it was proposed by the home body. The report on the work of the Board of Appeals for 2020 is submitted by the Board of Appeals. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. It is noted that the report on the work of the Committee for Work on Appeals for 2020. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 114 MPs and MPs, 109 for, 5 abstentions, have voted, and it has been concluded that the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
