ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71537	Your Honor, what is the value of one term in politics? No, this time I'm not talking about all these unspeakable mercenaries about mere handlifters that most citizens don't even know their names and last names because they're rarely seen in constituencies. When I ask what the value of one term is, I mean what remains behind someone who has been on public duty in terms of political legacy and results. My legacy in the former public office as chairman of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest are the principles of action and the overall results of the work of that body. Whatever anyone thinks, this commission, after the change of the people who lead it, resisted the attacks of Andrej Plenkovic on his work. HDZ politicians are corrupt, their political party is corrupt, and the independence of institutions, especially anti-corruption bodies, is very disturbing. And that's the main reason why now Andrej Plenkovic is tearing down my legacy by bad law changes. But the role and importance of the Committee on Conflict of Interest is neither my whim nor my invention. The commission was an important factor in the EU accession process under Chapter 23, which was the last and most difficult one to close because it concerned the rule of law, building independent institutions to fight corruption effectively. Do you remember the date of the signing of the accession contract for Croatia's entry into the EU on 9 December 2011, but the same day also came news that the state's attorney's office has filed charges against HDZ and Ivo Sanader. It is the date when the International Anti-Corruption Day is also marked. Just imagine how much symbolic there is in that. 10 years later Croatia is the most corrupt member of the EU. 10 years later, Croatia does not have a state attorney's office that dares to open investigations and press charges against ministers, let alone the prime minister. 10 years later in Croatia is the rule of law and independence of the institutions so that we would never be accepted anywhere near the EU. And now you can see how great the venture was what was done in the two years of Jadranka Kosor's term as prime minister. Today's anti-corruption policies of her time are impossible. For example, under the 2011 Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the commission could have entered the political bank accounts, could have called them as sanctions to resign, could have sought their shift. But against the authority I believe the SDP soldier of the party has filed a constitutional suit, so the powers in the Constitutional Court and brought it down, and that is why these powers have never been brought to life in practice. Today, Joseph Leko is one of the judges of the Constitutional Court. Before that year 2011, all other EU members had serious doubts that Croatia would be able to become a legal state. Jadranka Kosor managed to convince them that we were better than we were and that's her legacy, that's the lasting value of her mandate. Andrej Plenkovic will one day explode very quickly as an inflatable balloon of his potential, and there will be nothing left behind that would be worth mentioning for the state or history. There won't be any positive trace. There may be some unopened investigation, several criminal charges against his ministers and ministers who have been lost somewhere in USKOK and DORH drawers. And of course behind it, as well as behind every volatile corrupt HDZ power, will remain one on the knees of a completely devastationed country of collapsed institutions. But it's not just his fault it's the guilt of all of you HDZs who are clapping and raising their hands to the party boss, whoever he is, licking and giving away is the only possible existence. There are also MPs in this assembly who equally adorned Jadranka Kosor when she was in a position of power, and they stepped on her and shoeed her just to enlist a new leader. Branko Bačić, you know what I'm talking about. I do not like Jadranka Kosor, nor did I love her as prime minister, but because of the creation of conditions for EU entry when it seemed impossible, because of the successful deblockation, and then the end of the negotiations, especially in relation to Chapter 23, because of the best and most advanced anti-corruption laws that Croatia has ever had, because during its prime days, an investigation and prosecution began both against Ivo Sanader and HDZ, because in her day we still had a country in which it could fight corruption deserved to be seen as an international day of fighting corruption for this assembly, she deserved respect. And you HDZ men whose mandates serve as pure parasites on the coat of arms of the people and of the state that you falsely love all together when you add up to each other by what Jadranka Kosor left behind [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You're not even her ankle. [[Intruder: Your time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71538	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bacic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71539	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Oreshkovic injured Article 248. The Rules of Procedure persistently insult and demeaning HDZ MPs by often calling them unspeakable. What Mrs. Oreshkovic your scientific and professional career was before you became chairman of the commission exclusively by the decision of Zoran Milanović and the hands of the SDP of an unknown, of an unknown lawyer You became president and now you're misusing the data you had [[Intruder: Thank you, dear colleague Bačić.]] while you were the chairman of that committee. [[Intruder: Comrade Bačić, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71540	So, first of all, the colleague was offended, but I won't give her a warning because I don't give it to others either, you've replicated it, so I'll give you a warning, but I'll give her a warning and a colleague of Oreshkovic because she yelled from the scene, and she didn't get the right speech that I consider inappropriate, so she doesn't behave in the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians and Parliamentarians, good morning to you. At first, I wish on behalf of all of you the happy name of those who bear the name of Nikola or Nikolina and, of course, congratulations to sailors, children whose name is St. Nikola's protector. The second we had three requests today for the MPs to get together through the video link, they sent me memos that they couldn't be tested, so they couldn't attend the session. So, I can't accept that argument because testing is possible here in the infirmary at our doctor's and from testing to finding it takes 20 minutes. So it seems to me that some colleagues just like we talked at the Bureau session are now trying not to say abuse, but a little hunting in the blurry. So the very clear rules that we've defined and asked everyone to stick to them so that we don't avoid what we've defined in our work. First today, we'll start with free speeches, deliver the position of the club representatives and independent representatives, and then we'll start with the amendments. The first is today's Social Democrats and Honored counterpart Davor Bernardic's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71567	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues today are on the agenda to discuss amendments to the state budget. Representatives in the assembly have given hundreds of amendments, and we know in advance that the government of the Republic of Croatia will not accept any amendments. So today, there is a simple play on the scene, one big farce in which there is some kind of influence of the Croatian Parliament on politics in our country, and this influence is practically no longer there. The assembly is reduced to the government's hand-lifting office. So, the council turned into a simple handlift for the government. In this way, the Croatian Parliament that hit the foundations of Croatian statehood has been completely marginalised. It's another institution that thanks to the government's policy managed to push aside, be marginalized, become practically irrelevant in our society. And after 5 years of this government, the question arises where Croatia is today and what is the key question, whether citizens in our country live better. In doing so, I think of those who stayed in Croatia because the census recently showed that there were as many as 400 thousand of us compared to 2011. Many, especially young people, have moved away because they have not been able to endure an injustice that has been generated precisely by untiming, corruption, and crime. Unfortunately, we have fewer and fewer employees. Only 60% of the working-active population works, and according to an estimate of the unemployment rate of 7.4% in 2021, this is unfortunately the third highest rate among the new so-called. transition members of the EU. So there are less and less of us, Croatia is getting older, people are living harder, inflation eats and such fragile economic growth, all accumulates, increases in cost of life, directors such as electricity, gas, water, municipal fees, and consumer baskets with basic life-forms such as bread, oil, flour, milk have collected as much as 19% over the past year. So we haven't reached the 2019 GDP yet, but that's why it's getting more expensive. It is therefore logical to conclude that people live worse and that economic recovery will be longer and harder. And while the whole of Europe is preparing for a new crisis, our government is pretending that there is no crisis or inflation or new strains of virus, but no problems in the economy because how else do we explain that in 2022 virtually no aid is planned for the economy from the state budget? It is abolished, support that amounted to over 2 billion kuna in this year, practically to the level of change in that amount. It's a classic ignoring reality by principle, the village burns, and the grandmother combs. This is particularly important because the government plans to spend as much as 23 billion kuna next year. The question is, what? On planes? At the expense of the Prime Minister and the Minister? Corruption? Why? Because for work, social services and pensions, there goes as much as 3 billion kunas in the budget for '22. For health care affected by the pandemic and debt, there are as much as 4 billion kunas in comparison to the 2021 plan, and we know what kind of health care is, we know how much debt and how much hospital system is burdened. So in the 2022 budget, there is no p of the plan to solve the accumulated health problems. So, they single out and cut pensions, for health care, for the welfare, for the economy affected by Covid, and what's growing, increases the spending of the Office of the Prime Minister who plans, here, in the following year to spend as much as 250 million kuna. My question is for what? For perhaps the cost of some kind of propaganda, promotion, some campaign, while the health system, unfortunately, is on the verge of strength. How are we gonna cover that... Government and its ministers? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well as usual, new responsibilities will be paid by Croatian citizens, as if we are not already the most in charge of the EU's debt share of 84%. And how else are we gonna cover it? By selling state property that he doesn't write about, and the government plans to sell state property worth half a billion kuna next year. If you really look at this State Budget proposal for 2022, it can be concluded that this document bears a name, we don't know where we're going, but that's why we spend a lot of time. While the crisis starts knocking on the door. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71592	Let's go to the last debate, dear colleague Branko Bačić on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71593	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is the third day that the signing of the Constitutional and Legislative referendum takes place. By reading questions, the referendum questions, the impression is that someone has misjudged the bridgers or they do not understand their own text themselves because, if a referendum question for a constitutional referendum is addressed, although it states the epidemic continues not to oblige HS to act in accordance with Article. 17 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and thus the whole procedure leads to fiasco. Namely, in the proposed question that should become an article. 17 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, nothing changes. If a sufficient number of signatures are collected, if the proposed question is in accordance with the Constitution and if a referendum is carried out, even if it receives the required majority, such a new article. 17 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which would result from a referendum, does not impose an obligation on the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. And in such a new article. 17. which would now mean an epidemic or a pandemic will continue to write the same as in the existing article. 17th, which is that Parliament can, but does not have to limit rights and freedom to decide two-thirds of the majority. Namely, if the Parliament wanted to, and now it could have led the epidemic under natural disaster and made a decision from the Article. 17. The Republic of Croatia and two-thirds majority limit human rights and freedoms, but we have estimated that such an approach is unnecessary and above all, would be ineffective. Evidence that this is the case and that is based on an existing article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia may decide in the HS. 17 is also a proposal from the Homeland Movement, which he referred to in the procedure in which he proposes to activate the Article. 17. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to measure, implementing measures are adopted by law by a two-thirds majority. Therefore, the gentlemen of the Most, this whole signing process is becoming immaterial and a great deal of energy is being spent, and no effect from such a referendum and such an issue. As for the second referendum issue, the legislative referendum on its constitutionality has been declared by a number of constitutional and legal experts, on its constitutionality... but what would result from such a question is a commitment to the Croatian Parliament to take enforcement measures instead of the Staff in the fight against the epidemic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here it is necessary to reiterate once again that the Parliament, not the Staff of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, has established a catalogue of measures to combat the epidemic. Their activation, therefore, of these implementing measures at a certain point and at a specified site of the Republic of Croatia, shall be determined by the Staff with the supervision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Can you imagine the situation in which the Assembly would take two-thirds of the majority of the implementation epidemiological measures to introduce, for example, on-line teaching in the second class of an elementary school or to determine the number of stands on a market in Croatia or a decision to ban private gathering with more than 10 people in the Djulovac municipality as measured by the Stožer measure, for example a year ago. So, such a referendum issue and a solution, except that it deeply disrupts the government's trode and incursion in the power of the executive government, and that there is no such solution anywhere in democratic societies and parliaments, such a solution would prevent an effective fight against the epidemic, and then the MOST would charge the ruling for ignorance and inefficiency and outbreak of epidemics and seek government resignation. Gentlemen from MOST people in Croatia and the world die daily from covida-19. The health system is overloaded in Croatia. Hospitals reduce the cold drive, and you would lift health measures like a covid certificate that helps stop the spread of the epidemic and preserve our health and our lives. And the assumption of life as a fundamental human right is the health that our doctors and nurses first care about. It's up to us politicians to help them, not help them. And you MOST colleagues stay out of business and let in the 21st century talk about health and decide science and professions, not ignorance, fear and comments from social networks. whose fear and ignorance you're trying to profit politically. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Politics is short of breath.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71594	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is a colleague of Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71595	This Regulation shall enter Burning under your heels, colleague Bačić, dangerously burning Disdaining parliamentary deputies. [[Intruder President: What in Article 238?]] It burns under your heels, colleague Bačić. You're burning up when even for this speaker you're trying to play constitutional-legal expert. But no, you may be in control of the Constitutional Court, but as you can see yourself, you do not control Croatian citizens who give us more and more signatures on our referendum. This Parliament knows what it will decide? Whether Hrebak can get a pass from Capak and a restriction on constitutional rights and freedoms, and not on paystands, and you are afraid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71596	My colleagues, Selak-Raspudić, so you get a warning, that's quite clear. But I'm appealing to you is not correct. You also had your own exposure which was unlikely for HDZ colleagues to react. Now that they've made their point, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. It's not fair. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71597	Dear President of the Parliament, the article was also injured in 238, but practically the entire Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. What Mr. Bacic just said is something that is extremely dangerous. Not entering the right of everyone to sign the referendum Mr. Bacic said practically that HDZ has a plan to tear down the referendum. So he announced either the collapse in the Constitutional Court or the collapse in the APIS. It's not a democratic procedure and it's playing people's will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71598	You get a warning from your colleague Bernardic. It has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it doesn't make sense. Do you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71599	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Bernardić, injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure belittled the MPs. I did not say anywhere if you listened carefully that anyone would dispute the referendum, but I said that even a referendum and implement what is normal and social achievement that such outcome will not change the Constitution nor Article 17 because it will continue to be the same as it has so far. And that's why I said the referendum was unnecessary and that it was a fiasco.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71600	Thank you. This was also a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so that you get a second warning from your colleague Bacic. My colleague Rasudic is back again, isn't he? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71601	Article 238 of my colleague Bačić degrades parliamentary representatives because it is false. You said that our constitutional constitution is one a la carte menu by which you could choose which article you would go through in this situation, that you felt unnecessary to go along with Article 17. Well, now it's gonna stop being your menu because we're going to define it clearly with this referendum. and then it will prevent you from carrying out your will arbitrarily through the Parapolitical Body of the Staff and giving permission [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] certain members when you need to raise your hands here in the Parliament. [[Intruder President: Fellow Members...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71602	You will receive a second warning from your colleagues. I don't know how it can be to be disdaining an attorney to get someone to state their position. I really don't get it. You speak of freedom and democracy, and here I should warn those who speak their views. So, I mean really funny. But good, that's it. You're getting two warnings. So there are two warnings from Bačić, a colleague of Bernardić has one and a colleague of Oreskovic. Let's move on now, now it's time for my colleague, Selak Rasdic, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71636	We've had different attacks since we launched the referendum, and many of them were under the belt. We usually don't comment on them or fight back by ourselves because politics is a struggle in which many resources are allowed, many, but not all. Human lives are not bid numbers, these are fates and stories that do not stand in a sentence as neither tears nor voids that remain in the hearts of all those who have lost their loved ones and therefore need to be treated with maximum respect. Insufferable to play and abuse the tragedy of people who have lost their loved ones so that they can stick to the head of a referendum organizer who is aimed at legal and legitimate decision on the pandemic of the political, moral and civilizational bottom that can only come from the inhumane HDZ PR kitchen. The HDZ headquarters manages all aspects of the fight against the pandemic from day one to day and carries all the blame or credit for the number of patients and deceased. All we could do all this time was make an appeal, like the one more than a month ago, that at the entrance to hospitals and other risk institutions all of them had to be tested and vaccinated and unvaccinated in order to protect the most vulnerable social groups. Only last week with several weeks of fatal delay in HDZ headquarters as a pilot project introduces testing of both vaccinated and unvaccinated medical staff. How much human life has been lost because of their stubborn insistence on discriminatory, selective and anti-epidemiologically conceived Covid certificates will show some future accounting. This insolent manipulation of the dead once again shows their true unscrupulous face. Therefore, once again we call on all Croatian citizens to stand up to them and create a firm, legal and legitimate framework for a more successful joint fight against the pandemic in this referendum. This week we will discuss amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. These changes will make us laugh because they will introduce a new measure of Covid, although it has been in practice in some institutions for several months, and in recent weeks in all state and public institutions. What Croatian citizens do not know or what they may not yet know is that by introducing Covid as a new measure into the law, the possibility of their use will be extended, not only to state and public servants but also to any other places, restaurants, cafes and locations at which the HDZ headquarters decides overnight. Also, what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia may not currently be aware of is that the projection of this Budget, as well as the description of this law, does not indicate anywhere, does not specify any additional means necessary for testing public and public officials, leaving room for an open question until when this free testing will take place at all. And let's mention it again, yes, for free, but not for everyone. The first ones who are discriminated against in this knowledge country by this test and who they themselves have to pay out of their own pocket are the ones whose health and financial situation we should have been closest to and who we should have taken care of ourselves, and these are our students, which is unacceptable. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, HDZ does not want you to go to the referendum because it does not want you to fight through institutions because it is the only legal and legitimate way for things to change in this country because it will require an account of Brussels, which will end in the failure of someone's career ambitions. No, what they want from you is to fight on the street because there are all the resources allowed. Then one or two extreme or risky factors will be inserted and everything will be declared a terrorist group and all your legitimate demands will fall into the other and be refuted in turn. Such a principle of action is present throughout Europe. No, we're not gonna fight in the street. We'll fight through institutions, but we'll fight for institutions as well. We will steal from you the institutions you have mismanaged, return both to them and to Croatian citizens dignity. And then, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, let you remain on the street as the only means of combat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71710	We are now going to the fifth debate, dear colleague Hajdas-Doncic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71711	Good morning! Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, this is therefore related to the acceptance or non-acceptation of certain amendments. In fact, it concerns functional merger or non-combination of local administration units and self-government. So we know that in Europe in the last 40 years there has been a process of amalgaming local units or joining local units with several goals, and it is actually the first to suppress... basic small units, micro units of local self-government, and to actually create a raster of equally large and developed local units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By studying the relevantness of the literature, it seems to me that there is a growing trend in Europe towards larger functional local units, which means that any larger local unit would integrate a larger city settlement, which is then surrounded by a wider rural belt. The countries are initiating such processes because they do not want to perpetuate the growing difference between their local units, but on the other hand they want to preserve their autonomy. Some units of local self-government are mostly voluntarily involved in these actions, which means that the process was more or less painless and only in some extreme cases the state had to apply some elements of coercion. 400 basic principles affecting the merger of local units, therefore this is efficiency. So more services for the smallest possible cost, democracy, that is the influence of citizens on local structures, distribution of how to ensure the supervision of citizens, residents of processes and resources and actually endogenous local development or how to improve local economic growth. And now watch out for two examples that you can hardly compare them with Croatia, but they are very indicative. This is Sweden, which in the reform of the 1960s, means where in the 1970s it calculated that for the normal functioning of basic schools, the population base should be up to 8,000 inhabitants, and for the welfare system up to 6,000 inhabitants. Finally, the opinion prevailed that each unit should be able to carry out a whole range of jobs of broader importance, which means economic growth, housing, social planning services, and a minimum limit of 8,000 inhabitants per new unit was established. It is also interesting to mention Norway, which has since 1980 been in the process of joining and joining local units of local self-government and administration, so they have reached some 5 thousand inhabitants as a factor of the number of residents per unit of local administration and self-government, but what is interesting and what will happen to Croatia when they started voluntary association, which is the municipalities that join together with financial support, so from 1980 to 2000. Only two municipalities volunteered to hang out. Now what do we have in the Republic of Croatia? So we have 429 municipalities and 127 cities. We have extremely small units of local self-government according to the number of inhabitants, the average in municipalities is 2,960, and in cities 17.681 residents without the City of Zagreb. More than half of the municipalities have fewer than 3,000 inhabitants, and half of your cities have fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, and then your biggest problem is income per capita in units of local self-government and administration ranging from 1,700 kuna to 27,000 kuna, and then what we get, so that's the taste of my free speech. So 10 days ago a unit of local administration and self-government gets you a questionnaire from the Ministry of Justice and Administration so this is not a bad seminar level, this is a level, I have no idea, eighth grade primary school that repairs sits one, so where do you ask local units of administration and self-government specify no more than 5 types of jobs from... The units you consider to be the most important to your citizens, what are the jobs and whether you would like to join in voluntarily. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what is it, is it a modern state or is it, I don't know what it is Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71728	We're going to the sixth debate, dear colleague Stromar on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and independent representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71729	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia, family houses account for about 65% of the total housing fund, and it is responsible for about 40% of total energy consumption at national level. The largest family houses were built before 1987, which means that most of them belong to worse energy classes, do not have or have only minimal thermal insulation. Such facilities are extremely large energy consumers, and in today's time limited energy sources are the savages of their prices, and ultimately climate change is a difficult factor in the process of environmental protection, economic development and citizens' health. Currently prices are protected until 1.4, and what further? Electricity and gas prices will certainly be higher because these prices dictate the world market situation, by then certainly not all geopolitical problems and conflicts will be resolved, so that these prices will be brought down and stabilised. This is precisely why the application of energy efficiency measures, a better external envelope, i.e. façades, and more quality carpentry and installation of systems for the use of renewable energy sources such as solar power plants and heat cranes become a priority. In this way, up to 60% can be reduced in reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions in the regulatory cost atmosphere. A few months ago, during the debate on NPOO, I said that given the amount of energy recovery resources available, we should not wait with competitions and the implementation of energy reconstruction projects, but with the tenders should be launched as soon as possible. And I'm glad to see that from tomorrow, a new cycle of applying for co-financing for the energy reconstruction of family homes is being secured this time by as many as 390 million kunas. I hope this time, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund is fully prepared to accept thousands and thousands of demands and that there will be no indignation as last time. One assumption was created, which is that citizens were able to send their large documentation to their mailboxes even before the actual request. The fund already knows how many applications are expected, so I can be ready tomorrow at 9:00 for citizens' applications. I expect two things from the fund, the first that data processing will be quick and successful, and the second that unless there are enough funds for all reported funds to be found for those below the line. This project is extremely good for our citizens because it does not reduce energy consumption, this project is extremely good for the preservation of our environment due to the reduction of CO2 emissions, this project is also extremely good for our small construction companies and construction materials manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia. I expect new competitions will be opened for the energy efficiency of houses, as well as for multi-state buildings, as well as for public buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71740	We're going to the fourth debate, a respected colleague of Ivana Kekin on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71741	Dear fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman. Last Friday, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture of Inhuman and Demeaning Treatment or Penalty at the Council of Europe published a report on its ad hoc visit to Croatia between August 10th and 14th last year. So, this report has been in some drawers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for months now, and despite our colleague from the Green-Left bloc, William Matula, has referred a representative question to the prime minister about whether the report will be published and when the answer has not arrived, all deadlines have certainly been broken. But there is nothing to be surprised, apparently, that breaking the law, breaking deadlines, muttering, all of this has become a standard procedure that this government promotes in the management of migration. The CPT report we had the opportunity to see only because the State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Teresa Gras was a failure to break an agreement that the government actually had the opportunity not to publish. Mrs. Grass, it's not her only incident to say so. She's already glamoured with the migration statements. For example, I'll give the famous one when she falsely accused human rights activists of dressing up in police uniforms and beating up migrants across borders. Smart enough. But let's get back to the report. Unfortunately, there is nothing new in the Green-Left bloc for us but confirmation of what independent organisations are talking about, which is that the police at Croatian borders systematically violate the rule of law and violate human rights. So, after watching reports from brave journalists on how the police beat up migrants, after the European Court ruled in favour of the Hussini family, and against the Republic of Croatia now comes a third confirmation that the government is managing the migrant crisis in a way that violates human rights. We strongly oppose this and point out once again that Croatian borders against illegal migration can be defended without young people being pushed naked across the river by young people without having to drive the rails out of Croatia without people driving in vans like potatoes as they puke on each other, without having to watch out for the Croatian border without all this. In particular, we would like to highlight another detail, which is that this report says that the Republic of Croatia also violates Article 7 and Article 13. The Schengen Borders Code, and we know what that means. This means that the access of the Republic of Croatia to the Schengen area will begin to be questioned, and that is precisely how the Government of the Republic of Croatia manages migration. Both Prime Minister Plenkovic and Deputy Prime Minister Bozinovic are very wrong if they think that 999 million, pardon a billion and 200 million, pardon a billion and 230 million as they have given France for military planes will be enough to buy Croatia's entrance to Schengen. Because in order to enter Schengen, a consensus of all members is needed, and many of them have started to express their skepticism and delay over whether Croatia is ready to enter Schengen, and that is exactly how Croatia is acting at its borders. So, this government is slowly but surely leading our country into a dead end, still without one move that would show or at least indicate that they want to change direction, and this is already challenging Croatian national vital interests. And finally, as always when we talk about this subject, and this time we want to express our support to all MIP employees and all police officers who disagree with such practices as superiors. We know that there are people in both the MUP and the police who would be able to protect our borders without living on the weaker, on human beings as a method of border protection. We're sure your time is just coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71766	Let's go to another debate, dear colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71767	Ladies and gentlemen, in Croatia, we are witnessing the persistent ignoring of the universally visible facts. No one can argue that the salaries in all segments are low, that the doctor in Ljubljana earns much more than in Zagreb, that the cook in Salzburg earns more than in Pula, but that the German does not have to go for a technical examination as a Croat every year, and that technical examination and registration are in Germany cheaper, although the German earns 4 times more than the Croats. Are we, as political representatives of Croatian citizens, invited to look for the causes of these devastating facts in doing everything necessary for the Croatian man to live better? We should. Unfortunately, in Croatia we witness a kind of political blindness where people who make up the ruling structures simply do not accept undeniable evidence and facts, although I am almost certain that they are aware of their own irrationality. But personal interests prevail over national interests. This week we will adopt the State budget to which we can give the working title "Document for the Split of Croatia". I personally warned the Prime Minister that in the State budget we had almost no income from the collection of the criminal tax, i.e. of the disproportionate income of the assets. We have European cases where in regulated countries such as Austria, France, Germany or Belgium there is always income from, we can say, tax evasion, and why is there no Croatia? In a democratic society, the issue cannot remain irresponsible. Where did Todorovic get the castle or the President of the Constitutional Court 10 million savings. Croatian institutions, such as the Tax Administration, cannot act on the basis of impressions or impressions, in principle someone has or has had a large company, so he is rich. The property has to be proven. It's proven by numbers, not by floscules or impressions. Tax administration in cases where someone drives a car worth a million kuna and has a house of 2.../incomprehensible/... million euros, and makes 100 thousand kuna a year, has to determine what he bought bread and milk from, paid for electricity and from which source that wealth came. Here I stand for German pragmatism and we do not need theatre detention at 6 a.m. but we need an efficient tax administration that will bring tax offenders to justice and collect that 60 percent criminal tax. This would mean billions of surpluses in Croatia, and we wouldn't keep raising new loans to pay back old loans, which is a crime against our children we owe. But here we come to a fundamental problem. People who lead the system aimly to spread defertism through Croatian media. In addition, these media falsely claim that the regulated system in Croatia is impossible to establish, that too many people are involved in illegal activities etc. But, ladies and gentlemen, that's just a lie. There may be 2,000 people in Croatia who fear transparency and are in the media, politics and justice. They are in the interest of not applying the laws so that they can continue to hunt in blurry, but the rest of almost 4 million citizens have no fear of transparency. However, an orderly system wants every decent citizen. Here I will remind you of one painful point of our recent past that plastically describes a lie as an instrument in committing a crime, in this case a war, but the methods of applying this lie are still experienced today in all social segments. By the way, November 21st, 1991. Belgrade's evening news quoted me as saying, "The Croats killed 41 Serbian babies before they broke in Vukovar." It's a finished quote. Of course, it was a faceless lie, but what's scariest about this lie is that at the moment of the target spread of this lie, the Serbian regime is the greatest massacre since World War II, killing mass children and civilians in the Ovcara. That means the perpetrator of a disgusting crime during the course of the crime invents and accuses the victim of committing the crime. Indeed, the rarely seen defeat of humanity and humanity is based on the bestial lie historians call the Uboba-Kosovo methods of manipulation. Let us return to Croatia in 2021 and rule of lies as a social model. The question arises whether people who manage Croatia, Ubobesko-Kosovo methods use it? Because when the European Commission arrests the worst judiciary in Croatia, when it brings out these exact evidence of crime and corruption of state officials, the Prime Minister, for example, There's no answer to that evidence at all. Simply because they are inexcusable, they are already a colossal insult trying to manipulate the method of mentioning evening news from Belgrade. The ruling structures are joint to fight transparency, protect corruption and participate in it and, of course, laminate about ideology in order to focus the public on barren discussions thus protecting their illegal wealth and, of course, their corruption. That is why it is the obligation of all democratic thinkers to fight for the establishment of the rule of law and equality of all citizens before the law in order to establish a fair Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71768	We're going to a third debate right now. The esteemed colleague Lerotić will speak on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u71769	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Last week's IDS representative club submitted 57 amendments to the State Aprogram proposal of around 1.5 billion kuna during the debate on the State budget. On Friday afternoon, we received an official e-mail, a review of the amendments submitted, especially those which do not comply with the article. 38 Budget Law. I stress that amendments that do not comply with the Law in the House are not discussed at all and are not voted on at all. Among these Amendments which allegedly do not comply with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 38 The Budget Law is also an amendment to the IDS. At first, we had no particular suspicions because it happens with a large number of amendments to steal and some mistakes. However, when we studied the materials in detail, we saw that this one amendment that has been rejected as illegal to us by accident and convenient to the ruling amendment that we are proposing personal disability for 250 kn each month for each user. No explanation has been given why this amendment is illegal. So this problem is no longer purely technical but also political dimension, because there is potentially a group of manipulations of the Amendments in order to avoid a statement and vote on this Amendment so that representatives of the rulings would not have to explain here for a public speaker why the amendment is being rejected and how it is possible that the State has more than 8 billion kunas for the purchase of combats and there is no need to increase personal disability. In order to be absolutely clear, I will also read Article 28 of the Budget Act which has 4 items: 1st paragraph says all amendments and additions accepted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed State budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit of the State budget and projections. During the debate on the State Budget Proposal and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal for a State Budget and projection may be adopted provided that other expenditures and expenditures in a specific section of the budget are reduced simultaneously. Paragraph 3 of the proposal of Article 2 of this Article shall not be burdened by the budgetary stock or by the burden of additional borrowing or previously assumed commitments. The provisions of this article shall, in an appropriate manner, apply to the units of local, regional or regional self-government, and I believe that none of this has been violated in particular when we take into account the identical amendment submitted last year to the budget for 2021. I further stress that in the calculation of the amount needed for our amendment we used the data set out in Annex 6. – Explanation of the financial plans of users of the State budget on p. 1575 says the target value of the number of disabled persons is 2022. 45632 persons. When you multiply that number by 250kn and 12mn that amount we predicted for the personal disability in 2022, and there is a clear question of where we were wrong. The HDZ often seeks to show the opposition as an incompetent senseless and barren. For some opposition MPs that I am clear with, neither we from IDS agree politically at all. They're said to be cowards who are afraid of wattice and a test of two seconds. Who in this case is a coward who's afraid to come out for this pay phone for 2 minutes and explain that the State doesn't have 250 kn per month for a person with a severe disability while we have 8 billion kuna for planes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76807	We've come to an end, so let's go to what's going to last today and tomorrow. This is a statement on the amendments to the proposal for the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024. In addition to the proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024, proposals for the financial plans of extra budget users for 2022 and projection of plans for 2023 and 2024 for Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency, Croatian Health Insurance Institute, Restructure and Sales Centre, Croatian Motorways, Croatian Passenger Transport, HZ Infrastructure are also submitted. The debate was concluded, and the amendments were submitted by MP Damir Bajs, representative Vesna Vucilović, representative Marijan Pavicek, representative Željko Lenart, representative of the Croatian National Party Liberal Democrats, Croatian Party of Pensioners and Independent Representatives, representative of Veljko Kajtazi, representative of Željko Sačić, representative of Ružica Vukovac, representative of SDP, representative of the SDP, representative of Michel Jakšić, representative of Sanja Radolović, representative of Arsen Bauk, representative of Andreja Marić, representative of Mrela Ahmetović, representative of Martina Vlasić, representative of the SDP, representative of Mra Ban Vlahek, representative of Mro Vidović, representative of the representative of the IDS, representative of Nikola Bartulica, representative of Mro Bartulica, representative of the Club, representative of the Club, Mrovnik Grinik, Mrovnik of the Club, Mrovnik, Mražnik Zak Ban Vlažnik, Mrlažinić, Mrvnik, Mrvnik, Mrvnik, Mrvnik, Mrvnik, Mrvnik and Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mr Vladić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mrvić, Mr. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means and I now call on the proposing representatives to be seen about the amendments submitted. In turn, the first amendment is related to the State Election Commission, State Secretary Zdravko Zrinašić will be shown. So, the first amendment of the representative of Maria Selak Rasudić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76808	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. Since neither the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia nor the electoral laws have prescribed the possibility of electronic voting at this time, it is not necessary to provide funds for its introduction, since without amending the constitutions and these electoral laws, the application of electronic voting is not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76809	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76810	So, I do not accept the argument and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. We have long advocated and offered arguments as to why it is necessary to introduce an electronic vote and not only introduce an electronic vote but generally digitise our electoral process, facilitate the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to hear their democratic will. This is particularly important at this point for two reasons, on the one hand, digitisation is an EU imperative, and I guess we are blindly following the trends that are coming from Brussels, so I expect that we should not be ahead of this, but simply catch up with some more progressive countries. On the other hand, we are in the middle of a pandemic and it is totally unacceptable that our citizens at any election risk their health when they decide to express their democratic will. So I really think that it is necessary to allocate more resources to begin the digitalisation process of democracy, and then hopefully when the HDZ government soon falls it all and changes it within the law so that we really have the opportunity to hear the will of our citizens in all ways that are legal and legitimate, and one of them is certainly the electronic way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76811	Now let's go to Amendment No. 2. he is tied to the government of the Republic of Croatia, again representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76812	The amendment is not accepted. The Office of Associations, as an expert service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of the A509042 activities, has planned sufficient resources to implement measures under its jurisdiction based on the Corruption Prevention Strategy from 2021 to 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76813	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76814	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, this is one of the most unusual items within the entire budget. You have only singled out 16 thousand 500 kunas for the implementation of the National Corruption Prevention Programme. At first, I thought you were confused, missing not one but two zeros, and then I realized, then corruption surprised you every time. You are found again every time one of HDZ's parliamentary representatives, a minister or someone in the party's presidency is indicted if we even get to the charge of corrupt acts. You never expected it, so as children, you marvel at the sun every day that comes out. So here's to the next surprise you wouldn't be welcomed by the unprepared, I've decided in good faith to help you and just in case you add 10 million kuna to the implementation of the National Corruption Management Programme to the next time the sun comes out again what happens to corruption in HDZ you have the means to, and I'm going to have to say, something like that happens again and tomorrow. Of course I'm going to ask that amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76815	We're going to the 3rd Amendment, Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76816	The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that it is in the same way as Amendment No. 2nd Honored Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76817	Here you go, Comrade Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76818	I thank the chairman. We ask that this amendment be voted upon, we do not accept your refusal. So, the fact is that this assembly adopted a Anti-Corruption Strategy, the fact that there are several action plans to fight corruption, is the fact that this government claims to have zero tolerance for corruption, is also the fact that this budget provides for 16 thousand kuna, means one pay of the anti-corruption officer, so the question is how will the fight against corruption if there is no money, how will the Anti-Corruption Strategy be implemented just adopted in this assembly and all action plans? We live in a country where its residents have one of the highest rates of perception of corruption in the EU, especially of course political corruption, and if in the Republic of Croatia's budget it is forecasting 16 thousand 5 hundred kunas to fight corruption I think it is clear that this government has no intention of dealing with corruption in any way, but, in fact, with 16.5 thousand, it will also encourage further corruption because obviously corruption does not bother and see no problem in this and therefore we insist on voting on this Amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76819	4. The amendment of Representative Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76820	Amandamn is not accepted. Content similar to the previous one with the same explanation, therefore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76821	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76822	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is quite clear that by refusing you three amendments that are similar to content. That your strategy for preventing corruption is a complete farce and the Action Plan to be adopted for the period from 2022 to 2024 will also appear to be the same. Why do I say that? In order for a Strategy to be implemented and for some Action Plan to be implemented, it is necessary to provide for preconditions for its implementation. The implementation of this key strategy should begin right from the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which should be coordinated and monitored. By providing you with anti-corruption funds on this item with 16 500 kuna, you have actually underestimated and shown your true intentions, or do not intend to go into the fight against corruption, and taking into account that you are equally on bread and water holding material and all other rights with which the General State Attorney's Office should work, as well as your intentions to actually rule out the Committee on Prevention, the conflict of interest, it is clear that there are no real intentions for you to implement the fight against corruption and that everything will remain a dead letter on paper, because the budget is a key document that proves politics, and your policy is that you plan to single only 16.500 kuna and that you refuse any amendments that wish to give greater financial and logistical support to this particular fight. I will ask for a vote and a statement on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76823	5. It's an amendment to the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76824	The amendment is not accepted. The Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities is a central body for the collection and publication of hate crimes data, as well as an authorised body for cooperation with the European Security and Cooperation Organisation, as well as other international organisations related to hate crimes. In addition to the Office's competence is to coordinate the task force on hate crime, and to implement measures and strategic documents relating to hate crimes, the Office has planned sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76825	Here's an indication. My colleagues, Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76826	Thank you, Mr. President. One second... So recently, the Government of the Republic of Austria specifically ordered the Federal Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Austria to examine any possibilities that would prohibit the celebration of the Bleiburg massacre. The multidisciplinary group of experts established under the mandate of the Federal Ministry of Interior has reached a conclusion recommending a ban on marking the above mentioned event since it is also used to enhance fascism and fascist regimes. This is why the event is expected not to take place in 2022 but will only be possible as a religious event. That is why we propose that those funds be re-used to support the fight against hate crimes. We're staying with our amendment and we're looking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76827	Amendment No. Six reps to Sabina Vosovac again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76828	The amendment is not accepted. The Office for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities for the implementation of measures and strategic document relating to the protection and promotion of human rights, and the prevention of discrimination, has planned sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76829	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76830	Your Honor. I do not agree that these funds planned for the implementation of the National Plan for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and Discrimination of Discrimination for the period from 2021 to 2027 are sufficient because we testify that they are actually negative and even worrying trends in Croatia, in the area of protection of human rights and combating discrimination. This amendment proposes just a stronger support for the monitoring and implementation of the National Plan for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and Discrimination and I will ask for a statement of vote on my Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76831	Seven. Amendment by representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76832	The amendment is not accepted. The Office for Gender Equality is responsible for the development and monitoring of the implementation of the National Plan for Gender Equality, Forgiveness, 21st and 27th period from 22nd to 24th The Office will, as the holder of the implementation of the measures provided for in the new National Plan as well as the Law on Gender Equality, as well as the basis of the task of selling the Convention to the Council of Europe and on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. Emphasis on the promotion of knowledge and awareness of gender equality and protection against discrimination through the organisation of a number of round tables, public hearings, campaigns, research on cooperation with scientific research institutions, the printing of relevant publications and strengthening of institutional mechanisms for gender equality, and cooperation at international and national level. Sufficient resources have been allocated for the implementation of the above-mentioned programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76833	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76834	I do not accept that argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. What's this about? So, we don't have a national plan, a policy or a gender equality strategy for 7 years already. And all that time, not only was it not enough for you to make that plan, but as much as it is in your interest that it is ever produced first and then realized it shows that you are constantly reducing its resources. I also offered this amendment when you put the Rebalancing Budget to the vote, and now in next year's projections, despite the warning, you are refuting and reducing funds for the National Gender Equality Plan. At the same time, you're offering us a plan here for recovery and resilience without even mentioning gender equality. On my warning that this is inadmissible because it is a key policy of the European Union that will depend at all on giving funds to the Republic of Croatia, you change your recovery and resilience plan overnight and promote gender equality according to all the items of the plan. However, it was a beautiful and smiling European face of Croatia. In practice, the key document that you need to withdraw these same funds and in order to realise the gender policy in the Republic of Croatia you are saving on it, you are reducing funds that obviously were not enough for you even now because if they were, you would have finally written that plan. This is inadmissible. This is hypocritical of the policies you advocate in front of the EU, and in the end it will cost Croatia because you will not be able to withdraw the funds, so I will ask for that amendment votes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76835	It is now the 8th Amendment, Vice President Sabina Vosovac again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76836	The amendment is not accepted. Content similar to the previous, so with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76837	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76838	The basic strategic document of the Republic of Croatia which is adopted with the aim of removing discrimination against women and establishing real gender equality as one of the fundamental principles of democratic structure and social order in the Republic of Croatia is the National Policy for Gender Equality. National policy is based on the law by the Croatian Parliament, and on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is precisely the Office for Gender Equality that carries its production and is required to periodically submit reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the National Gender Equality Policy. However, the Republic of Croatia has broken the laws and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not adopted a key strategic document for 6 years to promote gender equality and eliminate discrimination, and this is the National Policy for Gender Equality. Therefore, my amendment is actually the opening of a new item that does not exist in the budget, which is finally the adoption after 6 years of the four-year National Gender Equality Policy regardless of what the government plans to adopt a National Plan for Gender Equality, which is a document of a lower category, and thus wants to rule out the Croatian Assembly from the adoption of a key document which is actually inadmissible. It means to break the laws of the Republic of Croatia. I ask you to think about it again, or I will ask for a statement on this amendment because it is not normal for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to violate the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament. If you do not want to adopt a national policy then first change the Law on Gender Equality, then disengage the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian Parliament and bring documents to a lower level. By then, I will insist that the MPs declare this amendment, which is financial, but more than that, is actually political because it is talking about breaking the law in the Republic of Croatia and the chance for it to make the same right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76839	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76840	The amendment is not accepted...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76841	I'm sorry. I just have to say the representative is Katica Glamuzina, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76842	Thank you, the amendment is not accepted. The Office for Associations as the professional service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its work, therefore, does not exist a strategic document or regulation which would give the office the authority and jurisdiction to finance individual associations, in particular in the field of social services. Given that there are competent sectoral authorities for this administrative area and not only one civil society organisation can be singled out in the budget as a separate activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76843	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76844	Thank you. I find it a little difficult to accept your argument given that in the term of office of Prime Minister Kosor were, the Autonomous Women's House was a beneficiary of the Croatian State budget. They were removed from the budget by Prime Minister Milanovic's government. I was hoping that this government would be better than him in that regard, obviously you refuse. For more than 30 years, the Autonomous Women's House has been committed to helping other women and children who have suffered violence. Their counselling place very often means the difference between life and death, and that's not an exaggeration when I say it. Experts who work there rather than fully devote their time to helping victims of violence must now sit for years and seek different competitions and sponsorships that could finance the continuation of their work. The shelter run by the Autonomous Women's House is only in the Republic of Croatia with a code of secrecy, which means it's the only place where victims of violence can really escape from their attackers, their bullies. Instead of helping them because it's our social obligation, instead of helping them in any way or financially, we are now refusing to do so. I mean, that's unacceptable, and one HDZ government showed us before it was possible. I urge you to consider if my amendment is not well written enough to find a better way to include it in the budget. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76845	The 10th Amendment of Representative Sanja Udovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76846	The amendment is not accepted, the Association Office has planned sufficient resources related to the promotion, rental of space, intellectual services, printing, representation of the National Plan for the creation of an incentive environment and the development of civil society. Also, the position planned to reduce the same office's funds is planned under the Anti-Corruption Strategy '21. By the '30s. Year and Action Plan '22. - '24. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76847	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76848	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, this argument cannot be accepted, given that you have actually reduced your National Corruption Prevention Plan to the extent that expenditure relates to education. The amount of 16500 kuna actually tells us how serious you are about curbing corruption. In fact, the very thesis that companies owned by the Republic of Croatia are being educated here tells us enough how serious you have been thinking and how much this government wants to take action to prevent corruption. In fact, leave open opportunities for companies owned by the Republic of Croatia to be in a position to grant sponsorship enough to give these same societies enough power to be just one deposit in the continuation of corruption of this company. Namely, there is an Association Office, exactly, the Office of Associations has already made a number of educations to fund associations or civil society sectors, have passed this education and regional self-government and local self-government, and it is sufficient for the Office of Associations to be the one to grant sponsorships according to publicly-known indicators or under the available conditions and under the supervision of the State Audit. This is inadmissible to me, and I will therefore request a statement on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76849	Okay. Before moving to the 11th amendment, MP Bernardic is looking for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76850	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. What you have now rejected as government representatives Sanji Udovic and some other MPs, which is the fight against corruption, shows that this government in the 2022 budget has not secured a drop in the fight against corruption. It's a shame, it's inadmissible. And today's session of the Parliament is unfortunately one big farce, one that best testifies that there has been virtually no HDZ agent here so far. Why? Because they will come to the budget vote Wednesday, raise their hands for the budget. Because this Parliament has turned exclusively into a crane hand for the ruling majority. This is how it works and works in the Croatian Parliament, which you have shown just in time so far no single amendment from the opposition will be accepted. So it's a game that doesn't accept amendments that want to fix the budget and want to improve people's lives in their local environments. Why is that? Because it is unfortunately the Croatian Parliament's policy of this government that tries to marginalise, humiliate, push aside that the Croatian Parliament, which is the cornerstone of Croatian statehood, would absolutely decide nothing. And what is the budget for 2022 might best say that while the whole world, while the whole of Europe is preparing to face the crisis, while inflation is growing, while the new strain of the virus is expanding, you are reducing by 4 billion budgets for health care, and we know what debt health is in. You're cutting three billion budgets for work, social and pension. You're eliminating the full support of the economy. It's embarrassing, it's inadmissible, and this is all one big farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76851	Good fellow Bernardic. I don't know how you know all the amendments won't be accepted. You often misjudged, so be careful until it's over. We're not going to take a break. 293b. We're moving on. Now it's our vice president Sabina Vosovac again. Here's an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76852	That amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76853	Stjepan Curaj, sorry he came after Zrinasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76854	You got it. The above amendment is not accepted with reasons for measures to combat poverty, and social exclusions are planned through new EU projects and under the new S+ financial scheme.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76855	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76856	Thank you very much. It is a pity, Mr. Secretary of State, that you do not accept the opening of a new sentence which would ensure that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has actually been closely monitored for the implementation of the National Plan against Poverty and Social Exclusion for the period from 2021 to 2027 so much as the State Audit has established and has reported to the Croatian Parliament that the previous National Strategy for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, which has been in force since 2014 to 2020, has not met almost half of the two measures and objectives set. I expected so much from you that you would support stronger control of the implementation of the fight against poverty because at this point in the Republic of Croatia, 700,000 people are in poverty, and 900,000 people live on the edge of poverty. According to an independent Croatian trade union survey in Croatia, 25.2% of people are at risk of poverty. The average household of regular income can only cover necessary expenditure. 5.1% are employees, but are poor and forced to live off borrowing. In June 2021 alone, the credit responsibility of Croatian citizens is at EUR 138.9 billion. If we add this galloping inflation and the way energy prices rise, but also food will primarily reflect on those living in poverty or at risk of poverty, it is not clear to me that your social insensitivity and absolute any connection to the reality and time in which we live. And therefore I will ask the Croatian Parliament to declare this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76857	Re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76858	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, therefore, accepting the fact that I will probably get a warning I must warn you that you have told me about the amendment. So, I know very well what I said. The government hasn't accepted any amendments, she's accepted nine. These rare ones she has accepted are probably from the committees of the parliamentary and the circles of the ruling majority. But if you're already giving me a warning about this, be fair and give yourself a warning because you yourself have commented on me, that is, my exposure and thus directly violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76859	Comrade Bernardic, please! So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. The second time you've abused this institute for no reason at all, I don't understand what you want and you get a warning. Let's move on. 12 amendments, MP Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76860	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76861	Thank you. Now the Ministry of Finance, therefore amendments related to the Ministry of Finance, and the first is the 13th Amendments Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76862	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, in accordance with Article 4. Budget law shall be adopted and implemented in accordance with the principles of unity and accuracy of one year's budget, balance of the accounting unit, universality of the specification, sound financial management and transparency. Since the principle of transparency is legally defined as one of the basic principles according to which the budget is adopted and implemented within the framework of the insured assets within the division of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76863	Here's an indication. My colleague Ahmetovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76864	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. It's a rotten old woman's day to go by! Budget transparency is the best prevention measure against corruption. One who does not steal public money is not afraid to introduce full budget transparency. HDZ and satellites promised to introduce full transparency of the State budget before the 2020 elections on the big jumbo poster of Mr. Gordan Jandroković and Mr. Dario Hrebak, therefore, promised none of it. They tried to trick themselves into introducing transparency and through a proposal to amend the Local Self-Government Units Act, but of course you didn't. You tried then to trick that transparency will be introduced by the Budget Law, the proposal is under discussion this week, but on the transparency of spending of public funds and so on. I'd say ha ha. In order to introduce transparency of spending on state budget funds, there is no need for law. All it takes is political will. If we had full transparency of the state budget, Gabriela Žalac would certainly not have overpaid her friend's software for 10 million kunas because 4 million citizens would immediately see that account and, of course, DORH and USKOK would have seen that account so they wouldn't have been able to extract if they didn't know. That's why the SDP Club wants you to introduce transparency of public money spending from the state budget and all ministries and of course, we want to talk about this amendment and vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76865	Amendment 14, MP Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76866	The amendment is not accepted. So project system... i.e. in positions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The finance ministry has planned the expenditure necessary for the successful implementation of the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They include expenditure on contracted services for the modernisation of computer bases, expenditures, intellectual and personal services and other services. Therefore, the funds planned for the project of the public debt system were planned rationally in line with the needs of work, estimated costs and available financial resources. In addition, as regards the second paragraph, the guarantee reserves are planned according to projected needs and cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76867	Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76868	Thank you, Your Honor. ... Public debt management is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia and given the high level of debt to future demographic trends that have a negative impact on fiscal incomes and economic structure, I believe that the proposed amount is too small and insufficient for a significant step in public debt management. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Additional resources should be directed towards technical equipment and professional training of personnel actively participating in the management of the public debt of the Ministry of Finance and therefore requesting a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76869	We're going to the 15th Amendment, SDP Representatives' Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76870	The amendment is not accepted. So the resources planned in the State Budget proposal are sufficient to expect a merger function in 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76871	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76872	Thank you. So when I see actually what kind of article came from the Ministry of Administration and Justice, and the article tells you this, that's what I'm saying, level 1 and maybe grade 1 of the high but very bad questionnaire, not even for the seminar work, so that goes like this, give a maximum of 5 types of work from your unit's cleavage that you consider to be the most important citizens in your unit's field. Wow. Let's move on. If there are certain tasks in the unit section which are not able to carry out within their administrative bodies for the reasons of lack of certain units’ capacities, financial, administrative or other capacities, this is as a second question. Now, if it does, what are those jobs? And do you think doing these jobs together with other units would be useful and could increase the quality of doing these jobs and meet the needs of your citizens. Let's move on, third question. Of course, if you answer yes. Is there any intention that some of the jobs in your unit's section can be done with one or more other local self-government units, yes or no. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Now comes the trash question, have you ever had any contact with other units involved in doing business together? If so, anyone. Fourth question, is there already some business being done from your unit's area along with other units? If so, what are the jobs? Now watch out, for those 100 million kunas, you send this to municipalities and cities at kindergarten level. Not to ask for a vote, but we're giving up the amendment because you won't spend that 100 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76873	What does that mean you're giving up? None of that, then. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Yeah, yeah. [[So I was clear?]] All right, it's just a technical question, not content. [[You won't spend 100 when I saw this.]] We are going to the 16th Amendment, MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Marina Opačak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76874	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government funds for fiscal balancing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government since '21. Mr. Security in the state budget. ... 025 Ministry of Finance for Požega-Slavon County in '22. In the year, funds are planned to help with the amount of 10.3 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not necessary to provide additional resources in that position. It is also not possible to reduce the proposed reduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76875	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76876	Thank you very much. My fellow Secretary of State, I can't agree with the explanation. Namely, this amendment and the series of amendments that will follow now refers to only one item that is very purposeful, which is the fight against mosquitoes and I know when I speak in this House about it, it is a lot of funny, but you know it very well that you come from Osijek and Slavonia and all those who meet with it that it is a very big problem for people living in this area in the summer months. So it's not just a problem, it's not just an inconvenience, it's actually becoming an obstacle to normal life, not even during the evening, but throughout the day. Therefore, the 5 million kuna budget for Požega-Slavon County would be some minimum amount to be used to treat or address this problem, thus moreover, according to the applicable law to combat this problem, or to deal with the same provision of units of local self-government, or cities and municipalities that most often have neither fiscal nor any different capacity to deal with this effectively. If we transfer this burden to regional self-government, or county, then it makes more sense because mosquitoes don't know where the border of a municipality is, where the municipality of Bilje ends, and the municipality of Osijek begins, so that theoretically one municipality can spend millions and millions or cities, and there will be no results. Only a comprehensive approach, only to help by the state because it is important means we can try to contain this problem of course with recommendations of the profession, with all relevant studies to be made. Therefore, that amount is not so small. Five million on the other hand can easily be taken away for the services the government is planning, which have seen a significant increase I would dare say since last year, so I ask that this Parliament be declared on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76877	The 17th Amendment re-legates Domagoj Hajdukovic and Marina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76878	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation, with that it should be noted only for Brod-Posavina County are secured in the budget of 22 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76879	Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76880	Thank you very much. So, again, we don't accept the argument. It is a similar amendment, i.e. identical, which only applies to another county. I've already explained the problem, so I wouldn't be re-entering the controversy again, I'd just ask for the Parliament to be manifested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76881	18th Amendment of the same MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76882	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation, noting that the planned amounts are for Vukovar-Srijem County in the following year 28.9 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76883	Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76884	Thank you very much. Since it is an amendment to the same content only for another county, I will not explain it but only ask for a statement from Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76885	The 19th Amendment is again represented by Domagoj Hajdukovic but with counterpart Romano Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76886	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation, noting that funds for 18.8 million kuna are planned for Osijek-Baranja County in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76887	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76888	I can't accept this argument. I especially have to apostrophe here is about Osijek-Baranja County, the county from which I come, the county in whose area is the Park of Nature Kopački rit which is one of the largest reserves of swamps, in fact the only such preserved in Europe. And because of this and because of the inability to intervene more invasively in the area of the Park of Nature Osijek, the city of Osijek, which is the fourth largest city in the Republic of Croatia, we still do not know what the census will show. But the surrounding municipalities, especially those of Baranja, on the Baranja side, have a very big problem with this monster. As I said, mosquitoes don't recognize the boundaries of local self-government units because the city of Osijek can invest millions and millions in solving this problem. But your mosquitoes literally fly on the other side of the Drava, and it's like you didn't do anything, like you threw all your money away. By accessing the county level of money from the county level that would make it possible, and I think that we would achieve greater results, especially because it's a problem as I said, so not something that makes life more difficult or more uncomfortable, but really something that makes life in the summer months impossible. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76889	20th Amendment of the same MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76890	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation. I would only supplement that the government has almost every year provided precisely funds to fight mosquitoes in particular in the previous county, and 13.2 million kuna is also provided for the Virovitica-Podravska County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76891	Here's your reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76892	So, the amendment is the same as the mosquito treatment and mosquito-related problems. They refer to Virovitica-Podravska County. I've already explained the reasons why I asked for it and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76893	Now we're going to make amendments to the Department of Defense. With us is Secretary of State Branko Hrg, welcome. We're going to the 21st Amendment Club of Representatives of the Centre and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76894	The amendment is not accepted. The activities of A545072 spiritual care are planned for the spiritual care of the employees of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia under the Treaty between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia on the custody of Catholic believers, members of the Armed Forces and the regular service of the Republic of Croatia confirmed in the Croatian Parliament of the Law. As a result of the above, the funds cannot be reduced in this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76895	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76896	Dearlywed, we have proposed this amendment to increase the value of activities for the development of cyber capability, since we live in the 21st century and today there is modern warfare, modern defenses are largely being fought in this virtual or cyber world. The consequences of this war are certainly not virtual but real, they can be the most serious threat to national security. And we have therefore proposed, we believe that it is necessary to increase investment in the development of cyber staff capacity within the Ministry of Defence. Here's if you don't think it's necessary here's why we're asking you to take this amendment vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76897	22nd Amendment to the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76898	The amendment is not accepted. The K545045 project is implemented to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, including airspace surveillance and protection. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to grant consent to the Ministry of Defence to take on the burdens of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the period 2022-2026 for the purchase of a multi-purpose combat aircraft and, as a result of this project, cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76899	Here's a statement from my colleague Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76900	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Because of this argument, we are asking for a vote and a statement on this amendment from a simple fact that threatens national security by cyber attacks must be one of the biggest and most real threats to the entire system of national security today. These attacks are happening almost daily, and that is why we propose that the MORH be strengthened precisely in this segment of the defence of national security, and we keep repeating it. In addition to this development cyber security certainly has great potential for further development of domestic it industry and it sector, while most other investments involve equipment, buying military equipment aimed at imports. And that is why we propose to significantly raise investments precisely in strengthening cyber security in terms of strengthening full national security and asking for a statement on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76901	23rd Amendment to the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76902	The amendment is not accepted. In 2019, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Decision on granting consent to the Ministry of Defence to take on the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the period 2021-2026 for the equipment of the Croatian Army by helicopters. As a result of the above, the resources in this project cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76903	Here you go, Comrade Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76904	Thank you. So we can't accept that explanation and we're asking for a vote on the amendment because I would say it also embarrassingly, and it's amazing that the Republic of Croatia still doesn't have an emergency medical helicopter service, but it's all done with improvised military helicopters. In a country with more than 1,000 islands where emergency helicopter service is necessary, it is proved from day to day that it is inconclusive not to have such an item in the budget since these helicopters should be specialized emergency helicopters, not improvised, customized helicopters that are from forces, from military forces. We believe that the establishment of a fleet of emergency medical aid is important and important in order for these current helicopters to return to what they are intended to be, and that is the purpose of the defense. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76905	24th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76906	The amendment is not accepted. In the 2504 programme, equipment, modernisation and construction are planned for the activities of equipment and technical equipment, supply, material resources, construction, reconstruction, adaptation of infrastructure facilities as well as for equipment projects for fighting armored vehicles, multi-purpose combat aircraft, system integration, anti-aircraft of the Republic of Croatia in NATO and... the system and anti-aircraft and pro-tourque defenses, the equipment of a long-range artillery system and the equipment of a multi-purpose helicopter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This amendment is not to be adopted because of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76907	Here's a statement from my colleague Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76908	Thank you. The increase in this item for the purchase of drones is why we are looking for the reason that in modern warfare, drones are one of the essential factors of war, surprise and defence, given that the Croatian military has some unmanned aircraft, we believe that we should invest far more in the acquisition of the most modern, in training people for this given both the natural location and the geographical position of the Republic, and by the fact that we are the EU border, I believe that the increase in the supply of state-of-the-art drones is a good investment because these are the resources that, with the lowest rate, can provide the most control, but even some impact force that is needed. It would also be necessary to develop a drone of our own, as some armies in the world do, but unfortunately, we have no hearing, nor do we have the means to obtain more modern, better and more. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76909	We now move on to amendments related to the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. State Secretary Stephen Curaj is coming back again. 25th Amendment of Representative Marijan Pavliček, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76910	The amendment is not accepted. So, with the explanation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been providing systematic support to strategic projects of the Croatian national minority since 2018, which is an effective support and an important incentive to further strengthen the ethnic, cultural and linguistic self-awareness of Croatian minority communities and to strengthen the position of the Croatian minority itself as an active factor in the domicile states. This is done through the Central State Office and I strongly support all projects of the Croatian National Minority. By the way, the Programme of Support for Strategic Projects of the Croatian National Minority abroad has been increased by 100% by this draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76911	Since there are no colleagues, we will vote on this amendment. 26th Amendment MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76912	The amendment is not accepted. It should be pointed out that the 15th session of the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee on the Protection of National Minorities between the Republic of Hungary took place in Zagreb on 12 December 2019, confirmed the principle that the realisation of large minority projects implemented in Hungary was funded by the Hungarian party and the Croatian side in the Republic of Croatia. So we also consider it necessary to note that a large number of significant projects have been achieved in both the Republic and Hungary in the past four years, and for this year, as I have mentioned earlier, there is an increase in funding by 100% in those positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76913	Just a second for my colleague, Lenart, please. Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76914	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, this is an amendment I endure year after year. It's not about realising a capital project, it's not about building a building. That theater already exists. It's about something else. It's about symbolic support for something that's really good. Croatia, of course, is also bound by international agreements and the fact that many Croats live in BiH. It also helps the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar year after year. I don't see why they wouldn't do that to the only national theatre outside the Croatian speech area. Only Croatian National Theatre outside the Croatian speech area fully funded by the Hungarian government. Isn't that embarrassing for us if we keep to ourselves, especially if we consider the fact that the Croatian minority in Hungary is one of the most organized and appreciated communities in the world. Therefore, this is about one more symbolic amount that would help in the work, so setting up certain plays and others, rather than the realisation of capital projects. I know that both the Hungarian government and the Croatian government have implemented a lot of capital projects on our part and some are in realisation when we talk about the protection of our minorities, but I say, this is not about this, this is more of a symbolic endeavor, a symbolic endeavor that I have to say that I am saddened by what is being rejected year by year. If we can't take at least one year, and I've been putting up with the amendments to this budget for a long time, if we can't show for at least one year that we care, that we appreciate the work of those, generally, enthusiasts, and not employees who have succeeded in a very different language and cultural environment to keep and cherish their language, then that says a lot more about us than it does about them. Thank you very much, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76915	We now move to the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care and Amendments related to the work of the Office. With us is Secretary of State Gordan Hanzek, please welcome State Secretary, 27th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76916	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor. Amendment 27 is accepted in part. The existing activity of housing management of victims of domestic violence is increasing to 5 million kuna. The difference in the amount of 4 375 000 kuna will be allocated at positions 322 amounting to a million kuna and 323 with a total of 3 375 000 kuna. The increase in funds will be redistributed within the financial plan of the Central State Office for Housing Management and from the housing position, the position of 4211 residential buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76917	Here's a statement from my colleague Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76918	Well, we thank you that at least one of our amendments has been accepted and entered into that fantastic 9-amendments quota that have been accepted for now by the government, I don't know how many hundreds of amendments have been submitted. We consider, of course, an important fight against domestic violence, and that is why we think it is good that this amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76919	So you accept it in a changed form? Thank you. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Yeah, yeah, you were close to clarity, but I wanted to confirm [[I'm sorry, I wasn't clear.]] Okay. [[I'll be in the srid from now on.]] 28th Amendment, same club of MPs, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76920	The amendment is not accepted. For the implementation of the energy poverty prevention programme including the use of renewable energy sources in residential buildings in assisted areas and areas of special state care for the period until 2025, a total of 150 million kuna from the resources of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan has been provided. The rest of the funding for the overall implementation of the programme during the implementation period has also been provided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and by specific sources of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76921	Here's a statement from my colleague Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76922	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, we don't accept an explanation. We will, of course, ask to vote on this amendment because we believe that the suppression of energy poverty, especially in the circumstances of energy prices growth, but also in ensuring the basic existential needs of residents, is one of the priorities of both this and the work of the Government, and of course, of the State budget. Energy poverty in the Republic of Croatia is extremely present and therefore no amount in that sense that you have spoken in your explanation of the rejection of the amendment is satisfactory. So, I need to increase this item in order to ensure assistance in implementation, I'm very glad you're listening to me, Mr. Secretary of State, but I will continue, in the implementation, you've also turned your back on me, thank you very much. implementing the energy recovery of apartments and buildings of those households at the highest risk of energy poverty. [[No, I'm sorry.]] By the proposed amount of 30 million kuna, of course, it is not possible to have a more significant impact on the reduction of energy poverty, the amount that you have mentioned in this explanation, we also believe that it is not enough, which is why we remain with this amendment because we believe that energy poverty is one of the important topics of this country and is not sufficiently represented in the Croatian budget. Thank you. And thank you for paying attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76923	It wasn't a colleague of Hanzek, a colleague of Hanzek just consulted on something, it wasn't any underestimation of the MP. Here you go, 29th Amendment, Center and Voice Representatives' Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76924	Thank you very much. First, accept an apology because there was a wrong number of copying amendments, not to read the wrong number of amendments. So Amendment No. 29, Center and Voice Representatives Club. The amendment is not accepted. So this is in line with the previous explanation of Amendment 27. The draft budget and projections for this budgetary activity have been drawn up on the basis of the implementation so far, i.e. the implementation of this financial item of the plan of the office and given the dynamics so far, with the proposed adoption of the amendment, no additional resources will be necessary for the implementation of the activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76925	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76926	So, Your Honor, this amendment proposed that we increase the value of living care activities for victims of domestic violence from 625 thousand kuna per million kuna, and for this we proposed reducing the activity and administration of the tax administration. We certainly think it is necessary to increase the capacity and number of safe shelters for women and victims of sexual and any other violence. We had a recent and brutal case of brutal murder in Split, as well as our activities here and here in the Parliament, and we paid tribute recently to the day, the International Day of Combating Violence against Women Honored all victims of violence, pointed out that every 15 minutes in Croatia, a woman of violence was killed and we really think it is necessary to increase the value of this activity. Here, we ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76927	30th Amendment, MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76928	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal for a Budget and projection for this budgetary activity has been drawn up on the basis of the implementation of this item of the office's financial plan so far. Since the entry into force of the Housing Act in assisted areas and areas of special state care, a total of 44 solutions on the right to housing of victims of domestic violence have been adopted. 10 solutions...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76929	Excuse me, one second. So it's about social care, education, housing management of victims of domestic violence, is that it? [[I apologize, but you obviously have the wrong amendments or something you're reading.]] Yeah. Amendment 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76930	Amendment 30. That, I apologize, is also this increase from Amendment 27 that we have partially accepted where from the Green-Left Blocks Club is increasing from 625 thousand to 5 million kuna. So that's a whole set of amendments that are related to the same item, and that's why we think that, by partly adopting Amendment 27, they are then consumed with amendments 29 and 20 and 30. In Amendment 29, the Centre and the Voice have proposed an increase by one million kuna, and you are, ma'am. Peovic suggested an increase of 300 thousand kuna. Since this is increasing by 4 375 thousand kuna for victims of violence, we believe that this is the reason for not accepting the amendment. Not that the amendment is not accepted but that three amendments of the same... Yeah, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76931	It was accepted on 27th and [[Intruder: 27 accepted, but since the amendments are identical.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76932	I just wanted to have an explanation. Because if you don't accept it, then you should. [[All clear, we have to, so I apologize, ma'am. Raukar.]] [[Intruder: Coordinated because it was the same thing, and Amendment 28 entered into that set of amendments, and...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76933	You will, you will, you will show Here's a statement from my colleague, Peovic. [[Intruder: And energy poverty, believe me, will be more.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76934	Well, it's all clear. First of all, I thank you for increasing that amount and I would still like to give an explanation, so a few here and clubs and MPs and MPs have proposed this increase. The gift horse is not seen in the teeth, but I would warn, so last year I proposed the same amendment and I don't understand why it wasn't accepted. So after this really dramatic case in Split somehow the public got on their feet and it seems to me that it had an impact on you, and hopefully, the initiative of the MPs who warned you about it, but the thing has been so dramatic for years and it's not clear why this amendment didn't take place last year, it might have prevented some future situation because the amount means, even now that you've put 625 thousand kunas entirely here and it's been warning you really female associations for years, completely insufficient to really spend serious care of victims of domestic violence. So, I thank you, but the question is why it couldn't be done before, especially since, given that 2 billion kuna is now more in the budget for these military planes, which we didn't have last year, and that yoke will be paid every year from now on, and last year it still wasn't there. So much so, I don't know why it couldn't have been accepted last year. Of course, I thank you once again for accepting this and should not vote accordingly on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76935	We're going to the 31st Amendment of Representative Zeljko Lenart. ... Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 20, 30, you want 29, maybe, I didn't ask my colleague Puljak? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. It's the 29th and 30th amendments. Now it's 31st, Zeljko Lenart.v
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76936	Yeah. Amendment 31 speaks of the same activity. It's an amendment, asking for an increase of 10 million kuna. The amendment is not accepted for the above reasons, an increase of 4, accepting an increase in 44,375 thousand kuna activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76937	Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76938	Here, thank you. It means it's for '21. It was $350,000, and it was '22. Six hundred and twenty-five thousand, which is a ridiculous figure in this matter of providing victims of domestic violence, I've been looking here for 10 million in terms of real estate prices and the state of the real estate market and everything that he's collecting from us. We think that 10 million is also insufficient since, we only remember victims of violence when someone gets killed. With this we would send a clear message that society protects women, children, but unlike all my colleagues, I will stress, but also men from domestic violence, their unfortunately chosen partners or their families and 10 million kunas would significantly help and trigger this care, and it would probably result in much less victims of violence, and I believe that compared to everything we spend on, 10 million kuna is insignificant money for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76939	Pull back, too? [[Intruder: He can pull.]] Okay, thank you. Let's go to the 32nd Amendment, Representative Sabina Vosovac again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76940	The amendment is also not accepted for the sake of earlier reasons where, in part, the adoption of amendments 27 to this activity is harmonised within the adoption of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76941	Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76942	Thank you very much. What I would like to say is that in one hand I am pleased that the initiative is also a representative in HS who for more than a year since she organized it points to key problems faced by women in Croatia only because of the fact that women and you have managed to hear that voice, but also the fact that in the pandemic violence against women, i.e. domestic violence, whose victims are maliced by women, literally exploded. I am pleased that by accepting this amendment to the Green-Left bloc, you have actually denied us the need to insist on voting both the Workers' Front and the Centre and GLAS Club and my fellow Leonard and me insist, so we will not insist on voting, however, I want to take advantage of the opportunity and point out that this adoption of one amendment to one opposition option will not result in you ignoring the fact that even in other budget lines, we need to allocate more significant resources to address this problem. When we talk about women and their accommodations in shelters because this housing is actually the care of women on the way out of the shelter that are waved with children, financially insecure, that you will also apply through some amendments and the fact that we need education to prevent domestic violence, as well as support through the Ministry of Justice, victims of violence, so that it will be a round story, not only because we are prescribed by the Istanbul Convention but because as a society we have become aware of this problem that violence in families and violence against women is not only a question of women's rights but it is a violation of fundamental human rights. So I'm withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76943	Thank you. Let's go, you're free, Secretary of State, thank you. We now move to amendments related to the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society, with us is Secretary of State Bernard Gršić, please. We are going to the 33rd Amendment, representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76944	Thank you, well-respected MPs and MPs. Your Honor. Amendment No. 33 is not accepted for the reason that the planned activities will not be implemented through the ESI Funds, as originally planned, but will be implemented through the recovery and resilience mechanism under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76945	Here's a statement from my colleague Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76946	I do not accept the explanation and I will ask that this amendment be voted on because I am not sure exactly how this will be implemented through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. We are aware that the question of how much funds we will really withdraw, and exactly digitisation is one of the key EU policies and what you have written here, that to raise the digital competences of the population by implementing e-Education, you will single out 0 kunas in the 2022 plan. It is unacceptable to me, so I asked that the amount be increased to 5 million kunas with a simple explanation. It is these digital competences, i.e. the digital descripting of our population that are the key skills for the 21st century that are necessary for survival, and most of all for the achievement and pursuit of basic activities in these pandemic conditions. Therefore, at all levels, regardless of the Recovery and Resistance Plan, because I must note, it is conditional on how much funds we will eventually withdraw from it, knowing what happened to us and earlier withdrawals of funds within the EU, and what has now happened to us with key institutions that are even involved in controlling the way we spend money from EU funds. So we want a more digitally written and educated population, at least us in opposition. I'm not sure how much the governing structure really fits, so maybe that's one of the reasons why this item in the budget for next year came across all 0 kunas. So, I'm going to ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76947	Here you go, Amendment 34, MP Selak Rasdic again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76948	Amendment No. 34 is not accepted for the same reason as before, since it will not be financed from the ESI Funds in the previous period but is planned to be implemented through the recovery and resilience mechanism under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76949	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76950	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. So in this amendment, other than digital literacy, I ask that funds be increased for media literacy as well. We are aware that at this time growing phenomena of information, including disinformation in the digital age, different content coming from different platforms is necessary media descriptions of people in order to develop one awareness of how important it is to have and interpret information that comes from credible sources. Just in order to survive this pandemic, but in the future, we can find ourselves in the flood of information, what is often referred to as false news or fake news, we need to describe in this digital sense our people, or to allocate additional funds to strengthen platforms and education of what is good and quality and verified content, unlike one that does not pass any checks, but at the same time to point to manipulations of various media mechanisms that, in the name of those who have primate over facts, use the same systems to politically abuse platforms and actually be ministers of truth. So with the obvious occurrence of misinformation and false news that is present, there is also the appearance of false informers who in the name of truth censor many well-founded articles. Just in order to find out in that forest of information and misinformation, we need to work on strengthening media digital literacy, so I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76951	The 35th Amendment, the same representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76952	Amendment No 35 is not accepted since there is no need to increase funds on the e-standard implementation project and further improve the electronic service system. This funding activity is set out in the EU project agreed on in the grant allocation in which the elements of the project are contained in both the content and the costs defined and signed under the current contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76953	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76954	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Namely, here I asked him to return, not to increase that he would only return the previous amount for the item implementation of e-standards and further improvement of the electronic service system. Of course, like the previous amendments, this amendment aims to allow access to the latest services and that quality access to all Croatian citizens. I would like to remind you that we had the opportunity to collect a census in the previous period to see how badly we have a modern signature collection system, the one that relies on digital technology, so I think these are items where we can't save and if we can't already allocate additional funds in the budget, then at least we have to leave the funds that we previously allocated. If we haven't been able to do without the fall of the system, we will then be able to go towards those more complex tasks that await us in the future, and no matter how much you object to it, what we, who love democracy, have long called for, and this is also an electronic vote and a declaration of referendums and all other advantages of this digital era that have not yet been implemented in Croatia. Ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76955	Let's move on. Thank you, colleague Grsic. Come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76956	Mr. President, while the secretary of state is still present, if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76957	What form again?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76958	It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so in a number of items of the State Digital Office, etc., we have been declared contrary to the Budget Act. even though they met all the legal conditions they needed. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] I suppose it's about the items from which it can't be taken off, but in that case, I pray that the future budget goes immediately to the government's proposal to indicate the items from which it can't be removed, so that there's no amendment like playing Main Sweeper that we resist and that we don't know where we're allowed or where we can't eat. That's my humble request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76959	Okay, I agree with that remark. So for the second time in order to avoid these situations, I'm going to ask the government's representatives to suggest that they clearly indicate the items. Now, at this point, I can't tell you 100% of the answer. Let's move on now, thank the Secretary of State, so I call again Secretary of State Stephen Curaj, and we are now continuing with the amendments to the Central State Office for Demography and Youth. 36th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76960	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs and MPs are therefore not accepted. In fact, the planned funds are sufficient to implement the planned measures primarily given the fact of the funds spent in '21, so not all the funds are spent for this year so that we do not consider it to be a meaningful increase from what was proposed. It is also not possible to reduce the proposed position of this amendment as regards the reduction of certain positions for the finding of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76961	Here you go, Mr. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76962	Here's the respect, so with this amendment, we've foreseen an increase in funding for support activities for programmes and programmes aimed at young people from 3 million to 3 million 127 thousand to 5 million kuna. Given that youth demographics are very often pointed out whether as a priority of the Republic of Croatia we are aware here and after this census of how much we will lose the population, especially here and after 2 years of the crown crisis from turning priorities it is important that the state helps young people through various programs that can be of interest and benefit. Here's the fact that you said that this programme last year hasn't spent all the resources actually worrying and talking about what the priorities of this country are. This is why we have proposed an increase in the amount in this item to in some way encourage new programmes, new plans in this direction, and we are asking for this amendment of vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76963	37th Amendment MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76964	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted, practically as next with the same explanation that the planned funds are sufficient to achieve the measures and that they are not, the fact that they are not all spent this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76965	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76966	Thank you very much. Well, I can't agree with the explanation. So, we often talk exactly in this home about demographics, we talk about young people, we talk about how young people need to be kept in Croatia,.../incomprehensible/... we'll have a list of whose results we expect to show how successful we are in this, but I don't have to wait and wait to assess how successful we aren't. So, an increase of 4 and a half million to 6 and a half million kunas of this item I don't think is irrelevant or unrealistic, but I think it's very real and it's very modest as it should be, and young people are a particularly sensitive group in a society that I'm sure you'll all agree deserves special attention and protection. Quality policy for young people is a prerequisite for full inclusion and implementation of young people especially in terms of education, vocational training, work, recreation and healthy life. In light of the fact that we care about the position of young people in society, that their voice is heard as well as that they themselves participate in the design of policies and relations towards their population and that they achieve quality in society, which is a prerequisite then to believe and remain in Croatia that it is important in the position of youth policy in the budget that we provide sufficient resources especially in the context of keeping young people in Croatia. So, as I said and since I wasn't in my grade, I was modest and unrealistic about this item, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76967	The 38th Amendment of Representative Sabina Vosovac, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76968	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted, it is the same position with the same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76969	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76970	Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is unacceptable for me that you do not accept this amendment, first of all because by accepting this amendment we would send a strong message to the government of the Republic of Croatia to young people. Unfortunately, the message we now have is that Croatia since 2017. No national policy for young people has simply not been adopted, it does not care. Secondly, even though we are signatories of the European Youth Work Agenda and we were obliged to list priorities for working with young people within a year, we have not done so for more than a year. The fact equally, although the law establishes an obligation for young people's advice to be established in units of local and regional self-government as advisory bodies of local and regional self-government leaders and to involve them in policymaking precisely those intended for young people, the number of youth councils is reduced. The same fact when we got access to the eu funds means when your colleague Marko Pavić was a resolute minister that 28 million kunas intended for youth programmes actually were deposited there because you haven't been able to call a tender for two and a half years. The only thing we have from this government is a promise of passing a new Law on the advice of young people who are simply technical. I am very sorry that you do not understand why young people leave Croatia because no one communicates with them, because they have the impression that no one cares about them and that they are not involved in certain decision-making processes that concern them. I'm sorry you didn't accept this amendment, but I will also insist that the amendment is manifested to the HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76971	Amendment No. 39 again, same MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76972	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted, the planned funds are sufficient to implement the planned measures taking into account the fact that the funds spent in the '21s are also planned to reduce the proposed position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76973	Here's an obvious colleague of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76974	Now this is very interesting, my amendment requires that funds to implement measures of family and population policy increase from about 5.5 million to 8.3 million, which was the level you planned in 2021. so it's simply unclear to me, if HDZ and partners are one of the key pillars of programming principles in both this and the previous elections were just family and populational, but I also understand that when the state is not doing well, when it has to be cut on certain items that they are suffering in some way proportionately all. But it is not clear to me that at a time when we boast with a never-better budget, with economic growth, with GDP growth, with our better credit rating, with significant resources and billions at our disposal at the coming period, and next year for various projects and programmes, I do not understand when in all the almost positions of all the ministry users, the funds increase significantly that you have decided to save, cut and deviate from the standards achieved so far, precisely in these policies concerning the implementation of family and population policy measures. I'm not asking you for anything more than if you're not already able to give more to at least keep that standard you planned, which you yourself planned for 2021. You don't break it, and unfortunately you don't agree to it, and you refuse to. I'm sorry, and I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76975	40th Amendment of Representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76976	Thank you. The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation and note that the planned reduction of funds would prevent regular implementation of contractual commitments and regular operations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76977	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76978	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I didn't even understand your explanation very well is a little sorry, maybe you didn't deliberately understand what you meant to say that you wouldn't be able to do normal business if you approved these funds, if I understood what you were trying to say. So it's about what we're all warning about, which is that there must be money at least a minimum amount of funding for measures of family and population policy. There are a lot of challenges ahead of us, you know that one of the biggest precisely those relating to demographic policies that are the long-term key to the survival of the Republic of Croatia, precisely because they are long-term, and not just the short-term key to those from the perspective of these governments that look exclusively at their interests and one mandate falls out of sight and not enough resources are allocated. Not only do we need to encourage the most important policy, we need to allocate sufficient resources to those layers of society that are in better paid and demanding positions of those mothers who carry out difficult tasks in society have the opportunity to get the full amount of pay when they decide on maternity leave, not to be punished when they have children. It's been promised for years, and it's never been done in practice. This could have been an incentive for you, and I can challenge you since you see how you found Mayor Tomašević and the mothers who have abolished their acquired right to turn out to be heroes and meet these mothers and help them overcome this difficult period in which they will de facto be thrown out into the street because there are no places in kindergartens. So I'm going to ask you to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76979	Thank you very much. 41st Amendment MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76980	... By means of this year. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76981	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76982	Thank you very much. Well, I can't accept the explanation that she was doing that app cut-glue. So this is about an item that is not in the budget, I have proposed a new item that existed, but it is no longer there, so I expected a little more serious explanation why the point of prevention of violence against and among young people is rejected. So, many times we talked, we were now talking about how young people are an extremely sensitive group, how the group is threatened, and speaking to the medical dictionary, they say that the kuna is invested in the prevention of 4 kunas saved in recovery. Speaking from the perspective of young life, we are not just talking about money, we are talking about much more important capital, which is to grow healthy and form into a person, into productive members of a society that can also be constructive members, or contribute to that society and be happy and come true. Unfortunately, violence against young people and among young people is becoming more and more frequent, becoming more brutal, taking increasingly difficult forms and making it increasingly difficult for young people to recover. In a situation where some countries even introduce a category of bulling and abuse among young people becomes a crime, we can't separate, I would say a symbolic 5 million kuna to prevent the same, so I think it tells us again what kind of society we have, or what kind of government we have, and especially in the light of GDP growth, great economic indicators we're not investing in what's most important to us, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76983	Amendment 42, representative of Sabina Vosovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76984	Thank you. The amendment shall not be accepted with the same reasoning as before, given that it is the same item.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76985	Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76986	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, this amendment calls for 2 million kunas to increase funds intended to prevent violence against and among young people. It is clear to all of us here, or should we, in fact, be clear that prevention of, violence against and among young people is a key mechanism for developing a culture of dialogue, not violence, mutual respect, respect for everyone's human dignity and human rights. Investment in prevention today will result in a better society tomorrow or society devoid of violence today against young people, and tomorrow these same young people as adults in their families and above, others. What we can see, and now in the pandemic era, there are numerous studies. One of the parts of society most mentally affected by the pandemic, abnormal conditions of education, functioning within the family, and another in some areas of Croatia and earthquake are young people. This may seem to be a single educational problem today, but tomorrow it may become a serious public health problem. When we consider that here and this morning, members of a group of fans allegedly entered a dormitory and beat up young, young students, when we see that very often young people and children are victims of domestic violence, then I don't know what else we need as an indicator that what we really need to invest in and what's important today for us to do better tomorrow is just to prevent or prevent violence against and between young people. I'm sorry that you didn't recognize it because I didn't ask for any more funding than just for the amount of funds required to be returned to the level of the 2021 plan. Since you refuse, I will insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76987	43rd Amendment, same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76988	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, in the light of the reasons that additional resources have also been planned to implement the planned measures, in particular by looking at how you have previously said that not all or planned funds have been spent in this year, so that we do not see the implementation of the planned measures that will improve something by increasing the amount already planned and, on the other hand, the reduction of the SOA plan in that amount would jeopardise the regular functioning and performance of the Agency's tasks as regards the proposal for reduction of the item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76989	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76990	I am sorry that my proposed amendment, which I have allocated somewhere around 18 million kunas more to implement the demographic policy measures, would endanger the functioning of SOA. However, I believe that the SOA could survive without these funds, and I am afraid that Croatian society, and we will see it very quickly and according to the latest official data from the Statistical Office on the new census, I am not sure that we have more time to wait. I'll remind you only of your pre-election promise, and it concerns a few demographics among other measures that you haven't met to this day, and I don't know when you're going to if you won't now that we're doing well in our budget. As I have already said and you speak for yourself and that is a fact, it is a fact that we have considerable funds from EU funds at our disposal, to record significant economic growth, that our credit rating is good, so it's all kind of judging by your words in Croatia growing, developing, growing. However, I fear that none of this will have any young families in Croatia or those who are just about to become one. You promised in your pre-election programme to implement the parent measure for the whole of Croatia, you promised equally to de-distribute parental fees regardless of the amount of salaries that you, who receive parents regardless of whether it is a man or a woman, have not fulfilled any of this, and according to this approach to the amendments which are the backbone of your policies that you have received trust in the elections, I fear that everything will remain at the level of false promises. So I'm going to ask for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76991	Now we're going to the 44th Amendment, the voter's representative again, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76992	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76993	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76994	Thank you very much. I ask 2 million kunas more of this amendment for support for youth-oriented programmes, but the other thing I could expect from you than to hear again is that it is, in fact, as for the previous amendment when I asked for greater funds for implementing youth policy, this requires greater funding for support for youth-oriented programmes. I ask them for reasons because I simply believe that improving and improving the quality of life of young people from partnering participation in the processes of participation in decisions of informal education, free time and culture of young people, volunteering for participation in the development of civil society, information, mobility to ensure quality and regular support to the organised youth sector and its activities is a vital step in showing young people that we care about, asking them not to leave Croatia, to hear about them and their problems and to actually provide them with an environment in which they can develop all their potentials, starting with an educational system, but also in the local community, but also not only that they will feel included and useful and send them a message that Croatia may at this point seem to be a place where they will not have to go beyond their dreams. I'm sorry that you don't understand, I know that this isn't some kind of means that could change that system towards young people and their optimism, but it would be a small significant step that would indicate that now that we're doing economically, we're better off hearing about the future, and the future is just our young ones. I'm sorry, and I'm going to ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76995	45th Amendment of Representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76996	The amendment is not accepted with the reasons that we have already stated given the fact of the funds spent in '21. We believe that the planned funds are sufficient to achieve the planned measures, also with the same explanation as the proposed reduction, i.e. the source of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76997	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76998	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, what I'm asking here is that at least they return the funds as indicated in the previous budget. I've said everything crucial to demographic policy in the light of the previous amendment. And you know that the key to surviving our pension and health care system is precisely a quality demographic policy in the long run. We also have a unique opportunity to get significant funds from the EU to make a long-term turn in our policies, for the first time opening up space so that we can inhale and allocate resources that are not mere survival, but their result will only feel long-term. Unfortunately, by refusing amendments and saving in implementation of demographic policy measures, you show that this is clearly not your priority. The only reason for that can be that the effect is long-term, and hopefully you do, and you admit that you don't see yourself long-term at the head of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I cannot accept this amendment to save on demographic policy measures and I will ask it to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u76999	The 46th Amendment is the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77000	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the situation of prevention against and among young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77001	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77002	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. It is totally unacceptable that under the terms of the pandemic, funds relating to the prevention of violence among young people are reduced. I don't know if you're aware, but every third school kid is afraid to enter the school bathroom, most kids report some form of peer violence, and peer violence is growing up in quite a bit in the on-line sphere. What is particularly devastating and worrying is that peer violence is growing among girls or girls, virtualizing our reality results in an increase in various forms of extreme content that is recorded and subsequently reproduced on social networks when we talk about violence. For all of these reasons, considering how many children have been killed during this pandemic, it is one of the key things in this society to combat and to prevent violence among young people. Not only is it not enough to return the amount previously intended for that item but under the conditions of the pandemic that we still do not see the end of that amount needed and to increase. Therefore, I cannot accept your argument and will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77003	47th Amendment by Representative Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77004	The amendment is not accepted, as given the objective of the new activity proposed, we believe that it will be achieved in accordance with the measures planned and the resources achieved for them, or secured, and also as regards the proposed reduction as a source of funding, it would only point out that certain rationalisations of the costs of the state budget have already been made and already reduced by 3 million kuna that position as regards the Ministry of Agriculture itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77005	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77006	I don't accept the explanation, and I'm going to ask for an amendment to the vote. So, the Youth Centre fits into the strategic commitment of the city of Sibenik which develops a space for higher education and youth... In addition, the idea project includes the repurpose of a former military hall where social sports content would be located, which would include a concert hall, a sports gym, a workshop space and a skateboard park. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because of the different contents, the idea was to connect them to create a new urban space for everyday events through their intertwination. The project thus envisions the establishment of a common market in two interconnected facilities that clearly separates these two facilities, hall and former boiler room sports climbing halls in the future with workshops. This content is also compatible with the project of the Veteran Centre in Sibenik, which is completed in close proximity to the same location, and your failure to accept this speaks in principle about work without any plan. So this is simply a processing of that location that has been standing for many years after the war, as it once stood, which was military, but now it's a space for the expansion of the city, for social activities, for a new general hospital and things like that. Unfortunately, there's no hearing from the government about that. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77007	48th Amendment of Representative Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77008	The amendment is not accepted, namely the planned funds for that measure have already been increased in accordance with both the programme and the announced Government as regards the increase in the amount of parental leave compensation itself. Also the proposed reduction of the position as a source of funding cannot be accepted, as a rule it would endanger the work and existence of Croatian roads d.o.o. Since it's about the amount of 300 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77009	Since there are no colleagues, we will vote on this amendment. 49th Amendment is the same representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77010	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, there is no legal basis for the proposed law, and given the proposed sources of funding identical to that of the previous amendment. So there's the same explanation why we can't get off that position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77011	So there's also no MPs, we'll vote on the amendment. We are moving to the Croatian Fire Community and amendments related to the Croatian Fire Community. Comrade Curray stays here, so let's go to Amendment number 50 of Agent Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77012	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, we are going in reverse order of the Office of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia for reasons of the planned funds intended to settle expenditures for the employees of the Office of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, for official travel, leases and rents, protocol gifts, representation, medals and the purchase of equipment. In addition, the government considers that sufficient funds for the stated purpose have been provided in accordance with the Croatian Fire Community's '22 work programme. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77013	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77014	What's the big deal, guys? So, it's kind of genius for me to have this argument voted and the Secretary of Defense, which is especially, especially nice. It is, therefore, that the officials of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are persistently and persistently demeaning the work of the President of the Republic and the Office of the President of the Republic, that the defence minister is constantly talking about the waste and use of precisely those funds that you said in the Office of the President of the Republic, and now the government refuses the amendment to cut these funds. Not only that, you threaten with inspectors, you threaten that no more ships can be used, that the military can no longer be used, and at the end of the day when the opportunity comes to make such and such a president of this error and to refuse for one good purpose, which is the road to the firehouse to secure funds then the government refuses. It's a special pleasure to have this interpretation, it turns out that I'm home now, and you for Zoki, that's especially this good interpretation. So on the island of Brac, a firehouse was built that has no access road, no EU funds, and if home is built, and no road will be allowed. I hope that the government will find a way that this 300 meters isn't a lot to build, and as far as the President of the Republic's resources are concerned, the stockings of his work turned out to be for the Supreme Court, and his will turn out for everything else both for the army and for the brigade, and this, and then what you charge Miljanic is from Brač's punishment, then put it on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77015	51st Amendment Representative Hajdash Doncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77016	... program of work of Croatia... [[Specially enabled.]] Here. So, the amendment is not accepted, a little microphone is far away, sufficient resources are provided for the stated purpose according to the Croatian Fire Department's work programme for 2022. [[Intruder: For speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77017	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77018	So, I'm going to ask for a natural vote on this amendment. So, these all amendments that I submit on behalf of the club are actually amendments to me and Andrej Plenkovic. This Andrej Plenkovic promised everything when she was a government meeting, so a year ago in Krapina, I am sorry that there are no colleagues of Ante Sanader who is the president of the Croatian Fire Department because I believe that especially at a time of crisis, pandemic,.../incomprehensible/... land, climate change is the need for Croatia's fire community in the area of former barracks or military therefore in Oroslavje to create a fire drill. That's what we've been talking about for the last five years, so we need a central fire drill. So, the place where it is then created, not only physically but the human capital of our firefighters, but also the space is secured. So it's really weird for me that you said no. So you didn't just reject me, you turned down Andrej Plenkovic. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77019	Thank you, colleague Curai. We are now going to the amendments related to the MUP, respecting Secretary of State Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Just a second to wipe out the pay phone. Thank you. We are going to the 52nd Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77020	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear MPs and MPs, the amendment is not accepted because the project of supporting the work and equipment of the police refers exclusively to the source of funding of 52 other aid, and is only used for projects agreed with the aid provider.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77021	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77022	The Croatian police are working, and I have to say they live under really invisible conditions. Croatian police officers who protect our lives here in Mark's square in winter freeze in their containers and cook in the summer. This is a small example of people we pass daily by entering these grand courts, and whose fates we do not question enough and whose rights we do not fight enough. Not only do they protect our lives but the police today have no right to pay below the Croatian average, which does not exceed 5,000 kuna. They do not have enough psychosocial assistance, and many police officers who are just coming from Slavonia and from the Dalmatian mountain are sentenced to life under inadequate conditions in the stationers. These are all the reasons why it really is especially during this time of crisis where different security threats are growing and where on the front line our officers are the reason why we must not be spared by means relating to support for police work and equipment. It's one of the items for which we have to allocate the most money. Those who care for our lives must at least be financially encouraged to do this work properly. Therefore, I cannot accept this argument and I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77023	53rd Amendment Green-Left Block Representative Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77024	The amendment is not accepted because EU funds are defined by the EU financial framework for specific purposes. So changing the planned EU funds is neither allowed nor possible, and the purposes are already defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77025	It's obvious, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77026	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, we do not agree with your explanation, we believe that the continuous inflow of persons on the movement and on the territory of the Republic of Croatia requires strengthening integration mechanisms to ensure the speedy and quality of the involvement of foreigners in our society. We live in a country where the effusion and departure of the most potent workforce is permanent and frightening and worrying. Let's just remind ourselves that this government has predicted 16 thousand and 500 kuna to fight corruption, and it is corruption that is why our people in this country are leaving. It is to be assumed that unfortunately this departure will continue in these dramatic figures, making it even more necessary to ensure the integration of foreigners into society from the elemental need for labour. Well, that's why, regardless of your argument, we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77027	54th Amendment, same club of MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77028	The amendment is not accepted because the MUP budget is drawn up in accordance with the real needs for the functioning of the service, while the civil protection system project only finances the needs of the founding units, not all the needs related to civil protection and financed by other projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77029	Here's a statement from my colleague Rauhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77030	Thank you, Mr. President. So in the Republic of Croatia, the civil protection system has been negligible for years, which has de facto led to its collapse. On the other hand, the security challenges are increasingly related to the climate change that we witness on a daily basis, I would also say the various natural disasters that are the consequences of these climate change for the Republic of Croatia simply do not have a systematic response ready, but they assign these jobs to armed forces or to some other stakeholders who are trained for these kinds of challenges. The concept of homeland security has proved quite ineffective in response to, say, the coronary crisis, the earthquake, the consequences. Helping with the consequences of the earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area, as well as in Banija, and it is necessary to really start building a strong civil protection system and therefore we propose that some of the funds already reserved within the MUP be rerouted to this, in this system, the necessary civil protection system. That's why we don't accept your explanation and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77031	The 55th Amendment, again the same Green-left bloc rep club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77032	The amendment is not accepted because it is about EU projects and co-financing related to civil protection, and the amount of the planned funds is in line with the really established projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77033	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77034	Thank you. We don't accept an explanation. We ask for a vote on the amendment because, as in the previous amendment, I will repeat, this amendment strengthens an important system, which is a system of civil protection that we have already identified in many situations in the last 2 years. He didn't have an adequate response to the disasters that hit us. This is what we are looking for in a way to reserve funds for the first projects of the new civil protection system and to ensure that these funds are provided under the paragraph of the IHR relating to the management of illegal migration, that it is precisely because civil protection could effectively contribute precisely to that segment of the management of illegal migration. That's why we're looking, I repeat, for the vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77035	We're going to the 56th Amendment, Agent Franco Vidovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77036	The amendment is not accepted because the construction of a fire-fighting facility cannot be an integral part of the MUP budget. Since the fire department is not an integral part of the MUP, it is the Central State Fire Department and it belongs to the division of 039 and Croatia, respectively, to the Fire Department.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77037	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77038	So, what, what little I know in the budget an item can be anywhere if there's money for it, it doesn't matter who's going to run it. I don't accept your explanation. So, I've been looking for a project, I've been looking for money for a project that's no project, no opposition, no green, no red devils, no one. So this is a project that the citizens of Sibenik, who needs citizens of Sibenik-Knin County, which is needed in the finality of the fire community itself. The current firehouse is very unconditional, located in the center of the city, blocked from all sides, at the time of the intervention firefighters have a problem every time, not to mention that it is dimensional for a unit that is half the professional fire unit that is in Sibenik, and it numbers 60 people, so home was built for some 30 people when it was done, it was a long time ago. There's simply been a long time, there's a project and there's a location I think there's even a confirmation... of a project or construction project, but unfortunately there's no means to realize. In Sibenik as you know in power is HDZ, not aliens, so you reject the project of your own authorities, not mine. I don't take this personally. I'm asking for a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77039	We are now moving on to amendments related to the Croatian Defence Ministry. I thank the secretary of state and call on Secretary of State Darko Nekic. Let's go to Amendment No. 57 Advocacy Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77040	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment does not specify which activity is required to increase, and the funds are planned in accordance with needs and secured for mentioning both the Memorial cemetery in Vukovar and the anniversary provided for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77041	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77042	Thank you. So this amendment requires a ridiculous amount of kuna to build a monument that corresponds to the victim and the role that Dubrovnik defenders played in defense of Dubrovnik against Serb aggression, large Serb aggression and how much that defence of Dubrovnik meant in the Homeland War. Many Dubrovnik defenders and civilians have laid their lives in the foundations of their homeland, no other group has a proper monument to honor them for this contribution to freedom. And with this amendment we asked for the amount of a million kuna to build monuments to the civilian victims of the Homeland Movement and to build monuments to the defenders of Dubrovnik. But here's the government for that there's no hearing or feeling, unfortunately, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77043	45th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77044	The amendment is not accepted, the funds necessary for the implementation of the national programme are based on an assessment of the total funds necessary for the payment of fees to external co-workers of the ministry engaged in all counties in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb. The assessment shall also be based on the means necessary for the implementation of the health part of the programme in four clinical centres and, according to the assessment of the KBC itself. The proposed amount of funds referred to in the proposal for a state budget is sufficient to continue implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77045	Here's an obvious colleague, Mr. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77046	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. So, I'm going to ask and vote on this amendment that I'm just saying first and foremost that I don't forget later. What exactly is this about? Unfortunately today, many participants of the Homeland War still need psychosocial and health care that is not always available in time. When I say that sentence, I'm sure I haven't said anything new and that we can agree on that. It would be incomparably better if it weren't for that, but that's right, that's what we need to take care of. This is about a small amount of funds that we feel is necessary to increase the amount intended for this purpose and therefore I am further saddened by the fact that the Ministry of Croatian Defence so coldly says the amendment is not accepted because you think it is enough. I believe that at the Club of the Centre and GLAS, we feel that it is not enough, and that is why we have decided on this amendment, as I have initially said, please vote on the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77047	59th Amendment of the same club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77048	The amendment is not accepted, namely the ministry planned 4 million 600 thousand kuna in 2022. which is sufficient for the existing number of users whose increase is not expected in the next period, since the ministry has not received new requirements for the achievement of this legal right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77049	Here's your obvious, colleague Dark Taritash again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77050	Thank you very much. So, I'm going to ask that the vote be on this amendment as well. Here we are talking about the Law on the Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence for the time of armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. It is a law that entered into force in 2015. Under this law, victims are entitled to psychosocial and health care and cash compensation. It can be one-off at $150,000, but it can also be converted into a monthly rent. The government has proposed a reduction in funds under this item and we believe that the reduction is not justified. Victims of sexual violence in the Homeland War are still being prosecuted, they need support, and there are probably still cases that have not been reported and whose status has not yet been resolved. So, we refer to the law that has been in force since 2015 for six years, the fact that both court disputes and everything else are still being held, so that we find it easy to reduce this item to be wrong, we feel that it is not adequately settled within these paragraphs of the Croatian Defence Ministry and these are the reasons why we have also decided to increase this item, but why we are deciding and praying that this amendment should also be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77051	The 60th Amendment of Representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77052	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same reasoning as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77053	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77054	I thank the President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So I am not satisfied with your explanation for the rejection of this amendment and I am asking for a vote on the same because within the planned costs of 4 million kuna and 600,000 kuna, funds for victims of sexual violence during the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War. I find the amount insufficient for victims who have suffered sexual violence, and yet more injustice seems to them. It is difficult to rebuild life after violence, and reparations are not only justice within the framework of punishment but is also an integral part of rebuilding personal life is part of a broader concept of responsibility. I am asking for a vote on this amendment from all of the above.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77055	It is now the 61st Amendment of the Order of Comrade Hajdash Doncic is proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77056	The amendment doesn't accept. The Croatian Defence Ministry has already funded the construction of Rudolph Pereshin's House of Remembrance in the period from 2018 to 2020, and this draft budget provides additional resources for the internal arrangement according to the coster means that it has been delivered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77057	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77058	Well, I'm not very happy with your answer, of course, I don't know where it says in what item of the Defense Department. So that's exactly what these consumers are missing from a million 529 thousand kunas. The funds have been found, and I am also doing the Government of the Republic of Croatia a good deed because I am preventing further purchase of software from seeing that you have problems with it so that I am helping you solve something useful. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77059	I thank Secretary of State Nekic. We now move to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, I call on Secretary of State Zdenko Lucic, please. 62nd Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77060	Thank you. The proposal is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77061	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc representative, the respected representative of Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77062	Thank you, I didn't understand the gentleman, if you'd be kind enough to give me another explanation and stop me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77063	I'll repeat, so the proposal is not accepted because the planned funds are enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77064	What are they like? That's enough, okay, thank you. We think they are not enough because so far, the Republic of Croatia has had a policy to be present in international armed conflicts through its primary military component in the course of international military missions. We believe that along with military missions, civil development missions need to be strengthened since the Republic of Croatia has a significant experience in building peace during the post-war period, and we believe that we should start sharing with people in armed conflicts in order to hope that these conflicts can be resolved and reduced at the very least. That is why we believe it is necessary to strengthen this component in the state budget and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77065	63rd Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77066	The proposal is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77067	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77068	Yes, so we don't accept your explanation. It is necessary to really increase the funds for international development cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since this is a strong military political tool that can contribute to the quality positioning of the Republic of Croatia in international relations, which has so far been and as we can see has remained systematically negligible. We believe it should be strengthened, we believe it is in the interest of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia and therefore we remain with the amendments and we ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77069	64th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77070	The proposal is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient until a million-and-a-half kuna reduction is accepted because it would lead to inability to execute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77071	In the name of the club, respected representative Gamulin Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77072	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have to say that I do not accept your bureaucratic responses at all, which are absolutely insufficient and I would say almost rude to the amendments. But that's a good thing now. And of course we're asking for a vote we don't accept your argument so dry and bureaucratic. We believe that last year's activity introduced into the budget, which is related to helping persecuted Christians is discriminatory against all other persecuted religious communities, and we believe that these funds should be redeployed to projects of organisations dealing with international development, international development cooperation that do not select users according to specific religion. We believe that all creeds should be treated equally with the same of course. Thank you, so we're asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77073	Thank you, now we're moving to the Ministry of Culture and Media, the esteemed Secretary of State Kresimir Partl. 65th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77074	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the financing of artists are secured in multiple positions in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media in line with the economic and fiscal policy guidelines for the period from 2022 to 2024.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77075	In the name of the club, the respected representative Dark Taritash seems to me to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77076	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, this amendment suggests that the funds allocated to cultural workers or to support independent artists be 8 million kunas. We live a little bit longer so it will be two years absolutely in one inappropriate time of the crown or Covid, times that are very, very difficult for all of us, and who is the first to suffer in all of this. They're suffering sports, they're hurting cultures, so they're hurting everything we think they can do without it. We don't think you can do it without it. Free artists are extremely hard hit by this pandemic crisis with the crown, and we think that the fees they have received so far are certainly not adequate and sufficient and any support in the draft budget set is welcome and they are for the budget in 2022. to end completely. How do we think we're going to make some kind of leap of this country that is an important step in development and democracy and everything without any support to those who need it most, and these are artists, artists. I therefore ask and ask that votes be voted on on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77077	66th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77078	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for financing entrepreneurship in cultural and creative industries are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture at the source of the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77079	In the name of the counsel club, the respected representative of Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77080	Thank you very much. So, what's this about? It is that the funds to encourage private initiatives in cultural and creative industries are half as much as they were in the budget for 2021, but compared to '19. This reduction is also significantly greater. So we're kind of in this budget for 2022. In a series of things we refer to what was in 2019, and when we see these reductions we see it actually shrinks drastically. And so we find that unacceptable because I'm sure it's a very important sector that was seriously injured in the coronary pandemic. When you see some of the other subsidies in other things, then we think that, this demand to increase these funds is more than necessary for a simple reason, we have to turn to some other countries and see what other countries have been doing and are doing further aware of who has all suffered during the Corona era or the pandemic era, and we are aware that, of course, the first support that goes to entrepreneurs, goes to those who create values, but these are the additional values that this industry creates, so it's about cultural and creative industries. This is the added value that every nation, which every country needs, is therefore asked to vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77081	The 67th Amendment of Representative Maria Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77082	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media is in 2021. held a public call for the implementation of the Small Value Support Programme to assist the affected industry of cultural and artistic events to launch and normalise current business as a single aid due to the current pandemic Covid-19.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77083	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77084	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. It's just that what you said as an explanation, you said it was a one-time help. However, we all know that this virus was not one time but that the pandemic was still following us. One of the most affected sectors is certainly the cultural and artistic sector. You planned for 2022 in terms of aid for the pandemic singled out zero kunas. I asked you to increase that amount to at least half a million kunas because not only is culture very important to me as a humanist, because I am educated in a way that I am aware that it is not an upgrade but a prerequisite for building a civilised society, but even when I think more widely given how much the mental health of our citizens has suffered, which are all side effects of this pandemic, we must be aware that culture in that aristotelic sense is some possibility of catharsis perhaps the only way of mentally surviving our citizens. You are aware that the use of the covid certificate has significantly limited access to cultural events and that unlike shopping centres, unlike cafes and all others, and even entertainment industry, they are one of those who are currently at least able to attend. They therefore need special attention and assistance in order to enable civilised society to be built, not just its upgrade, in order to preserve the mental health of our citizens and to survive a sector that is crucial for the preservation of all the humanistic values of this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77085	68th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77086	The amendment is not accepted. Resources for the recovery of the cultural sector in 2022 They are secured through the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77087	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77088	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My dear Secretary of State, you know very well the fact that the cultural sector has received letters and 4 months of support since the start of the epidemic. The first three were at the beginning of the epidemic itself, one provoked by our signing a petition to help the sector in the first month of this year. Yes, you've had different competitions, but these tenders couldn't cover everything you need and you know it just as well as I do. The cultural sector has been highly discriminated against the economy where economic needs are being achieved today, economic support for job conservation. In doing so, independent artists and an independent scene cannot say that they are on their knees, they have fallen much lower, they are on every edge of poverty and below that edge of poverty, they are truly existentially threatened. Do we have to repeat how important our culture was in lockdown? Do we have to repeat that culture, education and science are the foundations of every society that wants prosperity, which wants one civilizational development? I am saddened that I have to pray, pray for help for those who should be first in the focus of the Ministry of Culture. And that is why we are of course staying with this amendment and I ask you to reconsider at the Ministry of Culture, the help of independent culture and independent artists at a time when The epidemic did not end but a new strain appeared [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's just necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you very much, ask for a vote?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77089	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77090	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77091	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77092	I demand a vote that and the Ministry of Culture will accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77093	69th Amendment of Representative Maria Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77094	The amendment is not accepted. In 2021, the Ministry of Culture and Media provided funds to support the cultural sector's position as a result of the Aaron virus's pandemic to support culture due to the epidemic. The sector's recovery funds in 2022 are secured through the recovery and resilience mechanism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77095	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77096	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I explained to the previous amendment why culture is important to us, but when we talk about culture here, we have to ask what culture is exactly in the Ministry of Culture. This year we had the opportunity to celebrate the incredible 500 years of Marulic's Judite and instead of declaring as any civilized nation the year of Marulic's Judite because we'll wait another 500 years for such an amazing anniversary, and you don't need to be told what Italy is doing with Dante's anniversary at the same time we decided on one principle year of reading. When the minister was suggested to be the year of Marulic's Judite, since it was a anniversary that we cannot bypass and will not repeat, unlike the year of reading that is extremely important and which can still be every year, she refused that in order not to lose any of them in that hyperinflation anniversary. So instead of fostering and affirming our cultural heritage, we decided to skip the foundations of our language and identity in this key political sense to the 500th anniversary of Marulic's Judith. And I'm not surprised now that because of this pandemic, you refuse to give support to the cultural sector, which is what I've been looking for when this culture itself, even these biggest names have not come up with enough attention from the rest of this pandemic. I cannot accept this argument, culture needs help as a result of the pandemic and I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77097	The 70th Amendment of Representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77098	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for financing the programme of construction, reconstruction, adaptation and equipment of cultural infrastructure are provided with the budgets of the Ministry of Culture and Media. Additional funds for investments in cultural infrastructure are provided in part from the recovery and resilience mechanism and partly through the multiannual financial framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77099	Dear Representative Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77100	Thank you, that part question is where that part of the money will end with no clear plan. So, this is very simple where the town of Donja Stubica gives its space, meaning where the public and civil sectors of the town of Donja Stubice want to cooperate to achieve a platform for fostering cultural identity in the area of Donja Stubica, where the actual project of the club pillar is included, a pillar of culture where the restoration of cultural goods is completed, so Feller's building and where a unique space for cultural action of the civil and public sector is obtained. As I said, Donja Stubica gives her property, giving for the innovative character of culture and creative industry where she would actually join a multimedia hall with accommodation for 10 persons, accommodation exhibits for children, mentioning the room of the Feller family, escape room, first floor of the Kajkavian Association, which still has no space for the Krapina-Zagorje County, especially which is important with the space of archive and outdoor garden that would be in line with the traditional plants of Donja Stubice. So I can't accept your explanation because it's about 5 million kuna as the first phase to solve the creation of a center for intercultural and intergenerational integration, and again I'm saying as well as I'm doing you all a favor because I'm taking down 5 million kunas from your material expenditures, expenses for the service, you know that you always have software problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77101	The 71st Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77102	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the financing of the cultural heritage protection and conservation programme are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media, and additional funds are provided from the recovery and resilience mechanism and through the multiannual financial framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77103	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we are all aware of the fact that 200 Croatian classic films are long-range on the celloside strip are threatened by the simple fact of chemical disappearance. This was warned by the greats of Croatian film such as Krsto Papic on his deathbed 10 years ago, this fall Rajko Grlic with his public appeals to the culture minister. I do not need to stress that my film fund, their film heritage, has been settled, arranged and restored by everyone in our neighborhood means I am talking about Serbia, I am talking about Macedonia, I am talking about Slovenia, I am talking about Albania, I do not even have to talk about the EU. So, I repeat, unless 15 million is set aside for the restoration of 200 Croatian classic films on the cellulose strip, they will disappear irreparably and irreparably. I don't think it's allowed. It's just not allowed. And that is why I ask that this amendment be voted upon and I ask and I ask the Ministry of Culture to understand that one of the primary actions regarding the protection of cultural goods for the simple reason that you will be responsible if it does not stop, and it will disappear because the chemical processes are unstoppable. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77105	The 72nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77106	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media, in accordance with the law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for a public call. Reported programmes shall consider and evaluate the Councils for certain activities. If the programme for the restoration of the cellar of Diocletian's palace is registered in the competition, it will be considered and the appropriate decision will be made. We also note that by amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, allocation of funds for the reconstruction of Diocletian's Palace and the possibility of achieving additional revenues from managed basements that can be reinvested in the restoration of cultural goods in the Split city.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77107	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77108	Thank you. Here is what counterpart Selak Rasdić spoke of the shameful relationship between the Ministry of Culture and one such important anniversary of Judita and Marko Marulić is also related to Diocletian's palace and basements as one of the most important resources of the city of Split, an inevitable point as part of a tourist visit to Diocletian's palace and the historic core of the city of Split. It is constantly announced that some preparation of the strategic project has not produced results, the installations have worn out, frequent floods, water leaks through the vaults whose parts are temporarily falling away and dominates the general sense of debauchery and negligentness. So we've proposed to provide financial resources for the recovery, but here's the Ministry of Culture for that, unfortunately, there's no hearing, and here's what we can do at all to get one of our amendments accepted. It's probably just an indication of this unhidden hatred that we've witnessed in recent days on the social networks of HDZ where I'm mentioned more than Franjo Tudjman. I am not surprised to be mentioned more than Andrej Plenkovic since Andrej Plenkovic has strayed into HDZ, but here I am surprised to be mentioned more than Franjo Tudjman and these rejections of all amendments are actually an indication of that one relationship that you and none of the amendments that we have proposed, and almost 200 of them are unable to accept, so that they benefit from the protection of our cultural heritage, the infrastructure of our citizens, so you reject it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77109	You're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77110	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77111	The 73rd Amendment of Honorable Representative Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77112	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the financing of the programme for the protection and conservation of cultural heritage are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media in accordance with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period from 2022-2024.g. from the original funds as well as from the EU Solidarity Fund, the Mechanism for Recovery and Resistance and through the Multiannual Financial Framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77113	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77114	Thank you. So, same as last time I say a lot of relying on so-called. Eeu funds, who knows how it's gonna end. So this is about a project that is connected to Hušnikov, which is the creation of a cultural heritage centre Krapina time, so modern technology, education, workshops, it's about the amount of 3 million kuna for which there is all the necessary resources. And again, as I say, it helps HDZ and all of you, and we're taking down three million kunas for services again, and you know that software isn't going well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77115	You're looking for a vote. Yeah. 74th Amendment of Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77116	The amendment is not accepted, the same answer as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77117	Representative Miletic is not here, so we must vote on him. The 75th Amendment of the Honorable Representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77118	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media assesses the potential risks created in the event that loan users will not be able to fulfil their obligations and in order to ensure the payment of potential liabilities that may arise from the basis of the guarantees issued and therefore the funding for the period from 2022-2024 has been planned. The programme was approved by the European Commission as State aid to the economy in the current COvid-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77119	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77120	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the role of the Restaurant Institute is not sufficiently recognised in public, but also by the government because its importance is irreplaceable in the museum's activities and preparatory archaeological sites. Since we are a tourist country and it is very important that the more sites explore and set as museum bases, I believe that by increasing the funds, this would be encouraged, but unfortunately, this need has not been seen enough, and here I am looking for a vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77121	The 76th Amendment of Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77122	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form, so as to read as follows: 38. Budget law in the proposal of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. and projections for '23. and '24. in the special section under division 055 of the Ministry of Culture and Media, the activities of the Croatian Library for Blind Sources of Finance 11 general incomes and receipts, the sub-group of accounts 323 expenses for services increased in 2022. By 60,000 kuna, it amounts to 87,704 kuna and a subset of 412 immaterial assets is increased in 2022. For 40,000 kuna, it amounts to 89,050 kuna. The €100,000 funding will ensure a reduction under the 055 division of the Ministry of Culture and Media, the capital project Construction, Reconstruction, Adaptation and Equipment of Cultural Infrastructure."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77123	Your Honor, Agent Lenart. You accept that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77124	Here I thank you on behalf of all blind and undersighted persons for accepting these 100,000 kunas, which will be an important help in their lives and importance, and a library for the blind, because regardless of the development of the electronic industry, information and these aids the library for the blind is very important for them to remain able to read and to be educated in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77125	Thank you. So the amended amendment becomes part of this budget. 77th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77126	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media, in accordance with the Law on Public Needs, calls for funding. Reported programmes are considering... Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the reconstruction program of the Zareština Museum is declared to be a competition, it will be considered and the appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77127	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77128	Thank you. The proposed funds are means for the reconstruction of the building of the Zareština Museum – Museo del territorio parentino. The restoration of the Pošestin Museum is one of the main cultural policy projects of the city of Poreč, which takes place through several phases. The funds should be in co-operation with the state spent in reconstruction. We're not accepting an explanation and we're asking for this amendment to be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77129	78th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77130	The amendment is not accepted. Same answer as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77131	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77132	Thank you. This amendment seeks funds for the House of Istrian Castles, a visitor's interpretation centre. The House of Istrian Castles is a continuation of the entire multi-annual projects of revitalisation and networking of thematic and cultural routes in the Istrian County. As far as significant resources are concerned, it is necessary to involve the state in the financing of this project. We're not happy with the explanation and we're suing the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77133	79th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77134	The amendment is not accepted. Same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77135	Your Honor, Agent Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We're asking for a clear vote on this amendment. It's about the Centre of Excellence of Grimaldi, one beautiful project, started some 5 years ago. 2016. where all young talented students and students from all over Istria would gather with mentors from the country and the world and where one collapsed old school building on a beautiful Istrian point of view has already actually been renovated, there are another 500 thousand kuna missing, so that we can round up the whole, whole process. I repeat, we'd love to, we'd like to vote, but we'd like to find a little more hearing and try to follow that project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77137	Thank you. The 80th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77138	The amendment is not accepted. Same answer as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77139	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77140	Thank you very much. It is a reconstruction of the ancient city centre of Labin, a beautiful architectural building from the time of Venice and Austria where a complete reconstruction of the old town core is needed, all underground infrastructure and resources are slightly larger which cannot only be accompanied by the city of Labin and the Istrian County financially and therefore requested the help of the state. It's a protected cultural well-being actually of the Republic of Croatia. Such goods in the world are even at the level of, say, France and Italy as world cultural heritage. The goal is also for us to get to that level with beautiful medieval towns in Istria and Labin is one of those and we regret that it has not been recognised with some means and we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77141	81st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77142	The amendment is not accepted. Same answer as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77143	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77144	Thank you very much. We're still in Labin, although the title of this amendment is associated with something else. The building of a large bathroom in Labin is actually part of the legacy, the industrial heritage of the mining Labin. The goal is to actually bring even more creative industries into the city itself. This rich industrial heritage is an ideal opportunity to attract new creative industries. The building of that former mining complex, the former large bathroom would turn into a space that would actually serve as a hap of creative industries for the entire Istrian county. And we are certainly asking to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77145	The 82nd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77146	The amendment is not accepted. Same answer as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77147	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77148	Thank you very much. Well, mine too, I won't say the same, but it's a similar answer. We're sorry it didn't show up and we're still in Labin at the old movie theater building, a building built there between World War I and World War II for the time of the Kingdom of Italy in Labin. Even preparations for opening and secondary art schools are under way in the area. The goal is actually to renovate the old cinema building. As regards a significant amount, it is also necessary to include the state in this funding, and we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77149	83rd Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77150	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. Since the rehabilitations of the Euphras basilica in Poreč are carried out in accordance with the multiannual plan for the renewal of the Euphrasian basilica set in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Media, the Poreč and the Pula diocese, and the Croatian Restaurant Institute, this amendment shall be adopted in an amended form, so as to read as follows: In accordance with Article. 38. Budget law in the proposal of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. and projections for 2023 and '24. in a special section within the section of the Ministry of Culture and Media of Activities and Programmes of the Croatian Restaurant Institute, he carried out the financing of 11 general incomes and receipts, the sub-group of accounts 323, the expenditure on services increased in 2022. For a million kunas, it amounts to 14 million 159 thousand 602 kunas. The funds of a million kuna will be provided by a reduction under the 055 division of the Ministry of Culture and Media, the activities and programme for the protection of cultural heritage, carried out the financing of 11 general incomes and receipts, a subset of the 382 capital donation accounts, so that in 2022. It amounts to 20 million and 900 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77151	On behalf of the MPs' club, the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77152	Your Honor, we're partially satisfied with your answer. We accept the amended amendment and do not ask to be voted on, but we must remind that the IDS Club has submitted 57 amendments worth 1.5 billion kuna. For this amendment we've asked for 2.5 million kuna, you've granted us a million. Of course, the desire is to spend those resources in 2022 rather than just a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77153	Thank you. So you accept such a modified text and become an integral part. 84th Amendment of Representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77154	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media is in line with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture calling for funding of the programme in culture. Reported programmes shall consider up to one word for certain activities in accordance with the law in... words. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the programme of reconstruction of the HNK building in Sibenik is registered for competition, it will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77155	Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77156	I'm not happy with the explanation and I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. The city of Sibenik won its first theatre in 1870. Since then, it has been many years, 150 years, that theater has been killed during the Homeland War, so in '91. The year got hit in the roof, then it was renovated, don't take me exactly for a word now, but I mean '93. And since then, no one's ever been like him. I also note that this theater, the theater building is located on... The main town square that was recently arranged and that this building practically cries out for reconstruction because it is not just a picture of the local community since it carries an adjective of HNK, it is also a picture of this state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If our picture is so bad, our country isn't in great shape either. So, I've been looking for some kind of minimal practical means, it's a city government project where the city government is working and I believe it's going to run for some European funds, etc., but regardless, I think the gesture would be by the state government to put such a project that capital for the city of Sibenik into the state budget, but my God, if you don't want to, you don't reject me, you reject people who are members of HDZ who run the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77157	Are you asking for a vote? 85th Amendment of Representative Sanja Radolovic. [[I've got a break-in on the side.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77158	The amendment is not accepted. Same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77159	Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77160	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I have to say that I am truly sorry for this embarrassing explanation because what actually raises Pula as well as the vast majority of our Croatian cities is a historical and cultural heritage and unfortunately it is the state that does not care about its cultural monuments. I ask you to reconsider because then it is the local community that must put into its budgets the restoration of cultural monuments as well as this staircase of the Navy church as one very valuable monument in the city of Pula and then take other possible users of city budgets of money, it is not a large amount, it is all about 500 000 kuna funds, we have seen that the church has a lot of money available in this state budget and I don't think that 500 000 kunas should be considered to be an excessive burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77161	Are you asking for a vote? 86th Amendment of Representative Cynthia Hajdash Doncic. [[I've got a break-in on the side.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77162	The amendment is not accepted. Funding programmes for the construction of reconstruction, adaptation and equipment of cultural infrastructure are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77163	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77164	So, in conclusion, no amendments concerning investments in cultural content and culture in the Krapina-Zagorje County were accepted by the government of Andrej Plenkovic. So, this is about revitalising the theater in Pregrad, so where the town of Pregrada 2019, so I've already started with a certain reconstruction myself, and I really don't understand, so it's about the amount of 5 million kuna, how you can't find it in the budget of the Ministry of Culture, I've given you a proposal like I do every time, and I'm helping you, again, to reduce the material expenditure and the material expenditure on services, so you don't have software problems, I'm reducing by 5 million kuna, and I suggest you invest it in the building of the theater in Pregrad, in fact, adaptation and I'm asking for, of course, voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77165	87th Amendment of MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77166	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Finance Act, calls for a public call, programmes... Councils. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this programme is declared to be a competition, the lighting of the student cathedral will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77167	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77168	Thank you very much. This is the amendment I submit year after year, it has always the same answer, unfortunately the same explanation, but it speaks of the central government and speaks of the local government. No one seems to care that the student cathedral, that pearl of the east of Croatia, built between 1866 and 1882, is lit up as it deserves. ... I guess the county of neither the city nor the county of the city has already had a series of cycles in power of the same HDZ that is in power and here, no one is in the interest except for my colleague Nikolic and me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I understand you on the one hand when you say you call a public-needs tender, it all stands out, but I'm saying, this is also saying that I have to endure it from year to year also talks about the central government and this local government because the mayor and the mayor obviously six, seven, eight years I've been putting up with this amendment, are not able to report something of this importance to the Ministry of Culture's tender. Otherwise just a few words about the cathedral, built by the great bishop and mezen Strossmayer, I say the architectural pearl of the east of Croatia along with the Osijek cathedral, if we speak, and we talk a lot about continental tourism about attracting our visitors, etc., I think in my humble opinion a project like this would very much help the cultural, cultural, touristic, cultural offer of our region, but also a beautiful architectural would help it to shine in a new light. I'd like a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77169	We are now going to part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister of State Šima Mršić. 88th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77170	... it does not accept.../incomprehensible/... regular operations of the Ministry of Agriculture are planned rationally in accordance with current practice and the emphasis is placed on the implementation of EU funds measures as well as intervention measures to assist sectors whose business is threatened by the Covid-19 pandemic crisis. [[Specially enabled.]] The planned funds are sufficient for the implementation of the agricultural policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77171	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77172	Thank you. So, we proposed this amendment in the state budget to provide funding for the construction of animal asylum in Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So this is a very important and very important question and I'm sorry that you haven't found the means to do so and that here you haven't heard about this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77173	89th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77174	The amendment is not accepted. The same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77175	There's no Mr. Bull, so we're going to have to vote on that. The 90th Amendment of MP Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77176	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. In accordance with Article 38(1) of Regulation (EU) No Budget law and the State budget proposal for '22. A year and projections for '23. And '24. the year in the special section under the division 060 Ministry of Agriculture Chapter 06005 The Ministry of Agriculture in the programme of agriculture, fisheries and rural development is increasing the activity of international promotion of Croatian agriculture and woodworking industry, the source of financing 11 general incomes and receipts, a subset of the accounts of 323 expenditure on services for 600,000 kuna in '22. A year so it's worth a million kunas. Funds to increase this activity shall be provided by reducing expenditure in the specific part of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia by '22. A year and projections for '23. And '24. the year under the division of the Ministry of Agriculture and the total amount of HRK 26.4 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77177	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77178	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, and welcome to all present. I thank you here that the Croatian government has recognized exactly agriculture and woodworking industry as one potential. [[Inflammation: Therefore, the amendment is accepted in the modified form.]] I thank you on behalf of all my Slavs and Baranjacs who live from this agriculture and woodworking industry. We all know they're one of the most resilient parts of our economy. The goods exports in this pandemic were by far the best and somehow the most resilient part of the economy that did not suffer such an excessive fall. Export services. But also without the help of this extremely demanding European market, we cannot expect some shifts. So here I am thanking you one more time and, of course, I accept what the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77179	Thank you very much. Therefore, it is accepted in a modified form. 91st Amendment of Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77180	The amendment is not accepted. Funding amounting to 2 million kuna in the item for co-financing of the work of breed societies is sufficient for the implementation of the programme in '22. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77181	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77182	... the funds because breeding associations represent a fundamental framework for the preservation of existing and indigenous breeds and breeds of importance for the Republic of Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]] By increasing this amount, it would be an additional incentive to expand the cultivation of such breeds because it is necessary to encourage and preserve these activities in order to preserve tradition and to spread knowledge to younger people. Since we have quite a number of indigenous breeds, as I consider horses and other animals to be the Ministry of Agriculture, and recently, the minister herself said that only association is not going well, so here you haven't worked very hard. 2 million kunas would significantly improve the situation in this sector. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77183	The 92th Amendment of Honored Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77184	The amendment is not accepted. Those funds are sufficient to carry out those activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77185	Honorable representative and vice president Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77186	Thank you very much. Interestingly, this amendment requires you to return the money intended for development projects for the region of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem which you have reduced in the proposal for this budget by as much as 20 million kuna compared to the plan you yourself proposed exactly a year ago in this Croatian Assembly. Your mouth is full of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. The first is Plenkovic not to pass but I don't know for a month not to say that Slavonia is a special area of interest and investment of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I guess I'm aware of the fact that it's one of the most abandoned areas in the Republic of Croatia, an area with the lowest employment rate and an area with the largest population outflow. But this just shows how you actually think one thing, you're saying the other, and you're doing the third because that's not how it is, then you wouldn't be reducing funds from 70 to 50 million kuna, and if you're already wrong about it, so I'm trying to correct you and tell you no, but your policy isn't. You said you'd invest in Slavonia, Baranja and Sri Lanka in particular, and then you say no, you're wrong, your amendment is rejected. You do not reject my amendment, but by refusing the amendments, you give a shower to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and you very clearly show that what you are saying is not ready to show in the most important document showing the politics and political direction of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the state budget. I am sorry for this, this is unwarranted and this is unfair to all Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and I will ask the MPs to plead on this amendment despite the fact that you do not want to help Slavonia, I believe that HS will be ready to help Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77187	So that's what we're going to vote on. The 93rd Amendment of Representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77188	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned in the financial plan of the Ministry of Agriculture for the period 2022-2024 for the implementation of the National Programme shall be sufficient for the school honeymoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77189	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77190	So you see the part where you take the money is actually supporting the work of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who has a million 870 thousand kuna since the Prime Minister is extraordinary and excellent, so I think that he does not need this support at all, and in this way with an additional million 870 thousand kuna, we would extend the National Programme of School Honey Day to students of other classes, not only the first ones, because I think it is extremely important for revitalising the support of beekeepers that he has in all the counties and regions in Croatia, support design, support so we tell the school system, children, especially first and second classes to show them, and that every little bear jar. So money can be secured because Andrej Plenkovic doesn't need anything to support him. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77191	The 94th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77192	The amendment is not accepted, the Ministry of Agriculture planned funds for the purpose of the financial plan for the period 2022-2024 and additional resources will be provided in the future in accordance with the interest shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77193	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77194	Thank you. The argument does not satisfy the fact that the situation in agriculture is quite poor, farmers are hard to break into the market because of large imports, due to the sale of foreign goods in foreign trade centres. I believe that expanding financial opportunities to improve agricultural clusters would increase the competitiveness of domestic producers on the domestic and foreign markets and would achieve greater and better conditions for more efficient use of domestic resources. Agriculture pooling is low and any rejection of additional funds for this is a step backwards in Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77195	You're looking for a vote. ... The 95th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77196	The amendment is not accepted. The support programme for defence cooperatives in agriculture and the amount of 1.5 million kunas has been planned in accordance with the current expressed interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77197	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77198	Thank you. As with all cooperatives and defence cooperatives, it is in a stagnation because of insufficient support from the cooperative state, they are being reduced to one, two or three members and do not contribute to an increase in agricultural production, especially for this defence population, which in this way eliminates its inherited problems, and I believe that more important support should be given to defence cooperatives in a significant amount. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77199	96th Amendment of Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77200	The amendment is not accepted. The budgetary activity in question has provided sufficient financial resources to continue the implementation of the National Programme for the monitoring of pesticide residues in food.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77201	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77202	Thank you. I believe the planned amount of one million kuna in 2022. is insufficient, minimum for the purpose of maintaining public health and maintaining the image of the Republic of Croatia as a country of production of healthy food since large imports importing everything, and monitoring the residues of pesticides in food in Croatia is quite poor. We are aware of this and we testify that everything is sold on the Croatian market, especially in foreign chains, and that monitoring is not enough. An increase in the monitoring of pesticide residues in food sold in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the one imported, which is far more burdened with pesticides in Europe than in the Republic of Croatia would be necessary for the health of the population in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77203	The 97th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77204	The amendment is not accepted. The programme is co-financed by the European Commission up to 75% and the funding is planned at 55D.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77205	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77206	Thank you. So the situation in the European supply chains has deteriorated, given that Croatia's significant dependence on the diet of the population is on imports, significant acceleration of activities in the part of plant protection is required in order to increase productivity of production in the Republic of Croatia. I have already spoken here several times, and in my speeches, I said that we are one step ahead, which will soon prove so, given that we have a problem today already with artificial fertilisers that will escalate this spring. We could also have a problem with protection because the production of food in this area without means of protection is missing, so we need to invest more money in this segment than the state is currently planning. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77207	98th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77208	The amendment is not accepted. In order to implement the greatest part of the activities envisaged by the plan to prevent and reduce food waste, EU funds from the National Resistance and Recovery Plan have been provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77209	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77210	I do not accept the explanation, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. For you, this resistance and recovery fund, i.e. the resistance and recovery plan and the EU funds, has become a Joker for the rejection of all amendments. We do not have a European budget, but we have a Croatian budget in which we must also allocate funds for key items and then we can further increase these funds through EU funds. I asked to increase the amount of the item by one million kuna to reduce the production of food waste and food donations. In Croatia, 75 kg per person is dropped per year. 53% of the world's food waste comes from exactly EU households and about 1/3 of the world's food that's being produced is being dumped. Croatia is very exposed to this problem. For years we've been talking about creating a food bank and you've been transferring them from year to year, even though you have a feasibility study to next year and you can't solve that problem. At the time of the general shortage, at the time of enviable inflation, it is precisely the insurance of mechanisms that will allow the reduction of food waste and food donations, one of the key items that will allow Croatia to feed its poorer citizens. Therefore, I cannot accept that this item is being saved and that the funds will not be allocated and I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77211	The 99th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77212	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned on the item of improving hunting, reducing the risk of game, damages are sufficient to carry out planned activities in 2022.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77213	Dear Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77214	Thank you, Your Honor. Secretary of State, you are a witness if you follow what happens to the population of wild pigs and here, we have also come to the centre of Zagreb. I don't know, all the time the ministry's been making deaf and blind about the damages that occur on crops in rural areas, especially in areas like Banovina and Slavonia, where there's less population, where the damage from wild boars and other game animals is extremely large, and it's never properly compensated, no matter what attempts of peasants to defend themselves from all this and to collect their damages because they're neatly played by hunting societies and sometimes insurance houses. Often people are ignorant, they don't know the right way to get their damage with the insurance of court evidence. Here we propose i.e. I, 10 million kunas more for compensation, for the right to compensate farmers because if they do not get damage, they will simply leave agricultural production on small holdings in such border areas, so that this money should prevent the population of feral pigs from being prevented, we know that the hunting grounds are not real as they are in nature, that those due to different interests are shown differently, meaning the mass here is a problem, or a hunter-farmer, here I am both a hunter and a peasant, so I know what a pity is and how some hunting societies are related, especially the word Croatian Hunting Union that has its hunting grounds for people who are doing damage from their hunting grounds, and I know for years the length of trials. The increase in damages must be excluded and that effort must be made. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77215	100th Amendment of MP Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77216	The amendment is not accepted. The forest law and the Regulation on the procedure for the exercise of the right to compensation for the KEFŠ for works carried out in forests are laid down in the procedure and the way in which the rights are exercised and the means of using compensation for the use of the OkFŠ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77217	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77218	Thank you very much. I ask that the amendment be voted on for a number of reasons. Namely, I'm going to rely on my colleague Lenart, I've asked that from the position of improving hunting and reducing the risk of savages and damages, the reduction of funds because they are more than they were in the last few years. In 2020, it was 16 million 780 850 kuna, and this year it is far more, about 61 million kuna. On the other hand, OKFŠ is something that we have reduced, we have reduced the parafiscal burden in one of those tax reforms. And let me remind you that just from these funds, there is also one separation to demining mine suspected areas that are still significant, only in Osijek-Baranja County, where I come from, we still have 12.7 km2 of surfaces which are mine suspected areas and realisation means the mine action plan for 2020 was 14.9 km2, for 2021 to 24. 11. only 4.9 km2 and next year will be cleared from mines 2.6 km2. I'll remind you that in 2023 years when we should clean up means all suspicious areas and clear them from mines, at this rate we're definitely not going to do it and definitely unless at this or in some other positions we increase the funds, it's unfortunate that even 30 years after the war we'll still have areas which mines are controversial and suspicious. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]] I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77219	111th Amendment of MP Anka Mrak-Taritash. 101st, sorry, 101st Amendment of MP Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77220	The amendment is not accepted. The same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77221	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77222	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Of course, I'll ask for a vote on this amendment. You have very easily rejected this amendment and I have no dilemmas here, so always the amendments to the opposition are easily rejected, but I wonder how you will explain it to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. In Glasgow, not so long ago, our prime minister was lightly, as you have easily refused this amendment, at the summit that Croatia would plant no more than a million trees by 2030. So we have nine years for that. If 111 111 trees are planted annually so that the prime minister can keep his promise, so you need us to be interested, we called to ask how much is one tree, so how much is the planting and everything else, about 25 million kuna? So now we have one problem. The problem is either you lightly refused this amendment by not reading it, so one day you will have to tell Prime Minister Plenkovic that you have easily refused and that there is no money for planting trees and what he said in Glasgow, a little joke or the situation is even more drastic, i.e. that our Prime Minister Plenkovic, when he was in Glasgow, as he has the custom, when he crosses the border and when he walks through Europe and the world, is easy to promise. So what did he promise not to do? So there can only be those two truths, or Prime Minister Plenkovic has made a small promise or you have easily rejected the amendment and has no means of planting trees, so I'm very interested in making sure that these millions of trees are planted by 2030, of course, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77223	The 102nd Amendment, representative of the Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77224	The amendment is not accepted. The planned appropriations for 2022 amounting to € 4 524 700 shall be sufficient to implement the programmes and activities covering the work plan in 2022 within that budgetary activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77225	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77226	Thank you. In this amendment, I ask that quality control of livestock products be strengthened. All those people who had their own pig and know what natural meat looks like, so when they come to the butcher shop and see what's being imported and appreciated, they see a very good difference. Unfortunately, most people don't know it, and they just don't know what they're eating, what a bad quality it is. This would strengthen the quality control of livestock products, it is an important element of the control system means... both the quality of meat and honey and thus the increased control could directly affect the over-injection of bad goods, which is why today in Croatia, i.e. farmers can't sell their goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, agricultural producers have trouble selling tow heroes, have problems selling pigs, have problems with production that are not close enough, not even half as much, we have problems with milk, and we import very bad and unquality goods. We've been fighting for two years with the pandemic, we're talking about the horror of the pandemic, and in another way, the increase in the number of tumors and situations in the disease of different populations that are affected by unquality food full of antibiotics and other rizoids of bad substances, and we don't want to increase control because obviously we'd cut off some import chains and those, the chains that the lobbys have agreed to earn abnormal funds. Support this, you will help Croatian peasants And if you don't support [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Incomprehensible/... [[Intruder:...]] You're looking for a vote? Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77227	The 103rd Amendment, representative of the Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77228	The amendment is not accepted. The activities of equipment of the Croatian Agricultural and Food Agency are planned in the amount of 10 935 000 kuna. Planned funds for '22. In the case of equipment for the purposes of the entire Agency, the planned amount shall ensure the implementation of the long-term acquisition plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77229	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77230	Thank you. The Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food plays a significant role in agricultural research, plant and soil protection, seminary, breeding, viticulture, winemaking, olive growing, fruit growing, vegetables, I could list more. It means quality control of all these goods and farming methods. Since we are a tourist country, it is very important that the gastronomic offer in the Republic of Croatia as a tourist country, added value that our farmers could take advantage of through tourism, unfortunately, here, the Ministry of Agriculture is not able to see, in any way not to see that old mantra that we need to connect green and blue, that we should help those forms, i.e. the institutions that do so, and there's also the agency where it works a lot and agronomists and other people who should improve and develop agriculture, just don't have a lot of money, and we're spending money on completely lame things that we don't need right now. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77231	The 104th Amendment, Representative of the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77232	The amendment is not accepted. The planned resources for 2022 are sufficient for the implementation of programmes and activities covering the 2022 work plan within that budgetary activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77233	There is no representative of Petrov, so we will have to vote on that. 105th Amendment, MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77234	The amendment is not accepted. In 2022, the planned resources in the context of the funding source of general income and receipts amounted to €27.4 million, which is more than €17.5 million compared to the current plan of '21. g. These funds are sufficient for regular business, as well as for investment in the construction of the ergele.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77235	Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77236	Thank you very much. Well, I can't accept the argument, namely, this is the same amendment that I repeat from budget to budget, and I get about the same thing, but if we're talking about state ergeli, ergeli Lipik and Đakovo, I refer here specifically to Đakovo then it must pay attention to you to talk about a very old institution in Croatia, it is very unique. And in light of what we are talking about revitalising continental tourism, or in particular the revitalisation of the eastern region of this case of Slavonia, we should consider the direction of tourism offer, cultural offer in this case. That offer would also unite the preservation of our heritage in this case of our horse or lipicaner. So I think these funds are more than symbolic. I'll tell you why. Go to Dalmatia a little bit, and go to Zagreb, and go to Zagorje, and go to Međimurje and ask people at all if they've heard of Ergel in Djakov, if they've heard of the ergel in Lipik, if they know what this ergel is doing and if they know why it's important, if they know who are famous people who are very important today and in the political and international life they've visited. You don't get the answers most of the time, you get half the answers. Maybe they heard, they don't have poems, etc., etc. Therefore, 5 million kunas, taking into account the daily functioning of the ergele, were considered realistic for further promotion that this is a symbolic amount especially if we are talking about revitalising the east of Croatia and if we are talking about improving continental tourism. I'm also glad to say that, and I'm going to say that here publicly that we're recording certain increases in the amount of ergella work, but we consider them insufficient, and these are the alignments of the maltene with inflation and we think this would be a symbolic contribution. That's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77237	The 106th Amendment of Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77238	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed activity is already contained within the activities of a common forest function through which the work of forest restoration, new forest raising, conversion and forest recovery is financed from the funds of compensation for the use of general forest functions and the regular income of the public forest owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77239	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77240	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here we were looking for a special item in this amendment that would be called the restoration of forest areas where an amount of 3 million and 800,000 kuna would be foreseen. We are witnessing climate change, large rainy rainfall and these floods that appear where they did not appear. All this is a bit of a consequence of excessive cutting of Croatian forests. We see that the EU has also been involved in excessive cutting of Croatian forests and research into it. Since so many forests have already been visited and too little has been invested in the restoration of forest areas and thus the restoration of urban forests where we would also try to reduce the CO2 footprint that Croatia has. Forests that are visited mean a complete crop where there are no more trees left are very difficult to restore, very difficult to restore, for example in the Lonjsko field of Amorfa invasive species, are difficult to restore in the mountainous areas due to the sudden, large amounts of water and streams that carry everything before them. And the Republic of Croatia did not foresee an increase in funds for the restoration of Croatian forests. We know how important forests are for drinking water and clean air, but also for other functions, useful functions that the forests provide for us, so I suggest voting on this amendment because this is important for Croatia, Croatia and the Republic of Croatia and for the population of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77241	The 107th Amendment of Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77242	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned in that budgetary position over the previous 2 years have been financed by several state de minimis support as well as infrastructure projects for the development of agriculture, food processing and wood processing industry. Since the Financial Plan of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2022 has planned an amount of 20 million kuna in this position in accordance with the proposal of the representative, the ministry will launch a public call for financing development projects for the Banovina area and will finance it from those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77243	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77244	Thank you. I am pleased that you will encourage funding but I wanted to increase the amount here for Banovina since we have the project Slavonia, and we also have a Banovina project that is slowly ahead of the collapse after a devastating earthquake, and before the devastating earthquake was also a difficult situation in Banovina, especially in terms of agriculture. So again, we're going back to those wild pigs that were doing damage there, and they're working today, they're not being recovered and they're not being solved. So farming in Banovina is about extinction. With agriculture in rural areas, younger people are leaving, but they're slowly leaving the elderly and these 6 million kuna additional what we're looking for here through this amendment for Banovina is one crumb of what it should be to keep these areas as populated or to ask if they should be displaced, so we can go there, i.e. that perhaps Croatia can store nuclear waste there not even its own perhaps other than someone else's, as waste is already being driven around Croatia, especially through Sisak-Moslavina County, which I have already talked about several times here. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77245	We will now go to part of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, Secretary of State Velimir Zunac. The 108th amendment of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77246	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the amendment is not accepted. Based on the experiences of the past 5 years and the communication that he has regularly had with users, the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds is sufficient for the proposed purpose and there is no need at this time to increase them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77247	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77248	Thank you, Reverend. On July 13th 2021, Prime Minister Plenkovic opened a new set of Međimurje Treasury in Čakovec. I'm going to quote the Prime Minister right from this opening. I want to thank everyone for contributing to this phenomenal project. This is another confirmation of how useful Croatia's EU membership is because the 85% project is funded by European funds and represents one of the most visible and qualitative European projects. We'll help, of course, that project deserves state aid, that's where the financial structure was breached, and I told the mayor we'd help. We won't ignore a project this beautiful and important, we'll find the means to do it. There, it was a quote by Prime Minister Plenkovic at the opening, I believe that in some future period, I will continue to submit an amendment to this project, I hope it will be fulfilled at the opening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77249	Are you asking for a vote? The 109th Amendment, representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77250	The amendment is not accepted. Based on past years' experience, the planned funds in the Ministry's budget are sufficient for the proposed purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77251	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77252	... I'm looking for a vote. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77253	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. The 110th Amendment, the Honorable Representatives of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77254	The amendment is not accepted. Based on past years' experience and communication with users, planned funds in the budget of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds are sufficient for the proposed purpose and there is no need at this time to increase them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77255	Honorable representative and vice president Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77256	Thank you very much. I demand this amendment to increase the amount of resources for the island's water supply from 18 million to 20 million kuna. We are all aware that, in fact, the biggest, one of the biggest problems, not just for the life of the island population, but for the economic activity, in fact, the inability to connect to the public water supply network and I believe that this amendment, despite your assessment that these funds are sufficient, would actually strengthen the support of households themselves or smaller economic operators. In fact, it is unfair in the Republic of Zagreb that we have such unequal conditions of water supply on islands and on land, when we consider that, in the city of Zagreb, a little less than 50% of the water is lost in the system, in Zadar even more than 67%, in one municipality in Zadar County, Gračac's losses reach up to 91%, if according to research conducted by the Association of Tax Libors of Lipa and I think that by adopting this amendment, by increasing these funds for household fees, to supply water actually raised that attainable standard which is not satisfactory anyway, however, you reject it, and it is my right to seek the vote of MPs and MPs on the amendment itself and I will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77257	111th Amendment, Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77258	The amendment is not accepted. Based on experience from past years and communication with users, we believe that the planned funds in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds are sufficient for the proposed purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77259	Honorable representative and vice president of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77260	With this amendment, I have asked for 2 million kunas more to encourage the island economy, but here, your answer is identical to that of my previous amendment, which I asked for 2 additional million kunas for the island's water supply, but you say that in the conversation with the users, you have concluded that these funds are sufficient. Well, I'm actually surprised by the fact that we haven't had a number of times in the media to hear that it's the island's inhabitants, but also the island's farmers who complain that they're not investing enough in the islands and that the government of the Republic, not only this one, to be honest and honest, but also many others, have actually shown no significant interest in improving where they can improve their standard of living on the islands. However, the difference between the previous governments and your government is that there really is money in the budget now. The islanders understand when money is gone, but equally, I can't, here, believe your explanation, I'm not satisfied with them because those voices that touch, not only to me, but to the general public, are somewhat contradictory of what you say they are satisfied with, and that they need nothing more in the matter, especially when we talk about these two elements, it's water supply, or help households in the availability of water, but also in encouraging the economy. So I'm going to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77261	Now we're going to part of the Ministry of Space Planning, Construction and State Property, the Honorable Secretary of State, Željko Uhlir. It's the 112st Amendment, Green-left bloc advocates' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77262	The 112st amendment is not accepted and for reasons, since the calls for energy recovery will be published in 2022 and given that the beneficiaries of the grants should carry out the purchases and carry out the work to be paid to them, the resources provided are sufficient to finance the energy recovery projects in '22. Mr. in accordance with the planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77263	In the name of the club, respected representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We don't accept your arguments. In fact, a significant part of the reconstruction of the housing fund affected by the earthquake needs to be refurbished, and it is important to ensure the mechanisms of co-financing and reconstruction of buildings, in order to ensure the efficiency of public spending. In addition, a broad energy recovery in the entire Republic of Croatia is needed, given that the construction sector is one of the key sectors for green transition, to reduce emissions and achieve the objectives of the European Green Plan. Let me express certain doubts regarding the fund which, if I am not mistaken, has dropped the competition precisely because of the IT problem. That's funny, that one... It runs everywhere, so we can't be sure that these competitions will succeed in the fund, and I think it's good management, that reconstruction and energy efficiency are working at the same time to make the best use of the funds, so we're staying with the amendment and we're looking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77265	Amendment 113, Club of HNS, HSU Representatives and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77266	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77267	This becomes an integral part of the budget. 114th Amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77268	The amendment is not accepted. There is no need for an increase in funds at this time, and if the need for those funds is determined in the following year, the Fund will be renewed and joined in accordance with Article. 5.a of the Law on Reconstruction, which enables him to carry out the following activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77269	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77270	Thank you. It's really fascinating that there's no need for more funding. We asked for 500 million more for the recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake in the city of Zagreb and the surrounding area. I'll remind you it's 1962. The earthquake struck Makarska, the hairs organised all necessary assistance within 10 days to restore damaged objects, asked neither property nor whose houses nor asked for a historical inspection of ownership, and the safety of people was important. The whole reconstruction was completed in about a year, and we are here today 60 years later in the 21st century technologically in miles of advanced system means almost two years after Zagreb and a year after the petri dish we did not get off the dead end. It's barely restored, almost the whole process is left to the people alone with inefficient dispute and insufficient financial assistance from the state. The reconstruction, I will mention slow progress not only in the field but also in the administration, mostly because there are not sufficient resources from the state budget provided, so the return requests are rejected because of the self-renewing of irrelevant bureaucratic small things, and people fall into growing poverty, debt, loans to secure themselves through their heads. It is therefore important to raise funds to remove these bureaucratic obstacles. People who have not saved money to rebuild give up, many give up work, are discouraged by the experiences of neighbors and acquaintances, even though they have done everything by procedure, do not get their money back and the question of when they will get it. So if the reconstruction process was financed by more resources, it would be faster and more efficient. and we will ask for this amendment to be voted upon. [[Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77271	115th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77272	The amendment is also not accepted because funds for municipal planning are provided by the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property in the division The improvement of housing and municipal economy and local self-government units have the possibility to report each year for the award of funds to regulate municipal infrastructure under equal conditions for all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77273	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77274	Thank you. So this amendment asked us to provide a total of 30 million kuna for the recovery of the old bridge in Sisak, so here it is saddened that not only is there not enough concern for Banovina, which is now affected by this earthquake after the war's sufferings, but it does not care at all about cultural heritage in that area and that is what grieves us. So, when we look at how the reconstruction goes both in Banovina and here in the City of Zagreb, the question is whether or not we will be able to use the funds we have received, so we cannot possibly be satisfied with the European funds. And then when we see state secretaries that you also refuse these amendments that go in favour of the protection of that cultural heritage, of course we can't be happy and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77275	116th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77276	The amendment is also not accepted because the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property, or the former Ministry of State Property, has given this historic building which is also culturally well-being in Istria County for use without compensation. The ministry also agreed to the Istrian County to start planning the building, and since the Istrian County uses most of the building and that it is the same day for use without compensation we believe that the Istrian County should participate in the reconstruction of the building.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77277	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77278	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Right, it's about building an Admiralty in Pula and it's about state-owned real estate that's been given to the management of the Istrian County. However, it should also be pointed out that the Istrian County regularly has maintenance costs that it itself rescheduls and the costs of a certain recovery of the building. However, we are still 2020. that is, the Istrian County has made a request for co-financing means that part of the cost covers what the Istrian County, which is the state since, as you said, it is exactly the day of management for 30 years, and after 30 years, it will be. And I repeat, it's a real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. In the end, I can only point out that this is another good example of mismanagement of state property by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77279	You're looking for a vote. The 117th Amendment of the Representatives of Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77280	The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons as the resolution of the glider cannot be planned without the procedures carried out to determine all relevant facts of the specific rink, the assessment of the hazard, the establishment of skating monitoring and the production of the necessary elaborates and projects without which the expected amount cannot be assessed for the recovery of the rink. The ministry planned funds to establish monitoring in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77281	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77282	Satisfied with your answer because both ZUC or the local self-government unit has this right here, so 500,000 kuna is no longer required for the protection and restoration of road infrastructures created by the operation of the Lobor Municipality of Lobor, so we do not look politically at the town of Vojovec Loborski. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77283	118th Amendment of Congress to Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77284	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as the earlier amendment because the resolution of the rink cannot be planned without all previous procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77285	Honorable representative of the Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77286	And I repeat, everything previously planned and obtained and done and that a million-and-a-half thousand kunas are being sought to resuscitate the Tuhelj Municipality and the cost of expenses for services is being rescinded so that you don't make a mistake in the software.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77287	119, requesting a vote. The 119th Amendment of the Representatives of Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77288	The amendment is not accepted for reasons because the resolution of the rink cannot be planned in total without all previous procedures, and in the following years the planning of the monitoring means is planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77289	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77290	Just for this, thank you, just for this amendment you can ask your party colleague if you are still in HNS, the head of the Municipality of Gornja Stubica that he has absolutely everything. So it's about resuscitating the glide in the Municipality of Gornja Stubica in Hum Stubičko means where the entire road infrastructure and surrounding land would be restored. And again it's worth 500,000 kuna, half a million kuna. And again, I'm helping you not to spend any favors and software.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77291	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77292	Always.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77293	The 120th Amendment of Representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77294	The amendment is not accepted. From the same conditions, the previous conditions should be met, and a glider monitoring is planned for the following years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77295	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77296	So here I am again telling you, so the restoration of the slide in the Municipality of Marija Bistrica, the protection and restoration of road infrastructure is about a million kunas in the town of Globočec, the importance of Maria Bistrica is that here I hope, especially from calling it religious tourism or from some other things as anyone wants and again it is about costs for services, so that would be reduced in the sector of the economy of Chapter 32, so for a million kuna and again I help you not to obtain unnecessary software. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77297	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77298	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77299	Thank you. We are going to part of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Honored Secretary of State Allen Gospić. Amendment 121 of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77300	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. For the next three-year period, the ministry planned funds to settle expected expenditure on the basis of existing and future contractual and other commitments. The Ministry of Finance, the IRS, is in its draft budget for '22. Year and projections for 2023 and '24. plan the funds based on the real needs for the funds to be ensured by the uninterrupted work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77301	In the name of the club, the respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77302	Thank you. So, we've proposed here means an amendment that we're asking for the expenditures to be reduced so to secure the resources for making project technical documentation for the regulation of municipal bonds and other related infrastructures, left and right of the Dubrovnik River, and I can't really believe that one of these amendments is being rejected, you don't want to accept it, but no wonder. As I said all the amendments we've given, as much as they go in favor of our citizens, in favour of improvement and infrastructure, so here you are for some reason rejecting and requesting a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77303	The 122nd amendment of MP Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77304	The amendment is not accepted. In the draft state budget for '22. A year with projections for '23. And '24. The year in item 065 of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is increasing by 150.000 kuna and amounts to 10 million 229 thousand 448 kuna and 867 kuna. In accordance with Article 38(1) of Regulation (EU) No Law on the budget of the State budget proposal for '22. A year with projections for '23. And '24. the year under the term of the Ministry of Finance 02515 Tax Administration, A541000 Eurozone Management Administration is 232 expenditure on expenditures for a reduction of 89 89 million 57 000 393 kuna to 88 million 907 thousand 393 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77305	There is no representative of Miletic, so we will vote on it. 123rd Amendment of the Representatives, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77306	The amendment is not accepted. For the purpose of improving traffic flows in the area of the city.../incomprehensible/... Croatian road company d.o.o. prepare the following projects. A project to resolve the passage of the state road through the city centre Metković, a study, study of various solutions for the passage of state road D8 through the city centre Metković. An analysis of possible solutions has been carried out passing the state road D9 through the city centre of Metković, an analysis of the possibility of improving the traffic situation by denivelating the state road D9 in part, part of the square of King Tomislav by building underpasses, and all in the last, specified conditions of dense construction of the city centre. It is agreed to create an idea solution with an elaborate on environmental protection and idea projects and local permits for project reconstruction of the intersection of the state road D8 and D9 in the town of Opuzen. The Ministry of Finance, the IRS, is in its draft budget for '22. A year and projections for '23. And '24. the year planned funds on the basis of real needs for funds, with the means to ensure the uninterrupted work of the body by reducing expenditure would prevent the implementation of the commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77307	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77308	Dear Secretary of State, I remember the last few years since the mayor of the same ruling party we now have at the state level of that moment in Metkovic no one comes except to walk during the marathon of ships. And by 2017, they promised everything. So, if we were looking for a space shuttle launch ramp for Mars, we'd probably get it, or you'd come down and promise it. We had the passage of all possible ministers and prime ministers several times during the 2017 local elections. No sign of voice ever since. And the explanation that you gave today is the same explanation copied from last year. So the denivelation you mentioned today was last year. We're not talking about denivelation at all, we're talking about another bridge, and denivelation won't solve your problem because you have 500 meters away from the border crossing that you haven't solved as well, which you're doing in the next amendment. And you can't solve a problem without another bridge, which you promised by the way. And you promised that, and that's what your representatives promised. And as long as I'm here in the assembly, I won't stop telling you this. Every state budget you get this amendment and at least let me remind you of your lies, your empty promises. And here I don't mean specifically on you, sir, you do what they're told, but I mean those who are in charge, those who make decisions, those who have been in Metkovic three times, and every time they promise. I mean the Prime Minister, I mean the Minister of Transport, I mean Mayor Metkovic, all from the same line, from the same party. 100 times promised [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and lied. [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77309	The 124th Amendment of Representatives, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77310	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads have developed a transport solution within the framework of the agreement with Croatian waters, after which the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has reached a solution on the need to develop an environmental impact study by making a major assessment of Croatia's waters. After obtaining a solution to acceptability for the environment, it will continue with further activities. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, is in its draft budget for '22. And 20 and '23 projections. And '24. the year planned funds based on realistically presented needs with means to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77311	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77312	I hope someone who's watching this will be able to listen back to what you said as an explanation. And to sum it up, you won't do anything. So, the citizens of Metkovic can't expect at least not while you're in power to get rid of even access to the border crossing. The main border crossing in the Neretva Valley. They cross 500 metres from the only bridge connecting the two banks of the Neretva River, in the centre of Metkovic. That's what you said. So you're not gonna do anything. And this is the same amendment we proposed last year and your explanation is almost so identically copied that you gave last year. And if he did, it would probably be identical from two years ago. I'll make you, as a ministry. Same as the last amendment on the bridge, the second bridge in Metkovic. That every time you go out for that pay phone you should be ashamed of, but not you specifically, sir, I don't mean you, I mean those you represent, all the lies and all the lies and all the empty promises you've made to people. That's what people are looking down and they need to know. So you won't be able to hide. Neither the mayor, nor the minister, nor the Prime Minister as long as I'm in the Croatian Parliament, I'm gonna stick this thing on your nose. Either you do or you listen to the same thing every year. Lies, lies, lies all the time, that's politics. It's your policy since 2017, and that's why every time you get it served before Christmas, so that all the people at Christmas can comment on it in their homes. You lied. [[Intruder: Looking, asking for a vote?]] Of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77313	125th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77314	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads have agreed to produce complete project documentation for the project Vučevica, which includes a node on D8 to Vučevica knot on highway A1. It is under way to obtain the necessary permission to limit the stock from the northern portal of the Vučevica tunnel to a connection on the Vučevica knot in the length of 400 metres and the construction section of the stock on the knot on the D8 to the northern portal of Kozjak tunnel, consisting of the Kozjak tunnel. After the start of the activities and obtaining building permits, construction will begin. The State Inspectorate is in its draft budget for '22. A year and projections for '23. And '24. The year planned funds based on realistic needs to ensure the smooth work of the inspectorates. The reduction of funds would prevent the regular execution of contractual commitments and regular business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77315	On behalf of the Most Club, the respected representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77316	So, we were looking for this amendment actually for Split and Dalmatia we wanted to warn about the importance of this project and this project is already presented to the institutions, the project documentation is prepared from Split-Dalmatia County, so they say that simply here is actually the most important project. The tunnel is projected to be built in the length of 2.5 km and the main tunnel will have 2 lanes and compared to the Split highway as the second largest city in the Republic of Croatia does not have the right solution. The people of Dalmatia and Kliška Zagora would get this perspective of the development of remains in the area, and this would allow Split to have a better transport connection. But here's some reason why this won't be accepted. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77317	The 126th Amendment of MP Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77318	The amendment is not accepted. By reconstructing, reconstruction of unclassified county and local roads is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, but I must mention for each year in December the Ministry of Rebalancing of the State Budget i.e. the savings within its division shall be provided by certain funds to be allocated to the county road administrations, thus providing an amount of 99 million kuna this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77319	Dear representative Vucimilovic. Do we have a connection? Do you hear us, distinguished MPs Vucilović? He obviously can't hear us. What can we do technically with a representative hearing us? Can you hear us? We don't even see her anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77320	Yeah, I hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77321	All right, then. Here you go, then, the respected MP Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77322	Thank you... Do I hear from you? [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77323	Did you hear the explanation refused or didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77324	No, I'm not, so if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77325	Then we'll do it again, we'll do it again, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77326	Honorable MPs. The reconstruction of unclassified, county and local roads is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, but I must note that every year in December, the Ministry of Rebalancing of the State Budget, i.e. the savings within its division shall be provided by certain funds allocated to the County Road Administrations, thus providing 99 million kuna this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77327	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77328	Thank you very much for the explanation. The fact is that we are in the county doing quite a lot of infrastructure projects related to that part of the VC corridor in Baranja that should connect with the Hungarian border and invests in roads, but it is also the fact that a whole series of these unclassified roads is in very poor shape, this is about a project of about five million kunas. Erdut municipality is a municipality that has suffered significant damages in the Homeland War and a relatively small municipality that does not have its own resources, and here I am calling for these funds to be found in order to make a combination of this road and reconstruction of Podunavlje-Erdut because it is also an area which is quite significant and much invested in the development of rural tourism, so that it would not only be for the local population but also for tourists who visit a number of events such as... etc. The well-known winery erdutian and here I am, however, asking that this amendment be voted on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'll keep an eye on it, thank you for the rebalancing and the county level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77329	Thank you. The 127th amendment of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77330	The amendment is not accepted. The DC3 project is not planned for the financial period 2014-2020, the production of software documentation and the definition of the area of action for the financial period 2021-2027 is ongoing and will plan new projects after approval. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Railways, Art. Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 provides for the financing of railway infrastructure by means of the planned amount of funds and the priority building and necessary investment maintenance of certain railway lines, which will contribute to increasing the quality of the rail infrastructure network in the Republic of Croatia. Following the above, any reduction in the estimated amount in the budget item A754029, once in the fuel price for HZ Infrastructure d.o.o. could endanger the safety of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77331	Dear representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77332	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I couldn't agree more, but it could endanger the locals of my area of Međimurje. The state road DC3 on the part between Čakovec and Varazdin mostly passes through the populated area, and the most critical shares are the centers of the settlements of Nedelisce and Pusce where complete construction is present on both sides of the road with a large number of predominantly domestic connections. All mentioned significantly reduces the safety of traffic on the existing road leading to the need to move the state road DC3 or to build the roadway of Nedelisce and the Desert, while avoiding a critical section of the passage through the populated areas and the area. The security aspect you're talking about right now. Building a bypass would significantly reduce total traffic on the existing road, especially the transit route. The construction and use of the Nedeliste and Pust will avoid the current collapsing of transit and local traffic that adversely affects the level of traffic services and safety of traffic participants, so I ask you to vote nicely on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77333	The 128th Amendment of Representative Sanja Radolovic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77334	Uh-huh. Reason for 128. The amendment is not accepted. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes.]] The financing of the service for the development of project technical documentation for the reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line in Istria is planned in the investment plan of HZI for the period from 2021-2025 at the investment position of 5.9 investment studies and technical documentation. The level playing field of sovereignty and survival of the Croatian people in BiH is also the national and strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. A stable, functional and secure BiH is only possible with the BiH Constitution. Establishing the equality of the Croatian people in BiH and strengthening the position of the Croatian people and ensuring conditions for their sustainable survival in BiH protects and secure national security and stability of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the security and stability of the EU's space, strengthens Croatia's economic and economic development of BiH is the largest external economic partner outside the EU with which the Republic of Croatia achieves the trade of goods. In this sense, through this activity of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia provides assistance in the field of education, culture, science and health in BiH and helps strengthen civil society by empowering young people, empowering young people, rebuilding and building up. BiH's incentive through this activity is aimed at developing a whole society with an additional emphasis on the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77335	Thank you very much. Dear representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77336	Thank you. I must say that you've really made me laugh a little bit, me and my colleague next to me this one, you've actually explained to me, in your explanation, the item I've been taking this off why I've been taking it off the item that envisioned 49.5 million kunas for Croats outside of our beautiful home, even though in previous years that item was 25 million kuna. I don't mind helping the communities of Croats beyond our beautiful but not at this amount and at the expense of the Croatians. Since you have not explained to me why you do not want to give money for modernization and project technical documentation of the reconstruction of railways in Istria, I will explain to you what this means to us in Istria. Under number one, the people of Istria's county make several multiple payments to the state budget than is returned to them. Under number two, isn't it tragic that we belong to one of Europe's most developed regions and counties, and when you get on a 10 km train from Pula, you get off because there is no railway track, there are no trains and there is no corridor at all that you can get from Pula to Zagreb. The journey of mixed purpose is therefore a bus and train from Pula to Zagreb takes you 12 hours. In parallel to Italy, which is our neighbour's borderline, the Hyperloop train is developing that will reach the speed between Verona and Trieste 260 km per hour and travel will only last 30 minutes. With this amendment, I ask once again, of course, for a vote compulsory to reconsider whether we citizens of the Istrian County deserve to be citizens of the second row, to make multiple payments to the state budget, and then to leave crumbs on the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77337	129th Amendment of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77338	The amendment is not accepted. The funds are, the funds are provided by projections and the current indicators of the number of scholarship students meeting the criteria of the tender. The competition focuses on students and students who show their will and interest in completing schooling and continuing the tradition of the excellence of Croatian.../incomprehensible/... who are completely in the world. In further activities related to the construction of the Danube Sava multi-purpose channel, a new environmental impact study is needed in line with the Jaspers team's guideline, which is a joint assistance to support projects in the EU regions, and the funds are planned in the amount necessary for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77339	Honorable representative Dark Taritash on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77340	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. With great interest, I have listened to your explanation why this amendment is not accepted. I'm going to beg a vote on this so I don't forget to say it, but we do live in a country that is very unusual. So, on the one hand, we have Danube Sava's theme in documentation, and I first met him in 1893 at the time of Austro-Hungarian that was planning to build that channel, and that Danube Sava channel we have all the time planned to build. And now that you're looking at the 2023 and 2024 budget projections, you're predicting that channel 100,000 kuna. When someone predicts an item of 100,000 kuna, it means that you don't want the item to die, but you won't do anything about it. With this 4 million kuna you planned for 2022 and what was important was that you needed it for a new environmental impact assessment, and a new environmental impact assessment is needed because the last one was done there in '96, '97. I don't know how many times these four million kunas have changed since then. So that Danube Sava channel is there for you, you have this, this four million from some of the former times. And now instead of redeploying it for education to really show that you care about the scholarship of students and secondary schools and maritime colleges and that you want further orientation of Croatia as a maritime country because when you look at some other items of your budget there you see this huge investment in maritime infrastructure, I ask you who will work there. So on the one hand you say that scholarship a lot, on the other hand you say the Danube Sava channel we have to do an environmental impact assessment, you're not going to do either. You are messing with one and the other, so I am asking nicely for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77341	130th Amendment of MP Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77342	The amendment is not accepted. The amount provided for in paragraph A5703 34 of the management and regulation organisation of rail transport shall be sufficient for the settlement of all expenditures in accordance with the legal obligations to be financed from the same planning. There is no need for a proposed increase in the amount as follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77343	Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77344	Thank you very much. Namely our Croatian Railways if we start talking about them then we definitely these 2 minutes are not the main state of Croatian Railways in Slavonia and Baranja where the train on certain shares drives 20 km per hour, and let's say from Osijek to Koška 60 km per hour and we call it a fast train. In addition, add a whole series of spring crossings that are not certain in the sense that they have a safe passage for pedestrians at all. What I've been looking for means it's done and it's about building a safe walkway crossing through a road-rail crossing in Nasha Markovac. At that section, so through that transition, children who attend elementary school from 1st to 4th grade in Našnik Markovac go through the crossing every day at least twice, and we haven't been able as a state for years to decide that these children have a safe crossing across the railway line. Then we don't have to be surprised that we have a little bit and a little bit of deaths and a variety of accidents where such things happen at our circular crossings too often and the fact is that here, I'm giving this amendment a second time, and the second time it's being rejected, and that line crossing still stands as it is, insecure for pedestrians, and it means not only adults, but children and those who go to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade of primary school. If we're not able to do this as a state, we have to ask ourselves what kind of state we are. And I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77345	131st Amendment, Representative Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77346	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with Art. 24 Laws amending and supplementing the Law on road transport, until the conclusion of public service contracts in road transport, the transport of pupils, secondary schools and financing is carried out in accordance with the law governing education, education of primary and secondary schools with the position of the education ministry. In a specific item, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure are planned and additional means for the transport and financing of certain categories of island population who have the right to preferential road transport of EUR 28,500 000 which will, after the conclusion of the contract on public... to be part of a public service co-financing fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The amount provided for in paragraph A761011-encouragement of rail transport of passenger transport is necessary for the settlement of all expenditure arising from the contract obligation of the Republic of Croatia on financing, or the provision of public service of general economic interest in public rail transport. Following this, any reduction in the estimated amount would affect the reduction in the scope and quality of public passenger transport services in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77347	Dear representative Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77348	Thank you, Vice President. I am not satisfied with your argument that the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Decision on the amounts of co-financing and criteria and criteria for the co-financing of public services in road transport of passengers contracted between JLS or regional self-government and carriers in the period '21-'27. in the annual amount established in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia up to a maximum of 428 116 733 kuna. A maximum of 75% of the amount of public service contracted by the regional (regional) self-government unit can be co-financed and public service contracts must ensure the transport of regular pupils of secondary schools and island transport of passengers. Namely, the proposed amount of collateral in the State budget for '22. Mr is not acceptable because the practice of transfer of competence is repeated again, but also without transfer of the necessary funds. The establishment of this service through a contract is not realistic. I agree that it is not necessary to remove from the position that I have cited, but since the Budget Law imposes a position that we will reduce, it is only fair to propose a position within the competent ministry, so it is also proposed in the way it is. Here, I'll ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77349	132th Amendment, Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77350	The amendment is not accepted. The operational programme competitiveness and cohesion in 2014-2020 under specific objective 7 and 1, increasing the availability of inhabited islands for their inhabitants, Vela Luka County Port Administration signed a grant contract for the construction of the Vela Luka maritime passenger terminal. The project planned to move the port from the center of Vela Luka to a new maritime passenger terminal in the area outside the former Adriatic factory with the aim of increasing the capacity in coastal line transport and reducing the congestion of the port. The project will build 3 links for public transport in the necessary parking spaces for port users. The total project value is 111 232 917 kuna, while the total amount of grants is 90 813 774 kuna. The reduction of the SOA plan in that amount would jeopardise regular financing and commitments... Agency for the Protection of National Security of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77351	On behalf of the club, the Honorable Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77352	Your Honor. As you said, it is extremely important that the island of Korčula, i.e. the western coast of the island of Korčula in Vela Luka, has the appropriate capacity of a ferry port because otherwise there is traffic of over 400,000 passengers, 50,000 cars per year, and currently do not meet the conditions. And I'll remind you now, you said that for the period from 2014 to 2020, and that was, having a year, were allocated funds. That you signed a contract in 2019, but you didn't say you'd done anything by now. You know what you did? It's been sticking poles out of the sea in Vela Luka for six years and that's it. Well, here I was saying, maybe 100 million kuna isn't enough for you, maybe you need 80 more because you know how you assigned projects there? One company came to you, applied for the competition, received the competition neatly, knocked her down, you know why, because she didn't import the documentation properly, and then the same competition was won by another company, whose father, as far as I heard, was the minister or minister. And you know how they did a 450,000-dollar job for those rods? They took a simple brush and painted for two weeks, and that's why they got 450,000 kuna. And that was all the investment in the ferry dock to this day in Vela Luka. You're talking to me here about hundreds of millions of kunas for the period that's up, you have to go to Vela Luka. Get ready otherwise for next time for the Bridge Amendments and please, be up to it. This doesn't make sense. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77353	133th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77354	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure in the State Budget on the activities of A 570219, the construction of the reconstruction and reconstruction of the facility under construction of public transport ports of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation, renovation and construction of fishing infrastructure, has secured funds of 90 million kuna, of which 15 million are planned on the 3632 line of capital aid within the general budget to be allocated to co-financing, recovery and reconstruction projects of maritime goods in general use. Local Self-Government Units are project promoters and owners of all investment activities in the realisation of transport projects, Through this process we expect the Municipality of Smokvica to propose a co-financing project. The funds of the Directorate for the Use of Official Aircrafts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are intended for the subsistence of expenditure for staff of directors, for the professional training of technical staff and pilots, for the subsistence of aviation costs, for the settlement of service costs and insurance of the official aircraft, for the settlement of the costs of compulsory subscriptions to flight documentation and other expenditure necessary for the regular operation of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77355	On behalf of the club, the Honorable Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77356	Respected, the island of Korčula, Brna is a place with a marked tourist potential. And he really needs a promenade and a beach. And compared to your 15 million, I don't know how many millions you're talking about and throwing around, we didn't ask for that much here, we were looking for almost 15 times less. And then I read from this next one. You think that the mayors and mayors on the island of Korčula are incompetent because they, as you say, should report and as soon as they ask us to report amendments to the state budget, or they are incompetent in your words to withdraw the money you so mention or what you're saying is not true. Otherwise, we wouldn't be making amendments to the state budget. I don't think they're incompetent, I think they're quite capable. Now you need to go to your ministry and ask them, please, tell me what's going on? Why has the Brna municipality been asking for state amendments to the state budget for several years to be awarded a million kuna if it stands with you over 15 million kunas and you do not assign them at all? The town of Smokey was looking for that money, looking for it exactly the way you mentioned it, and they didn't get it. I have to tell you, they didn't get that money. So they wouldn't ask for amendments to the state budget if they had any chance of getting it. So please go to your ministry and check this out. And if there's any problem with the administration, unplug it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77357	134th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77358	The amendment is not accepted. The requested production of the project documentation cannot be started until the spatial and traffic-building corridors are implemented. The reduction of the SOA plan on that amount would jeopardise the regular functioning and performance of the Agency's tasks in protecting the national security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77359	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representative of the Dauss.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it's a state road, the D302 state road, so it's not unclassified, it's not local, it's not county, because most of the time it's... Why don't you finance the road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You asked for a million-and-a-half, right, you said, for making project documentation and that's cca seems to me about 10 kilometers from the knots of the Istrian Ipsilon in Baderna to Poreč. We know that Poreč means this country and tourism, and thus also in the revenues of the state budget. And if the town of Poreč prepares a lot of things with its professional service to make the city of Poreč, the Istrian County, the Republic of Croatia, then it is normal to expect the state to co-finance project documentation for the state road. It is a quadruple road, in the future perspective because Istria is a car destination, Poreč most of its guests who come, come by cars, buses, so road traffic and from Baderna knots to Poreč is creating a big crowd and a plug at the entrance to the town of Poreč and I think that with such amendments that have their cover and its content should be accessed a little more concrete, I repeat for the state road is not an unclassified local, county road, for the state road is expected to provide financial resources for the design to start the project documentation. So if that includes the spatial-planning process of the corridor, it should also be included in the state budget. We're certainly looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77361	135th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77362	The amendment is not accepted. Building at the address of the Coast of Marshal Tito 17 which is owned by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure uses the foundation of art. 2. The Law on the way of distribution of real estate, resources, rights and obligations of the so far-called municipalities for the purposes of accommodation of the Pula port captain's station in Poreč and is only one of the users of that property. In accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is responsible solely for maintaining the space it benefits for which sufficient resources are provided in the state budget. The reduction of the SOA plan in that amount would jeopardise the regular functioning and performance of the Agency's tasks in protecting the national security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77363	Dear representative Nemet, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77364	Thank you. Here is what you stated is about a building owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is derutinous, which disrupts the vision of the city of Poreč, especially when we have the fact that the town of Poreč renovated 6000 m2 of its coast and promenade. The building under emergency needs reconstruction, no matter who's using it right now. We believe that this should be taken into account and therefore we ask that votes be voted on on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77365	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. 136th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77366	The amendment is not accepted. The reconstruction of unclassified county and local roads is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, but I must note that every year in December, the Ministry of Rebalancing the State Budget, i.e. the savings within its division shall be provided by certain funds allocated to the county road administrations, thus providing a sum of 99 million kuna this year. The reduction of the SOA plan in that amount would jeopardise the regular functioning and performance of the Agency for the Protection of National Security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77367	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Daus' respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77368	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we now hear that no co-financing is unclassified, local and county, we have heard before that neither the state is co-financed, so we hear that some funds are found in December, so we are December, no matter what the budget is, so we can use this and that means. In fact, it is a road that connects Rabac, a small fishing place that has expanded by tourism, today in the tourist season with its guests has more than 12 thousand people, a road that connects it to Labina, and therefore with all other places still Europe, the old road has been extended for the period of Austria, a winding uphill, the only alternative is to avoid traffic collapses at the entrance to Rabac because it really knows how to be very problematic in the peak season. Every single one of us down there knew what it looked like. So the only solution is to create an alternative road route through the above Rabac. We expect a little more, a little more of this hearing in such things because I repeat these are places that contribute to the budget filling, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the minimum that people in these places expect to return not for anything but for the re-infrastructure that will further enlarge it and thus generate VAT again and generate new values in society. I demand that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77369	Thank you very much. 137th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77370	Amendment 137 is not accepted, and the answer is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77371	In the name of the club, Honorable Representative Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77372	Thank you very much. I'm not going to answer the same, but I'm going to answer the same, and here's actually another slightly more complex problem. It is the medieval town of Labin, or its ancient town centre, which was built there for the period of Venice and later slightly wider, the only road passing through the tourist resorts of St. Marina, Ravni, Duga Luka, passes through the ancient town of Labina. To know what it looks like in the tourist season or what it looks like during the winter, spring and autumn when construction works are done, so they go there heavy trucks with the climb that is from the caldrum and through the very center of the old Labin core and therefore it is not without reason, because this amendment has also surrendered to try a long-standing project that sincerely hopes Labinjka and Labinjani will one day be resolved, but for this we need the help of the state, therefore by way of a long-term project to bypass the ancient city of Labin, disperse traffic through the old town and allow the flow of road traffic to the touristic hinterlands along the coast, the eastern coast of the Istrian peninsula. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77373	Thank you very much. Amendment 138. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77374	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects for the activities of A570219 the construction of refurbishments and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in public transport ports of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation, reconstruction and construction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry, is secured in the amount of 90 million kuna, of which 75 million kuna is planned on a line of 3821 capital donations of non-profit organisations, which will be intended for projects which are registered at the call of the ministry and which are valued according to the established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect Port Authority Rovinj to run the proposed co-financing project. The A545058 general support for insurance shall be provided with the resources needed for various support tasks, activities which allow the Ministry of Defence to function regularly. In addition to those resources, this activity cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77375	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77376	Thank you. This amendment sought support from the Rovinj Port Authority for the recovery of the coastal wall at the port of Valdibor. The project to resuscitate the works of the port opened for the public transport of Valdibor in Rovinj provides for the resolution of the existing coastal wall and the narrow belt of the partners of the operational coast. We're looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77377	Thank you very much. Amendment 139 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77378	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects for activities A 57029 of construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings under construction in ports opened for public transport of county and local importance, as well as modernisation, reconstruction and construction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry, it is secured in the amount of 90 million kuna, of which 75 million kuna is planned on a line of 3821 capital donations to non-profit organisations and which will be intended for projects that apply to the Ministry's call and are valued according to the established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect the Pula port administration to run the proposed co-financing project. The reduction of the SOA plan in that amount would jeopardise the regular functioning and performance of the Agency's tasks in protecting the national security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77379	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honorable representative Katarina Nemet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77380	Thank you. It is about the position of support to the Port Authority of Rovinj for the construction of the northern harbor on the island of St. Katarina. The project plans to build a harbor of approximately 152m long altitude. We disagree with your argument and ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77381	Thank you very much. Next Amendment 140, IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77382	The amendment is not accepted and the answer is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77383	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the esteemed representative of Nemet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77384	Thank you. This is about support for the Rovinj Port Authority for the construction of the southern harbor on the island of St. Katarina. The project plans to build a harbor of approximately 183m-long altitude. We disagree with your argument and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77385	Thank you. Amendment 141 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77386	The amendment is also not accepted and the justification is the same as in the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77387	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77388	Thank you. It's about support from the Port Authority of Poreč for the construction of a passenger terminal at the port of Poreč. The southern part of the port of Poreč envisions the construction of works of the operational coast and the gat for the transfer of works of international line and excursion transport. We're not happy with your answer, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77389	Amendment number 142 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77390	The amendment is not accepted because the explanation is explained in earlier amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77391	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77392	Thank you. It is support for the Rabac Port Authority for the construction of the harbor. Rabac is a settlement on the exact coast of Istria which is the only one that does not have such a built harbor, which is causing a huge problem for the future development of that village. We're not happy with your answer and we're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77393	Thank you very much. IDS representative club, Amendment 143.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77394	The amendment is accepted. For infrastructure-building projects for activities A 57029 of construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings under construction in ports opened for public transport of county and local importance, as well as modernisation, reconstruction and construction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry, it is secured in the amount of 90 million kuna, of which 75 million kuna is planned on a line of 3821 capital donations to non-profit organisations and which will be intended for projects that apply to the Ministry's call and are valued according to the established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect the Pula port administration to run the proposed co-financing project. In activities A 545049, supplies of materials, funds and planned for continuous supply of material resources to all classes and services enabling the regular operation of OS units and the planning and efficient management of supplies due to continuity in supply. Supply... the funds are needed to preserve the capacity of the OSCE, safeguard the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and the commitments made in international and defence cooperation, while those funds cannot be reduced in this activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77395	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, respected representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77396	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, this harbor we've been looking for has been built since the days of Austro-Hungarian times and has not been rescheduled since then. These amounts that you have said or mentioned will be able to withdraw are simply not and will not be enough to resuscitate a single bow because we have been looking for about 70 million kuna and 500 000 kuna, which is a very modest amount, because apparently for the recovery of the entire harbor it should at this time and 100 million kuna, given that it protects the entire pulse aquarium and we know and have seen in the last weeks and months of some announcements about what might happen to Pula but there was also Rijeka and Split and some other coastal cities because of climate change that is happening so that some parts of the city could flood in some, I don't know 50, 100 years, we believe that this is an extremely important project for the Puka and Istria County and since you didn't accept it, on Wednesday you can vote a little differently on it, so I hope that you will do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77397	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you. [[I've got a break-in on the side.]] Amendment 144 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77398	The amendment is also not accepted and the reasons are given in the same way as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77399	The argument will also be given by MP Lerotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77400	Yeah, it won't be the same, but last year when we proposed practically the same amendment, that amount that you have, as much as you said, about 90 million kunas if I'm not mistaken, I mean it's really not enough for the recovery of a single bow, let alone anything more. With this project, or this amendment, we wanted to arrange the area, or four buildings, of which the first building would have a catering purpose. Secondly, the building is actually an administrative building of the port administration, the third congress centre is the buildings of maritime agents of tourist agencies, but also a building intended for rowers and sports clubs, or more or less economic purposes that would naturally fill the state budget, and we believe that this amendment should be respected and we are looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77401	Thank you very much. Amendment 145. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77402	The amendment is also not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects for the A570219 activities of the construction, reconstruction and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in public transport ports of county and local importance, as well as modernisation, reconstruction, construction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry has been secured in the amount of 90 million kuna, of which 75 million kuna is planned on a line of 3821 capital donations to non-profit organisations, which will be intended for projects which are applied to the Ministry's call and are valued according to established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect the Pula Port Authority to run the proposed co-financing project. The reduction of the security intelligence agency's plan in that amount... would be the regular functioning and performance of the Agency's tasks in the protection of the national security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77403	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, the esteemed representative of Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77404	Here's to the funds you have here you listed 90 million kuna, 75 will go through the tender, only this amendment is worth 35.5 million kuna, so you've in the state budget provided funds for two to three of these projects, which is definitely undeveloped, I don't even know what to say anymore, that's what we said last week when we discussed the budget and it's almost unclear what this country spends on, and for those key projects, especially when we talk about coastal environments that they bring and significant financial resources in GDP, there's just no money and it's not planned to be provided. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77405	Thank you very much. Amendment 146. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77406	The amendment is also not accepted, and the explanation is as from the previously explained amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77407	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, the esteemed representative of Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77408	With this amendment, we have proposed that funds be provided to arrange the existing harbor, build hundreds of circuits of which are 40% nautical and 60% municipal. The port is situated between two organised ports called Bunarina and Delfin. The arrangement would lead to the arrangement of several kilometers of nautical moves that would allow further content to be developed, and as it is a significant amount, it is necessary to include the state in the financing of this project and to secure resources in the state budget and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77409	Thank you very much. Amendment 147. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77410	The amendment is also not accepted, and the reasons are given as in earlier reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77411	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the IDS, the esteemed representative of Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77412	This amendment, which is worth 6 million and 700 thousand kuna, provides for funds in the state budget to build a new port with 50% nautical and 50% municipal bonds. The port is an extension of the present port of Bunaryna, the arrangement would lead to an increase in the safety of existing connections, and the number of port users would increase. Construction is planned in two phases, the first of which includes the construction of dams and the setting up of floating pontoons, while the second phase is intended to build sanitary nodes and space for boaters and we believe that it is very important and we are looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77413	Thank you very much. Amendment 148. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77414	The amendment is not accepted, for infrastructure building projects for the activities of A570219 of construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in public transport ports of county and local importance, as well as modernisation, reconstruction, construction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry is secured in the amount of 90 million kuna, of which 75 million kuna is planned on a line of 3821 capital donations to non-profit organisations, which will be intended for projects which are applied to the Ministry's call and are valued according to established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect the Pula Port Authority to run the proposed co-financing project. In the A545042 equipment activities, the modernisation of technical means has been designed to equip the equipment with weapons and equipment for the purpose of fulfilling the missions and tasks of the armed forces to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and the commitments undertaken in international defence cooperation. The provision of material technical means shall be carried out to improve the material element of the capacity needed to carry out the assigned tasks of all branches and armed forces units and to achieve the declared capabilities of the forces taken over by the Republic of Croatia under the collective defence composition. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77415	Dear Representative Lerotić on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77416	Dear Secretary of State, I believe that funds as well as in previous calls are simply insufficient, 90 million kuna is simply not enough to ensure that all needs in the Republic of Croatia can be solved. I am sure that the port administration will apply for that tender or for the fund, and here I hope that the ministry will accept and allocate funds. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77417	Thank you very much. Amendment 149. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77418	The amendment is also not accepted, for infrastructure building projects for the activities of A570219 of construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in public transport ports of county and local importance and modernisation of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry is secured in the amount of 90 million kuna, out of which 75 million kuna is planned on a line of 3821 capital donations to non-profit organisations, which will be intended for projects that apply to the Ministry's call and are evaluated according to established criteria. Through this process we expect the Luka Administration of Umag - Novigrad to run the proposed co-financing project. In the A545049 activities, supplies of material resources are planned for the continental supply of material resources to all classes and services that allow the regular operation of the armed forces units, as well as the planned and efficient management of supplies due to continuity in supply. The provision of the murderous means is needed to preserve the capabilities of the armed forces, to preserve the sovereignty and integrity of the Republic of Croatia and to assume obligations in international defence cooperation. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77419	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club of the IDS representative, respected representative Katarina Nemet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77420	Thank you. It is about supporting the Luka administration of Umag - Novigrad for building the harbor and setting up the Ponton structure in Luci Dila-Belveder. In the port area of Luke Dila-Belveder, boat binding is possible only on floaters. The construction of the harbor and the installation of the Ponton structure gives it 60 communal and fishing connections that would unload the port of Novigrad. We're not happy with your answer and we're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77421	Thank you, too. Three amendments to Boska Ban Vlahek's amendment. First Amendment No. 150.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77422	The amendment is not accepted. The reconstruction of unclassified county and local roads is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, but we must note that every year in December, the ministry rebalancing the state budget i.e. the savings within its division shall be provided by certain funds to be allocated to the county road administrations, thus providing an amount of 99 million kuna this year. The funds for activities K260345 are intended for the purchase of apartments for former tenants, the needs are governed by the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. Since the needs are far greater than the means provided, it is not possible to reduce them. The above funds cannot be reduced on this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77423	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boška Ban Vlahek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77424	Thank you. Secretary of State, I don't know, I have two very similar amendments, so first I'm going to start rebuilding the roads in the village of Donji Vidovec. I'm glad you said the funds were secured at the County Roads Authority, so we'll go to them, but here's a quick explanation. Agglomeration of Donja Dubrava was carried out in the municipality of Donji Vidovec and a sewage network for fecal waters was built throughout the village of Donji Vidovec. To implement the project, funding amounting to $3.5 million is needed, and since you said we could contact ZUC, that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77425	Thank you very much. Amendment 151 of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77426	It is also not accepted, and the explanation is given in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77427	Dear Representative Boška Ban Vlahek, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77428	Thank you. I gave it very much, but this time I'll tell you about the Pribislavite. It is a settlement and municipality in Međimurje County, located directly outside Čakovec, the seat of the largest town of Međimurje County and it is the western part of that part and basically connected to the easternmost part of the city. During the reconstruction of the roads, the roads are patched up and cry for reconstruction, so we will do the same as in the last amendment, but I am certainly asking for a vote on the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77429	Thank you. Amendment 152 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77430	The amendment is also not accepted, and the explanation is the same as in the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77431	Dear Representative Boška Ban Vlahek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77432	Three times the same. Apparently, I have today's presentation of Međimurje County. This time it's about St. Mary's Municipality, which was also a road rescue. Since the municipality must be in charge of this maximum amount of around 8 million kuna, which is a major problem for them, I believe they will approve us through the ZUC. So thank you, but I'm certainly asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77433	Thank you very much. Amendment to the 153th Honored Vice President of Mrs. Sabine Voter, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77434	The amendment is not accepted. For the new route Sibenik-Drnis-Knin, an allocation permit has been issued, however, the Croatian roads have started to reconstruct the existing state road that will ensure a better transport connection between Drnis and Knin. The planned funds of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are intended for the settlement of telecommunications and municipal costs, maintenance of the Banski dvori building and equipment, the purchase of presses, the rental of equipment, systematic checks by civil servants, the implementation of work protection, cleaning services, the settlement of shares in direct costs of the use of air transport services of the Directorate for the use of the official aircraft in accordance with Article. 3. Regulation on Directorate-General for the use of official aircraft, the additional costs of the construction reconstruction carried out, and the teaching full restoration of the Banski dvori building.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77435	Thank you. The Honorable Vice-President's Assembly of Mrs. Sabina the Voice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it seems to me about 20 years later. Promises that a fast road project Sibenik-Drnis-Knin will finally be launched, and I'm getting an explanation from you today that's actually telling me that you're going to go, that you're headed for the first of the 11 stages, but that obviously it's going to be a snail step. I insist on this amendment and with a plan to single out 12 million kunas for the start of the implementation of this project, specifically for project documentation. I don't think we should particularly stress at this point how important it is actually to start the realization of this project for actually not only the entire traffic but also the economic development of the Sibenik-Knin County. The same for the demographic restoration of the Sibenik hinterland, especially in the Drniš and Knin areas, as well as the stronger development of the economy throughout the Sibenik-Knin County. Waiting no longer can, simply and before these local elections it is said it is going again, moving, but I hear from you again today that dynamics can absolutely not be called dynamics because it actually stands together, so I will ask, or ask and insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77437	Thank you very much. Amendment 154 Representative Frank Vidovic. [[Intruder: Amendment to...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77438	The amendment is not accepted. Based on the provisions of the Law on navigation and on the ports of internal waters, the reconstruction of a resort with a view to Mrčnjak is not in the jurisdiction of the public institution of the Port Authority of Sisak. In the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for '23. And '24. g. within the division of 60 Chapter 06005 of the Ministry of Agriculture on the budgetary activity of the A568000 administration and management under the Contact Group 323 expenditure on services, funds for the work of the Ministry's expenditure are planned. In view of the needs of rationalising the costs of the state budget and the maximum targeting of funds to Croatian farmers, the funds for the next budgetary period are planned at less than 3 million kuna from the current plan for 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77439	Thank you very much. Since no representative of Vidovic is present, we will vote on the amendment. And so we came to the end of this part. Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We are continuing with part of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Secretary of State Mario Šiljeg. Here, just to disinfect a little according to the epidemiological measures. Amendment of 155th Honored Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, so the amendment is not accepted. The funds for financing the project documentation for the restoration of the Risnjak mountaineering home are already provided by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, after designing it will show how much funds are needed for the renovation itself and their co-financing from EU funds is planned, and of which is the public institution Risnjak National Park.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77441	Thank you very much. As there is no representative of Miletic, we will vote on the amendment. Amendment 156, respected representatives Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77442	The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the project New Ruho Brijuna has restored facilities on the island of Mali Brijun, and the precondition for the renovation of the hotel on Veli Brijun is the resolution of the water and sewerage, for which projects are being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77443	Thank you. Dear representative Sanja Radolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77444	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of HS, Secretary of State. So I believe that you yourself know that the entire political summit likes to walk around the beauty of Brijuni National Park, however, I believe that the personal president of the Croatian government, Mr Plenkovic, is ashamed when he must bring all these delegations, when they are actually welcomed by a mockery in the way of hotel facilities. Of course it is nice when funds and revenues from tickets and other activities carried out in the area of Brijuni National Park drop into the state budget, however, I think the minimum correctness would be to finally start and invest in all hotel facilities after 30 years. I would like to remind you that there was also a state-level commission to decide exactly on the direction of hotel development in Brijuni, however, that commission did not produce any A4 paper page related to the development of hoteling in the area of Brijuni National Park itself. At the same time, hotel experts, as well as all employees of NP Brijuni, who deal with these activities in Brijuni, say that 20 million euros, i.e. some 150 million kuna, would be sufficient to bring at least the level of these hotels to some optimal level, not perfect as it should be, but for the restoration of 3 hotels, Neptune, Istria and Carmen that are under strict conservative protection. What you said is that, therefore, water, sewerage, electricity and access infrastructure problems must be resolved, so to internal traffickers, however, we have been listening for 30 years. I really think it's high time, this is one of so, this is one of the current problems, as I was just talking about the problems of the railway in Istria, we and the railway in Istria, but also the restoration of the NP Brijuni in Istria we've been listening to for 30 years and I think it's high time that this problem is finally being approached systematically, and not to be put in drops, commended project New Ruho Brijuni, but he really won't, in fact, restore all the accommodation facilities in the area. the national park itself. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77445	Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. Amendment 157, respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77446	The amendment is not accepted. In particular, the state hydrometeorological institution disagrees with the proposal since financial resources have been made available in this section in the special part of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for '23. And '24. g. sufficient for required national networks, for continuous air quality monitoring and no increase is required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77447	Explanation of the amendment, Dr. Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77448	Thank you very much, and if they are enough, then I ask DHMZ to carry out 2 measurements due to the frequent complaints made by the residents of Nashac and Donji Miholjc according to their price list, one measurement is 500 000 kuna, which is why I asked for this item to be increased by one million kuna in order to be in two cities in Osijek-Baranja County where there are plants that are serious pollutants, to determine whether to build a fixed measuring station or maybe to obtain a mobile measuring station that would then monitor the quality of air, because in Osijek-Baranja County, believe it or not, but there is still industry and that industry is a serious air pollutant such as it is. cement, which among other things in Zoljan near Nasic, which among other things uses RDF as fuel, then biogas plant in Lower Miholjc which also uses, municipal waste mixed with biowaste, which causes significant problems for residents of the area and what has to be done is to see what to do with it, and we can't do it without measurement. So the State Hydrometeorological Institute would have to make these two measurements because simply until we do, we don't know if we need them. We here in the county have only two measurement stations in the city of Osijek and one in Kopački rit, and there is no more serious industry than Saponia, the sugar can be closed and we need measurement stations in the places that I have listed, so I ask that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77449	Thank you, Amendment 158th Honored Representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77450	The amendment is not accepted, although the proposal is to increase the amount of expenditure on the nature protection item, the content of the amendment refers to the collection of biodegradable waste not planned under this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77451	Thank you, given that there is no respected MP, Miletic, on the amendment, we will vote. Amendment 159 of MP Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77452	The amendment is not accepted, namely the planned budget resources are sufficient for all the measures envisaged within the allocation of measures to encourage, research on innovation development and there is no need to increase resources to that activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77453	Thank you. Mrs. Vukovac is not present and we will vote on this. Amendment of 160th Honored Representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77454	The amendment is not accepted, namely for the specified location a consent has been issued on the recovery programme of the former factory Ferrolegura Dugi Rat according to which it is planned that the deferred cost remains or is used for the appropriate purpose at the location itself. In accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, the application of that recovery programme, including the possible cost of recovery, will be considered only at clearly defined costs, will be possible to determine the sources of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77455	Thank you. Mr. Kujundzic is gone and we will vote on this amendment as well. Amendment to the 161st Representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77456	The amendment is not accepted, in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, the application of the Sanitary Programme and possible sources of funding will be considered accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77457	Representative Bulj isn't here, so we'll vote on this amendment as well. Amendment 162. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77458	Excuse me just a second. There he is. I'm sorry. The amendment is not accepted, consent has also been issued for the specified location on the recovery programme of the former factory Ferolegura and is accordingly planned to keep or be used for the appropriate purpose in the location. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77459	Thank you. In the name of the Club of the Centre and of the Voice, the esteemed representative of the Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77460	Your Honor. As I said earlier in public communication, you obviously don't understand what this is about. So here we asked to add a new position to the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, which is to resuscitate the waste of the Dugi Rat factory, given that the rehabilitation programme on which the talks were spoken was obliged to be rescheduled by the end of 2019. After that date, the obligation to resuscitate the hazardous cost was passed by law to the ministry. The ministry had to take further steps to resuscitate it, maybe charge it from investors later, but to this day nothing happened, so we have to save in some way the face of the ministry, which is legally required to do so, predicted this point in the state budget. So here's what we're asking you to do about this wheel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77461	Thank you. Amendment 163. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77462	The amendment is not accepted. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment for the reasons that at the relevant position, the Reference Centre for the Thematic Area of the Sea and the permanent system of monitoring and observation of the Adriatic under the programme of work of the Reference Centre for the Sea for 2022. the funds for agreed activities of six million kuna and we consider them sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77463	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, Dr. Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77464	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision on the adoption of an Action Programme of the Marine Environmental Management Strategy and a coastal area called the Monitoring and Observation System for a permanent assessment of the state of the Adriatic Sea. The financial resources for the implementation of the monitoring system and observed are secured in the state budget, but are not currently sufficient. The Adriatic Sea is mainly threatened by global warming and has a double degree of warming than the rest of the Mediterranean. The Adriatic Sea is a sensitive and early indicator of the anthropogenic impacts and reactions of the marine eco system to climate change, the Adriatic Sea is a hot point of biodiversity in the Adriatic Sea already there is a long and extensive set of ecological data high resolution and this is greatly thanks to the Croatian National Monitoring project Jadran. We propose that the funds be provided with the subject of Administrative Support to the University of Defence and Security, since when presenting the final proposal for a law establishing the University, the Government stressed that additional budgets will not be needed for the establishment of the University, and now these funds appear in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77465	Thank you very much. Next Amendment 164. Green-left block representatives' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77466	The amendment shall not be accepted with an explanation identical to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77467	An explanation of the amendments to the respected MPs, Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77468	Thank you. This amendment will ensure the purchase of a new Adriatic research ship. It should be pointed out that Villa Velebita is a research ship that covers the North Adriatic and is one of the main tools in implementing the plan is actually the oldest research ship of the entire European fleet and is over 70 years old while the European average is about 20 years old. It is therefore necessary to build up a new ship, as soon as possible, for the purchase of a new ship, the proposed name Queen of Jelena 1 will amount to 5 million. This will significantly increase the quality of research into this important eco-system and guarantee the continuity of the EU's most extensive long-term sea research. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77469	Thank you very much. Amendment 165. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77470	The amendment shall not be accepted with an explanation identical to the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77471	Dear Representative Kekin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77472	Thank you. This amendment will form an autonomous measurement system that collects data almost in real time and which are publicly available for the Adriatic Sea for the safety of transport at sea, as well as monitoring the state of the environment. This system is essential for timely monitoring of the impact of climate change on the Adriatic Sea. We're not satisfied with the explanation and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77473	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Shilyeg, you're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77474	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77475	Thank you. Following a set of amendments to the Ministry of Science and Education, respected Secretary of State Stipe Mamic will explain the ministry's position and government. Let's go in turn, Amendment 166 of MP Marin Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The amendment is not accepted because an increase of 10 million kuna is an increase in budget projection by 2023. in the department's division, and the proposed funds are sufficient for the currently planned activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77477	Dear Representative Miletic is not present, so we will vote on the amendment. Amendment 167. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77478	The amendment is not accepted because the funds are provided for in the new financial perspective of the Structural Funds with the resources provided for in the draft State budget for 2022. Sufficient and allow for continued investment in the continued implementation of educational reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77479	Thank you. ... Honorable representative Puljak, please. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77480	Dearlywed, therefore, this amendment envisioned an increase in the value of the activities for the implementation of the curricula reform. The curricula reform was not implemented to the extent to which it was originally imagined, nor was it revived within the educational system. A significant reduction in the budget for this purpose in recent years meant, in fact, effective abandonment of the reform. That is why we are proposing items and continuing to implement the curricula reform, and we are asking for this amendment to be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77481	Thank you. Amendment 168. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77482	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2022. The ministry is co-financed continuously outside of teaching activities in high schools. Activities are financed by several opposition within the ministry's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77483	Thank you. Honorable representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77484	Dearly beloved, here is another item that we think is actually insufficient, not enough to encourage, therefore encouraging outside of teaching activities in high schools and higher education. Outside teaching activities are an important part of the educational process and at the level of secondary and higher education, helping guide students and students depending on individual interests and the development of specific skills and skills. We think that if it's not invested enough so far, we're proposing an increase and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77485	Thank you very much. Amendment 169 of MP Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77486	The amendment is not accepted. In the positions of expenditure for employees, the proposed mass of salaries is sufficient on the basis of the currently agreed material rights of employees. It is also stressed that salaries have increased by more than 20% over the last few years in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77487	Thank you. The interpretation of the amendments is a respected representative of Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77488	... Takes away, so it's a memorial to be given to raise salaries in education because we obviously need education to realize that this memorial does not make too much sense. [[Last-on speaker]] But although you did not accept that amendment, he will have to be accepted sooner or later because the Austrian government has proposed a ban on gathering in Bleiburg. The proposal was adopted on the basis of expertise developed by a group of experts initiated by the Ministry of the Interior there. The experimentation is extensively elaborated on 110 pages. The prominent German newspaper summarised the recommendation, I quote, that the obviously largest gathering of fascists in Europe, which, with two exceptions due to the crown, is no longer held in May in Korusko, at least in the present form, by the quote. After a few decades of tolerance, actually the Austrian authorities decided to put an end to the mass manifestations of right extremism at which our meeting president, if you did not follow the names of the Ustashas and the Dombers, and otherwise there were... and Chetniks with the Croatian army. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're actually going to ask from year to year for this item to be subtracted from our budget, but we're also going to warn why someone needs it after 76. In our budget introduces new items of the revisionist type, this is not the only one, so we think that because it aims to identify a better and fairer, and that it is better and fairer society with absolutely totalitarian ideas so that a better and fairer society today would be impossible to shape and on which day and today [[Intruder: Time]] Totalitarian society is working [[Intruder: Thank you]] The people who are working on the audit... [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77489	Amendment 170. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77490	The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds are sufficient for the maximum number of prizes for life's work and the maximum number of annual prizes, meaning one prize for life's work and 10 annual awards, the State Prize for Technical Culture Faust Vrančić, as well as two prizes for life's work and 15 annual awards, the Ivan Filipović Prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77491	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative of Pulak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77492	So this amendment envisioned an increase in the value and activity of state rewards for outstanding results in education and technical culture. Since promoting excellence is an important part of the educational process, we believe that it is necessary to increase this fund reward for all those who achieve top results in education and technical culture. The state's message must be that it will stand at every turn and encourage those who invest in effort and achieve extraordinary results. After all, we often talk about excellence, we often talk about land of knowledge, we often say that we want to encourage excellence, and then finally when we have to show some concrete moves, these moves are lagging behind. Here, we'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77493	Thank you very much. Amendment 171 of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77494	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the implementation of psycho-social support are provided in the state budget and are financed through two activities within the same, as well as EU funds on cross-sectoral cooperation with state administration bodies and public institutions and civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77495	Thank you. Dear Representative Puljak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77496	An amendment that envisioned an increase in the value of violence prevention and addiction activities from 5 million to 10 million kuna. The prevention of violence and addiction is an important task of the education system or, in particular, at these moments, we are aware that even in times of pandemic and times of this crisis we also have a statistical increase in domestic violence and increase, we talk constantly about mental health and nations and youth. The danger of these problems with time is increasing, whether or not the crisis we are in. As a result, we believe that the projected funds are not sufficient in the budget now for the successful implementation of the programme and we are proposing an increase and we are looking for, here, a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77497	Thank you. Amendment 172, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77498	The amendment shall not be accepted with a response as to the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77499	Thank you very much. Reason, Honorable Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So again, I've already talked about it in this House, but speaking in the medical dictionary, the kuna invested in the prevention of 4 kunas was saved in the recovery. When we talk about our education system, about a population that is very exposed to violence, addiction, then I think that the amount of 4 300 000 kuna is more than symbolic. If we take as many as we have the last census, it's about kuna per capita. Now it is more, of course, because we probably fell below 4 million people, but the amount of 10 million kuna, or 9 300 000 kuna, I find it realistic, and I find it necessary because we often talk about protecting young people, preventing violence, preventing addiction, etc., if we don't seriously invest in this system, if we don't show responsibility, I'm afraid that no one from this pay phone who will support this budget can talk. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77501	Thank you. 172 amendments to the Centre and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77502	The amendment is not accepted because, in accordance with the Act on Technical Culture and the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and how to distribute portions of gambling income, funds to the Croatian Technical Culture Community and national alliances are paid at the level of the revenues achieved from gambling, in accordance with the rules defining distribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77503	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative of Pulak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77504	Dearly beloved, this amendment envisioned an increase in the value of the activities of the Croatian community of technical culture. Reduction of funding for the Croatian Technical Culture Community by 10 million kuna in the '21 budget. It has damaged the implementation of various STEM programmes throughout Croatia, education and competitions conducted by the community among young teachers and students. Because it's also the draft budget for '22. It foresees almost equal to such a reduced amount, we propose an increase or at least a return to execution from 2020. So we are asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77505	Thank you very much. Amendment 174 of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77506	The amendment is not accepted in response as the previous amendment, noting that it is exclusively financing lottery assets, regardless of the planned amount of the budget position. If the income is higher, then the users get bigger funds, so this is what it's proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77507	Thank you. Honorable representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77508	Here, however, regardless of the explanation, we continue to insist or ask for a vote to increase the resources for incentives to organisations for extra-institutional education and youth education. Also, an important part of the educational process and so that these associations can systematically take over their part of the job, there must be security and predictability of funding and therefore we ask that votes be voted on on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77509	Thank you. Amendment 175 of the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77510	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77511	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77512	Thank you very much, Vice President, so I cannot accept such an explanation especially when we are constantly hearing from both the Minister and the Prime Minister about the advantages of developing the STEM area. At the same time, the incentives for the roof organisation of technical culture in Croatia are what they are. I think it is an association, i.e. a roof community of associations, that is, the Union of Technical Culture, which can certainly contribute to the further development of technical culture that is already working very hard and without whose commitment and enthusiasm, both for individuals and for those who are employed, but also for those who are engaged in technical culture gathered in different alliances, our technical culture would not be similar to what it looks like today, or for colleagues and colleagues, if we make a ratio of how many kunas we have invested in our technical culture and how much we get back, this ratio would not be much higher in return. Therefore, I think that the increase in funding for 5 million kuna is more than symbolic, there has been some improvement or increase in funds, I must certainly commend and welcome, it is something that I always do, but I think that they are still at a symbolic level and that this increase would actually mean encouraging and recognising the community of technical culture at their good work, to continue to do it and to keep someone behind their results, i.e. to value them and to want to improve them. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77513	Thank you very much. Amendment 176 of the Honored Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77514	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons such as the previous few amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77515	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Sabina Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77516	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State I assume that this part of the argument is the same as the previous amendments that the projected funds are sufficient. However, this amendment requires the opening of a new item in the budget, which is a professional teaching psychological assistance to primary and secondary school students. Namely, why? And the last research that was conducted showed, we're on the same amendment, we're on 176. I'm sorry. There's been a mix-up in my amendments. [[Intruder: Yes, to encourage associations, lottery funds.]] Okay. Yeah, I've written a lot of 30, but it's not normal to get lost in them. [[Intruder: I follow you, this can only be concluded that too many amendments.]] I shouldn't have to do that with this experience. All right, all right. Your argument is that you consider the funds sufficient to encourage associations for extracurricular, extra-institutional education of children and young people, and it is my right to disagree with you. I think that the funds are not enough, that this one should still put in additional effort, especially now that we are doing better in the budget as much as possible on all budget users, and even on the items we see much more significant, more proportionately, I will say it in terms of increases than is the case in this body. I think support for civil society and their programmes of extra-institutional education is significant. I'm sorry you don't recognize that and I'm asking for a vote on my amendment. And thank you for bringing me back on track. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77517	Thank you. He wants to do it in a crowd like this. Amendment 177 of the Honored Representative of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77518	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2022. The planned funds to ensure the implementation of Croatian teaching abroad are financed from the budgetary activity previously listed as A577012 education of children and Croatian citizens abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77519	Thank you too, Mrs. Selak Rasdic, but we will vote on the amendment. Amendment 178. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77520	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Science and Education continuously co-finances activities related to the work of gifted and talented students and students. It is funded with several positions, A579004 A577130i through partner projects funded by European funds in cross-sectoral cooperation with state administration bodies and public institutions and civil society organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77521	Thank you. Dear Representative Puljak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77522	Dears, here we have asked for value raising if we have to encourage program work with gifted students and students as well as just before when I spoke about the excellence of the Croatian education system too little attention and resources is devoted to working with gifted students and students. We feel it is necessary to increase the money allocated to such programs in order to develop and use the potentials of gifted students and students in time and quality, so that here we do not end up with all these gifted students, students, going here to other countries because we do not pay enough attention to them. Although the last year's amount has increased, we believe it is still insufficient and that is why we have proposed this amendment and we are asking for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77523	Thank you very much. Amendment 179 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77524	The amendment shall not be accepted on that activity; funds for public calls shall be provided to ensure the implementation of specific programmes of national minorities and the implementation of summer schools for members of national minorities. The proposed amount is provided for on the basis of the implementation of the programme within a few years and has proved to be sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77525	Thank you. Honorable representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77526	Here, despite your explanation, we therefore asked this amendment to increase the specific programme or funding for specific education programmes for the implementation of national minorities' programmes. Within the Croatian system of education, it is necessary to encourage these programmes more strongly, to work to extend these programmes in order to enable the preservation and care of the own identity of national minorities. That is why we believe that the funds need to be increased and we are asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77527	Thank you. Amendment of 180th Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77528	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Science and Education continuously co-finances activities related to the work of gifted and talented students and students. It is funded with several positions and through partner projects funded by European funds in cross-sectoral cooperation and with state administration bodies, public institutions and civil society organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77529	The interpretation of the amendments is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77530	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, now you see civil society associations in some segments are very good and desirable, and others are not. So let's say in working with gifted students, you're going to say that you've given a lot or that you're giving some funding through NGOs, and in others you're going to say no, no, no, these NGOs don't need to be encouraged. So you're jumping in on yourself a little bit, I'm not talking about you State Secretary, I'm talking about the government in general. It's on one side. And on the other hand, I have to agree with my colleague Puljak before me. Working with gifted students is highly underrated in our school system and I claim it as someone who comes from that system, who worked in that system. So we put a lot of emphasis on other segments of work, and working with gifted students, encouraging and developing them, we often neglect. Not often but always. So often it's a little euphemism in this sense. And if we're talking about 2 million kunas that are in this position, even if other positions were leaving other means, it tells you about some type of 20, 30 kuna per gifted student. Do we consider 20 kuna to be a symbolic sum? Well, he's not even a symbolic colleague, so buy a set of felters and it's over. Not to talk about gifted high school students where the resources and teaching for such students and extracurriculars about what I will later talk about require much, much more. So this is at a symbolic level if GDP is on the rise and if economic indicators are so great then I don't see why in our future they wouldn't invest again with symbolic 11 million kunas, and not two that would still be 100 kuna per student, which is still little. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77531	Thank you. Amendment 181 of the Honored Vice President Glasovac, concentrate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77532	The amendment is not accepted by reason as the previous amendment, noting that over the past few years we have raised funds in a position that finance the work of gifted students, which we recognise and on the other hand we are preparing new projects that will be financed from the European Social Fund and ISF-PLUS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77533	Reasoned Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77534	Thank you very much. Uh, you surprise me by refusing this amendment. Actually, that's what today is... It refuses, rejects, rejects, funds are sufficient. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you've done much to improve your work with gifted students and students because there are students in this item. However, what I do know is that the predecessor of Mr. Fuchs is Mrs. Fuchs. Blaženka Divjak did absolutely everything to massacre an entire curricula reform that should not have looked what it looked like at all. Why am I saying that? Because she acted like she was in a shopping mall, so she took out all the curricula reforms just parts of her, but she forgot about the wealth of the system, and these are gifted children and children with developmental difficulties. So I can't accept your actual argument that the investment was being invested, that there was an increase in investment in working with gifted students because what was to be done was not done, which is that in the full curricula reform the same dynamics in which they entered some route to cover how it was imagined and children with developmental difficulties and gifted students. And that's why I wrote this, this amendment because I think that our education system, and that's also recognized a strategy whose component is a complete curricula reform, and in fact that the system is subordinated and adapted to the average, and that all those who ask the system for more or can't follow it on that average are actually invisible in that system, and the purpose of the education system is that in every child, it recognizes its possibilities and draws the maximum from them. Therefore, you have the right to say that you stand out enough and that this is increasing, and I have the right to say that it is not enough, but in fact it has not done almost anything in that area, and that is why I will seek and insist on the amendment vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77535	Amendment 182. of the Honored Representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77536	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as to previous amendments with one additional note that the expert working group has either adopted or is in the phase of adopting guidelines for working with gifted students.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77537	Dear Representative Lenart, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77538	Thank you, dear Vice President. Children are the future of the country, so every new, every normal state would say, and it says that gifted students and students are the bearers of a future Croatian modern society, an advanced Croatian society. Unfortunately, though, the Croatian state does not think that way, nor does it look. The following need to reroute budget resources and expand existing capacities to target and enable gifted youth, to repeat this, to a gifted not golden youth but to a gifted youth to advance Croatian society. Stjepan Radić is 100 years ago. He said that only an educated man was a free man and that he was angry with whoever was waiting for bread from someone else's bag, and right in Croatia, we're doing everything wrong about it. Today we have very many students who finish high school so they can't read the multiplication table, that's Croatian reality. Ask around and look and try, and you'll see. And what we have gifted students and those who want more than others, more than average, we don't care enough about them, they're left to their parents that they're trying to invest in them as much as they can and then we're surprised when they pick up stuff with a suitcase and go somewhere to Ireland, Germany where they're waiting for them broadly spread hands because they're in short supply in those countries too. But they recognize, so at least they take over those closest to them in the world, and we'll probably be struggling with other cultures, so no one will have new technologies that come faster and faster every day. I'm asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77539	Amendment 183. The Center and Voice Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77540	The amendment is not accepted. This is again about lottery assets that can be planned and implemented according to how far they are realized, and what would be further noted is that these funds are additionally secured through a new project through the European Social Fund for this school year and is agreed in the amount of 171 million 14 thousand 294.6 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77541	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative of Pulak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77542	Dearly beloved, we have asked for this amendment to increase the value of assistants in teaching for children with developmental difficulties. Today, these assistants have a completely unsolved status, very small incomes, and every school year we witness problems and lack of funds that would ensure that all children who need this help can successfully participate in the course and master all necessary teaching material. This is why we have proposed an increase in these funds and we will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77543	Thank you. Amendment 184 to MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77544	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation like the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77545	Dear representative Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77546	Thank you. What's the problem with teaching assistants for children with difficulty? So it's about assistants who are extremely important for the inclusion of children with disabilities in regular classes. But the problem with them is that they're on pre-emptive work contracts and we see through these projections, so this year you've increased something by 6 million kunas, and you're thinking about increasing that amount more and more, but it's unwarranted that this amount for a significant figure is not increasing right now in this crown crisis year because it's one of the most sensitive groups in society with children with problems that are concerned by a group that is in difficulty of saying so, so they're people who are on pre-priced contracts in work. They do not enjoy collective agreement rights for primary and secondary schools, they are not employed at school but they have even amounts of monthly less than minimum wages sometimes. So they've been in a completely unacceptable working status for decades, and those people who can't really ensure their existence are helping one of the most sensitive social groups. So it's extremely important to raise that amount this year, not to raise it in projections, and who knows if we're going to raise that amount significantly. That's why we asked for an increase of 20 million kuna and that would be an increase that would still be more important than what you've actually offered is not enough. Why are our assistants still in extra bad status than they might be in a Western European country? Because our work contracts are very low, and we're in Europe according to these preeminent first-class contracts, and it means instead of reducing these preeminent labor contracts where it is most necessary. We're actually prolonging that status. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]] I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77547	Thank you very much. Amendment 185.Respected representatives of Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77548	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77549	An explanation, a respected representative of Vucilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77550	Thank you very much. I was somewhat more modest than my colleague, Peovic, I also asked for assistants to continue five million kunas because we must be aware that they work for 2.5 thousand kunas per month and at 6 months no one has to interrupt their working relationship, nor the cook, nor the housekeeper, nor the janitors, nor teachers only teachers in the follow-up have to break their working relationship and then at 9 months they must re-apply to the competition. And one very serious question arises, as they work with children with developmental difficulties can happen and there is a situation that children have to adapt each year to a new assistant in the follow-up. Since it's about children with developmental difficulties I don't really have to go into some details to tell you how stressful it is for them. They have problems without it and they never know whether at the 9th month they will have the same assistant in the follow-up or they will have to adapt to the new person again, and I think that it was high time at these positions or whether it was from the funds of the eu funds to resolve the status of assistants in the follow-up so that at 6 months they would not have an end of working relationship and to ensure that children with developmental difficulties from at least 1 to 4th and from 5th to 8th grade have the same assistant in the follow-up to make it easier for them to adopt the material. And of course I ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77551	Amendment 186 of Representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77552	The amendment is not accepted with answers as before with a small note, nor is it a project financed for decades or assistants continue to participate in the educational process, they are not the ones who participate and replace, they assist in that part of the teachers themselves. But of course they are very important throughout the context to assist and help children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77553	There is no representative of Pavlicek, so we will vote on the amendment. Amendment 187 of the Honored Vice President of Ms Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77554	The amendment is not accepted, the proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2022. The Ministry of Science and Education continuously through a public call to co-finance extracurricular activities in primary schools, activities are funded with several different positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77555	Dear Vice President Voter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77556	Thank you very much. Well, if only we had the opportunity to see that extracurricular activities were being financed with several different positions because we were just discussing such amendments that you refused to do in the short run. That's the case now, of course, with this. I will once again note that the funds for extracurricular activities simply never enough. Extracurricular activities are extremely important for quality free time to the children themselves who, through extracurricular activities, actually raise their own cultural and creative development of the very personality along with those educational educational content that is somehow the standard of the education system itself. I am sorry that you do not accept this proposal that the funds on this activity are increasing by just a million kunas, it is not much to you, it is a small drop that runs in this whole waterfall, and it would certainly mean a lot to those children in this time when we return to normal, when the children are back to school when they are no longer forced to be in their homes and to attend on the course, meaning they have returned to this social life school, so much more important and more importantly, that just in the coming year if we continue this trend, and we hope that they want physical classes as much as possible, rich and life schools through extracurricular activities that will contribute to the mental health of children and that is easier to face the consequences of all the crises that have hit them from the covid of the crisis and to earthquakes in certain areas in which we are not immune to adults, and for children it is extremely, extremely risky. Thank you very much. I'm not glad you refused this amendment. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77557	Thank you very much. Amendment 188. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77558	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation like the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77559	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Club of Centres and GLAS, a respected representative of Pulak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77560	Your Honor. Another amendment that we tried to raise funds to encourage extracurricular activities, this time in primary school. As I said earlier, extracurricular activities are very important to encourage children to engage in activities outside school. We feel that it is not investing enough, and that is why we will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77561	Thank you. Amendment of 189th Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77562	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed funds are sufficient for all planned activities in 2022. The ministry has been co-financed through a public call to co-finance extracurricular activities in primary schools. Activities are funded with several different positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77563	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just can't agree with this finding. Do you know how many elementary schools there are in Croatia? And when you divide this amount by the number of schools you'll get about 100, 150, 200 kuna each school gets by all the extracurricular activities in its school. That's not unacceptable. Especially unacceptable in a system where teachers are often forced to literally buy chalk, paper, collage paper, etc. And don't tell me it's not like that, Secretary of State. I come from this system, I know very well if you want to do anything that is a little bit more creative than teaching, even within the framework of teaching often you have to finance it yourself. And that's why when we talk about quality education and primary education to make full use of it, it doesn't just mean a quality teaching process according to the prescribed content. This includes quality extracurricular activities, so from sports to creative workshops, to different sections, groups, cooperatives etc., etc. Of course, one part is financed by local self-government units, but again as a state-funded system, this is simply unacceptable 200 kuna. Here's to 200, and that's what I said very much after elementary school, that's very little. This is an extremely important aspect of the work of educational institutions for the socialization of students, to encourage their activities, as well as to learn through the work and the following, I would like to request a vote on this mention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77565	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretary on the search for the Croatian Parliament's informer, we will take a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at exactly 16 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you. It's 4:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,10 HOURS]] Amendment 190 of Honored Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77567	... The perspective of the Structural Funds in the funding provided for in the State budget proposal for 2022 allows for the continuation of investments in the continued implementation of educational reforms and is sufficient for all planned activities. [[Specially enabled.]] I would also point out that within the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the Education and Science System, 7.5 billion kuna is envisaged and secured, as will be financed by many other projects from the regular financial envelope of the next Multi-annual Financial Framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77568	Thank you. Dear Vice President Voter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77569	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, they are announcing in this budget a large infrastructure project that I support. Investment, primarily in primary school infrastructure projects in order to ensure day-to-day teaching in schools and that is something that should exist in Croatia's consensus. However, when we build these facilities, it is a question of who will work in them and what classes will be conducted. So I think that parallel to large infrastructure investments should also work on what we already have prepared, and that is a complete curricula reform as well as one of the essential parts of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology. Why did I propose that in this budget the funds for the implementation of the curricula reform should be increased by 10 million kuna? Because for the last two years, it was simply not done because we were all in new normal or abnormal circumstances, and four years ago, as I had already said in one explanation of the previous amendment, according to the curricula reform, it was acting as if it were some sort of a shopping center where someone liked it and the minister rejected what she didn't like. Therefore, I believe that the ministry should be introduced into speed 5 and should make up for all that has been missed all these years and make sure that full curricula reform is implemented. I don't think there's enough planned resources for that, and that's why I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77570	Thank you. Amendment 191 of the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77571	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed funds are sufficient for all planned activities in '22. g. as with previous explanations, these activities are financed by several activities, with the continued teaching of this previous amendment of educational reform involving investments in this project of day-long teaching, including exactly many extra curricula of activity as well as a new work structure within the system of day-to-day teaching up to 15 hours, and an extra curricula of activity will work from 15 to 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77572	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it's the same as the basic school amendment. I will not agree when we talk about higher education and secondary schools, I think that extracurricular activities are even more important because of this educational element that we have in, or at least we should have in the system of education and therefore I will ask for a vote on the same amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77574	Thank you. Amendment 192. It's the Bridge Representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77575	The amendment is not accepted. The funding activities in question are exclusively the most priority facility in which the safety of pupils and employees is compromised, and for capital investments in primary and secondary schools funds are planned in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, totalling 2 837 000 kuna by 2026 and public calls will be announced in the first half of the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77576	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 193. Representative of Boška Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77577	The amendment is not accepted with the answer as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77578	Dear Representative Boška Ban Vlahek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77579	Thank you very much. I have two very similar amendments with the same amount in the same area, but I'll explain. So St. John's school. Marija is one of the few elementary schools is one of the few elementary schools in Međimurje County which has no sports hall, and has no conditions for one-way teaching. This year, the first phase of building a sports hall worth around 5 million kuna financed by Međimurje County, with an additional 8 million to come out. You said it would be in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, last time I asked, there was some means to be provided through the ministry so I asked for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77580	Thank you very much. Amendment 194 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77581	The amendment is not accepted with the answer as before. So for primary schools alone, 2 billion 280 million kunas are foreseen and there will be an opportunity for a public call. The main focus of the call will be just to increase the number of primary schools that will work in one shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77582	Dear representative Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77583	Thank you very much. This time it's a school in Lower Mihaljevac, which belongs to the elementary school of St. Maria, as it is the safety of children and employees, and not by carrying out these works and the possibility of closing the district school itself, which is the lifeline of the village of Donji Mihaljevac, I believe that its complete reconstruction will be included in the 8 million whether it was in the recovery plan or in the budget regardless of the position. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77584	Thank you. Amendment 195 of the Honored Representative Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77585	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77586	Dear MPs Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77587	And I'm very glad, my amendments are incomprehensible, we just have one walk in Međimurje. This project, I think it's a project to build a building of a regional school in Donji Vidovac. So we're back in Lower Međimurje that regional school should have one-way training and should be upgraded and I've asked for the means to start realising the reconstruction of the regional school, but as you've given your answer, so I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77588	This is your eight minutes. The next amendment is also your 196. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77589	The amendment is not accepted by reason as it is for these previous ones. We're waiting for a public call and everyone will have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77590	Dear representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77591	Now, in this amendment, I didn't ask for much, I asked for a million and 500 grand for the Donja Dubrava school building for the energy reconstruction that was built in '83. years so I'll beg the vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77592	Thank you. Amendment 197 of Honored Representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77593	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation like the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77594	We'll vote on the amendment. There's no honourable representative. Amendment 198. The Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77595	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons, as in these previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77596	And we will vote on this amendment. The amendment of 199 is a representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77597	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation as for the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77598	Thank you and we will vote on it, or the amendment, not on Bull. Amendment of 200th Representative Sanja Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77599	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as well as for these previous amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77600	Dear representative Sanja Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77601	Thanks again. So today, music school Ivan Matetic Ronjgova Pula is one of the biggest music schools in Croatia. It is attended by over 500 students and numbers 60 teachers and other staff. It should be said that they are now operating in tight conditions since they had to leave the monumental building in the Emerald Street that requires the first design technical documentation, and this was the intensity of my amendment to create an idea solution with a million kuna, a major implementation project, a design of equipment, and with the remaining million kunas to move into the initial phase of construction crafts work, and all so that there could be conditions for co-financing from EU funds if there is again co-financing through energy recovery or cultural heritage funds. I would also just like to point out one fact to you, you are constantly saying that you are rejecting the amendments because it will be financed or co-financed through the NPO, I think that you should show the local and regional self-government units a little bit, and I mean mostly regional self-government units, since everything that needs to be co-financed from the NPO related to primary and secondary education will have to be put in some way either in the county development strategies or in the county budgets. You know that we have different political situations in Croatia, and I think that the resolution ministry as one responsible actor and participant should therefore also contact all local and regional units that have the intensity to report for co-financing of reconstruction, upgrade or school building since the call has already been announced for the World Bank loan on your site, and very little is known about it by local school founders and I think it has already passed not 5 to 12 but that it is already 12 and 5 on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77602	Are you asking for a vote? Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77603	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77604	Okay. Amendment 201.Representative Sanja Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77605	The amendment is not accepted as in the previous one with the same explanation with a small addition that also basic school in Fažana, as well as music as any other project in Međimurje, Slavonia, Dalmatia or anywhere will have the opportunity to apply for public calls that will follow, and besides the project documentation will be an acceptable cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77606	Representative Sanja Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77607	I'm so glad you said that. The amendment therefore referred to the construction of Fažana Elementary School where SDP tried several times only to include project technical documentation in the county budget. Since Istria County is the founder of that school, however, that the situation is in our county, and also in the rest of Croatia exactly what I was telling you earlier. The political situation is such that the county government does not want to put into the budget or co-finance project technical documentation. Now, within a few days in Istria County, the vote of the county budget is expected, and neither is the initial step for the primary school listed here by Fažana as other schools has been put in place, nor is the budget projections, so I'm wondering how you plan to do it then that we will be able to finance the NPO. So we won't meet the basic legal requirements for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77608	Is this too, of course, so, of course, write. All right, Amendment 202 of the same MP, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77609	The amendment is not accepted with these same arguments as for the previous ones, and here's another note, by the way, I answer questions. So co-financing is gone, NPO is 100% co-financing so that in the rebalancing of the founders of counties, the cities that will propose without problems can be proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77610	Advocacy Radolović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77611	Thank you. I'm going to take a chance on the replica, okay, you're telling the NGO that it's going to be financed 100%, but what with that 30 billion loan that went to the expense of the Ministry of Science's funds, which has just been published by a public call that goes parallel to the IPO, so we're committed to the National Development Strategy that with the question of our education we're going to come with a thousand and 400, a thousand 96 hours that we're going to come to 4 thousand teaching hours and we're going to say that we're going to finance 100% of the IPO and part of the co-financing of World Bank loans. So not everyone will be able to enter the IPO program because there is simply no means to build schools, dining rooms, libraries and anything else that we need to meet these preconditions. This amendment referred to funds for the equipment of the Umag High School, which is alone where the City of Umag really risked itself where again the Istrian County did not want to jump in with 1 lip of co-financing, where they created project technical documentation themselves, where they built the entire high school at 3,000 square meters on 3 floors that will certainly be one of the most modern in the state and, of course, they are now lacking equipment resources, which, it should also say, is a major problem in the entire EU funding system of projects and... mechanisms where high rock bau is financed, etc. We have a problem because so far our school equipment has been unreligable. So, I don't know if it'll be and I hope it will go through the MPO. But it really should be seen through our operational programmes and very well negotiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77612	Thank you. Are you looking for a vote maybe? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendment 203 of Representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77613	203 or 204?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77614	203.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77615	203 good. The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as well as with previous amendments. So it's another seven-and-a-half billion of which four-and-a-half for infrastructure just from the IPO. They're parallelly prepared and programmed to program the next... in which other funds are expected. The World Bank and the model is something that is primarily for soft measures and like the ESEF that we used to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77616	We'll vote on this. Representative Marijan Pavliček also tabled Amendment 204. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77617	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77618	Then we'll vote on it. Amendment 205 also Mr. Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77619	It is not accepted with an explanation as on the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77620	And we'll vote on him. Amendment 206 of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77621	The amendment is not accepted. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan provides for significant changes not only in the preschool programme, but also in other programmes for children from 3 years to school. Therefore, funds for pre-school education and education for the next period are provided through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of €1 billion and €620 million and are sufficient for planned activities, and will also be provided by cohesion policy means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77622	Thank you. The esteemed representative, Dr. Maria Selak Rasudić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77623	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. So today we've been hearing all day about how problems will be solved by the funds that will be allocated to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. One would think that we do not have a budget in the Republic of Croatia at all, but the only thing we have and what we can count on are EU funds, which is completely incorrect. Because as much as it is and the question is how much will it be depending on what we pull they're still a smaller part of our budget. So it's actually about one wilder explanation, one excuse that's trying to cloud the fact that you don't want to invest in certain things. I specifically asked here to allocate funds to raise and educate children in preschool programmes to increase by 4 million kuna. What's the matter? It's a well-known problem. So Croatia is missing an educator in kindergartens. We are estimated to be missing about 2 to 3 thousand educators, and this is not even enough for a number of children to be included in the preschool system at all, so 82% should have a minimum of 92%. So you can imagine how much we really lack a teacher so that we can have such a skill in a kindergarten that is able to educate and deal with our preschoolers. So at no level does preschool education work in Croatia according to standards and I will ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77624	Amendment 207 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77625	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation as well as the previous one in addition to this infrastructure and these billions and 620 million there are a lot of activities planned. So the sustainability issue and one model of financing in the IPO clearly writes by the end of the second quarter of 23rd year must be adopted. We also have a question of affordability, funding and assistance to those parents who will not be able to provide their own via the ISF MPO guarantees the construction of 22500 new places for kindergarten children, as well as the takeover of indicators that we have committed to raising to more than 90%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77626	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 208 of MP Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77627	The amendment is not accepted. The activities of the Ministry of Science and Education have been provided with funding for children with developmental difficulties, and in line with the planned changes, funds have been provided for the creation of preconditions for the greater involvement of children with disabilities in the early preschool education and education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77628	Honorable representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77629	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote. I believe that the funds are not enough because discrimination against children with developmental difficulties is done, which is very important for participation in early preschool education and education is useful for every child, and especially for children in an unfavourable situation and therefore I believe that the funds are insufficient and I am asking for an increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77630	Thank you. Amendment 209 of Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77631	The amendment is not accepted. Expenses for primary school staff are proposed in sufficient amounts on the basis of the currently agreed material rights of employees. We also note that the salaries of the last few years have increased for all employees in the system by more than 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77632	Thank you. Honorable representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77633	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, I think you know the fact that we have a very ugly virus in place called Covid-19, I hope you know that fact. And recent research by the Institute of Social Research that captured 27 thousand students, 417 professional associates, and 4796 teachers and teachers showed that the pandemic had a negative or pronounced negative impact on the lives of most students, their motivation and mental health. Especially worrying that research has shown that there is a significant increase in depressed and anxiety in students, and phobias and fears. This should include those students who are in earthquake - affected areas where they certainly have consequences and a number of traumatic events. I also hope that you know that we are in force from 2008. The state pedagogical standard, which says that the primary and secondary education systems also require a number of students who are associated with the number of students who would help students in such conditions. Research by an association called "Psychological Spring" has shown that as many as 233 basic schools employ fewer professional associates than prescribed where psychologists employ only 43% of schools. So I'm the Secretary of State, I hope this is all familiar to you. I hope that the role and tasks of the ministry are to help children in such situations and this amendment we only wanted to provide funds so that we could hire employees who could help our children in primary school, and it is also related to the amendment to high school And please take a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77634	Thank you. Amendment 210 of the Honored Representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77635	The amendment is not accepted for NPOO. One of the key investments in the education system is just as I mentioned building an additional 22,500 places in pre-school institutions that should be realised by 2026, which would be in early and pre-school education at the age of 3. Until school leaving increased coverage from the existing 76.3 to 90%. So this investment is provided with a billion and 620 million kuna. We're expecting a public call in the next 60 days. The position is an EU source, this amount is the planned projected amount to be agreed and spent next year. If he gets bigger, it is no problem at all, then to increase or allow such positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77636	Dear Representative Boška Ban Vlahek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77637	... I don't know if you guys had a lot of money for everything we're looking for. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the general problem of what I've been looking for around kindergartens is the filling of kindergartens and the capacity of children as children from their settlements, their municipalities, their cities go to other towns nearby, which is a general problem for parents who have to drive. Since all of this will be secured in the NPOO, I believe that these funds will in some way be provided in cooperation with you and that we will facilitate the parents of kindergarten days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77638	Are you asking for a vote? Okay, thanks. Amendment 211 of the respected representatives of Boska Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77639	The amendment is not accepted with reasons as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77640	Here you go, ma'am. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77641	Thank you very much. I just have to say that I agree with my colleagues and Selak Rasdic and with my colleague Radolović, that JLS should really inform the above because in some conversations they did not know at all that they could report to such a competition, so I ask you and I appeal that you do some meetings, some kind of education, anything that the locals, JLS know about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77642	Amendment 212 is Honored Vice President Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77643	The amendment is not accepted. Again, the NPOO provides for significant changes in the pre-school education and education system for which 4.5 billion kuna is guaranteed, and the planned funds are sufficient. About the calls for kindergartens a month and a half ago we sent letters and announced a call to all municipalities and cities, asked them to show interest in various 9 Excel shits. They delivered this by 15.11. and the interest they showed is not greater than the planned number of places we reported. And now, based on that interest, there will be criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77644	The amendment in 213 is the respected representative Romana Nikolic. I'm sorry, we'll vote on the amendment, ma'am. The voter isn't here. Amendment 213, please excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77645	Amendment 213 shall not be accepted with the answer as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77646	Honorable representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77647	I'm staying on the amendment and I'm asking for a vote because that's where I asked for the employee's expenses. In addition to the large number of kindergarten capacities, there is a great need for the employment of employees in these institutions in order to improve the implementation of pre-school education and education systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77648	Thank you very much. Amendment 214 of the Honored Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77649	The amendment is not accepted. Since 2006 where 210 thousand kunas have been provided for the equipment of the library and before that zero kunas in 2015 are systematically increased and the proposed amount is sufficient for the planned activities in this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77650	Dear Representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77651	I do not accept this cynical argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. So you know we're in a year of reading, at least you could symbolically accept this amendment to show that you're thinking of doing something in practice when you're already promoting books. In fact, I asked for a million kunas to increase the item of equipment for primary school libraries with mandatory literature and professional literature. The estimates are that a student needs to obtain a minimum half to two books per year, and we meet around 40% of these needs with current resources. Someone cynical will argue that the happiness of children in schools is getting less and less, so you don't have to single out so much for that item, and someone a little more promutuous might say that the list of booklets is flexible or made so that there are few mandatory titles just so that you don't have to spend so much money on equipping school libraries. Indeed, some of us are both adults in school and out - of - school libraries, and this is one of the key places in child development, and today when it comes to lecturing, children can at least rely on school libraries and their parents are forced to run around all over town to get those headlines that are on the mandatory list. Such a thing is inadmissible in a country that likes to declare even a year of reading. So I can't accept this argument of yours which, in itself, is not precise enough because you only said about your planned activities, and we can only guess who they are if there are them at all and I will ask of course that this amendment is voted on. Yeah, we want more bookies in school libraries because they serve it, and then there might be more kids in those same libraries, even in our homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77652	Amendment 215 of Honored Representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77653	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient for all planned activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77654	Honorable representative of the Anka Dark Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77655	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will continue where I stood with primary school education. So, according to data from the e-mother, the Ministry of Science and Education currently employs 47% of primary and 55% of secondary schools. What we are warned by the Psychological Spring Association is that the ministry employs interns every year. This means that every year a certain number of psychologists enter the school system, but a large number of them are equally every year and they come out because a very small number of schools post a traineeship competition. So, you've completely forgotten the psychologist at school. These last two years, they've shown us what our condition is, they've shown us both the state and the elementary schools. In high schools, it's just as dramatic. And instead of thinking about it a little bit, think about it and decide still on a model in which you will reasonably and rationally allow a certain number of students to hire you as cold as if we haven't had Covid or as if we haven't had him yet, as if we haven't had an earthquake you're very cold and somehow it doesn't seem to me with the slightest amount of empathy you refuse this amendment. What is important to say is that many children do not have access to psychological help at all. In Croatia, there is one psychologist for every 925 students. It seems to me that when it comes to this, it's really alarming, and this is one of your cold answers that tells me that you're not even thinking about this problem. Croatia and the world have faced a new way of life and this new way of life is also looking for some changes in your ministry and therefore I am also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77656	Thank you very much. Amendment 216 of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77657	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form, so as to read as follows: ‘In accordance with Article 38. Budget law, Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 23 and 4 in the specific section under division 0.80 The Ministry of Science and Education increases the capital project K578064 The Center for Education and Education Čakovec, source of funding 11, general income and receipts under the group of accounts 421 building facilities for the amount of 6 million kuna in 22, 2022 is 7 million and 900 thousand kuna. The funds to increase this activity shall be ensured by reducing expenditure in the special part of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia by 22nd with projections of 23rd and 4th in the framework of division 0.80 of the Ministry of Science and Education with the activities of A580037 public interurban transportation of pupils from secondary schools, source of funding 11, general income and receipt of a sub-group of accounts of 363 aid within the general budget for 6 million kuna in 22 years. It is 277 million 210 thousand 210 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77658	The Honorable Representative of Boška Ban Vlahek is this satisfying?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77659	Thanks because finally this appeal that I made to Prime Minister Plenkovic somehow came to light and I think that with today's day when the workers, parents, the guardians heard that these funds for the Center for Education and Education are their hearts full. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]] So thank you once again and I hope you will follow all this school development and build a new school building because, as I always point out, all of us ultimately connects the same common goal. It is that children with difficulties become children of opportunity and therefore thank you very much. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77660	Thank you very much. Amendment 217 of the Honored Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77661	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities to ensure the transport of secondary school students with developmental difficulties planned and implemented on the basis of detailed analysis, needs for each school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77662	Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77663	So I asked to increase the student standard item with special needs to an amount of 8 million 590 thousand kuna. Of course, it is one of the groups that requires our special attention and that, in general, when we talk about their needs any transportation, there have been classes many problems remain unresolved. One of the biggest problems is certainly finding people who will allow them to reach their primary school institutions and that they can be part of the teaching process inside. For example, assistants in teaching that should be monitored in quality education systems from home to school are one of the most difficult to find on the market, which is why. Because their standard is completely messy. So, apart from receiving exclusively contracts at a certain point in time when these tenders should have been known long ago whether they will work and what they need detailed education to be able to carry out such a demanding task, and what all the problems that have not been answered at all for years by ignoring these policies are what you will not single out for the transport of students with difficulties in development is just the continuation of such a policy, I think that as a society we could do a lot more for children with developmental difficulties, so I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77664	Thank you very much. Amendment 218 of MP Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77665	The amendment is not accepted, the funding for adult education has been increased over the last two years and is sufficient for planned activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77666	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 219 of the Honored Representatives of Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77667	The amendment is not accepted, the planned funds are sufficient independent of the proposed reduction, mainly due to the fact that the calculation of the necessary funds has been taken into account the continuous decline in the number of students in transport as well as the fact and conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the acceptance of the pilot project of free public transport of children of primary and secondary schools to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which will be financed from the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77668	Dr. Crescent. Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77669	I do not accept an explanation for two reasons, the first is that you have just boasted that the number of students in need of transportation is falling, which means that especially from our rural environments, people are moving out which is devastating and which shows that there is no systematic demographic policy in the Republic of Croatia and certainly is not something you should boast about in this situation. And secondly, the very idea of a pilot project by definition doesn't sound like something promising, sounds like something that might be a solution in the future. Well, given that I think that in this item, the items of inter-local public transport for students before you realize that pilot project and before you really introduce it as a standard for all students must not be spared. We already talked about this because I offered you a similar amendment on budget rebalancing, I gave you a concrete example of one small town Runovići in Dalmatia, which at that time was valued by the car carrier because they did not have enough resources to secure transportation for their students to school. And yes, this can happen because these funds are in principle not as secure as they should be and that's the problem they face in the rural environment. And because you don't solve it, it leads to what you say as a reason why you don't have to solve it, which is that there aren't enough students in those places and that they're moving out. I ask you not to turn your eyes as I speak, I think there are some standards of decent communication during the time we express our defence of the amendment, and you know it is otherwise our law and statute guaranteed the right as much as you are not pleased to listen to this reasoning, and I believe in your face that it really struck the essence. Yes, we want the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have an opportunity to live with equal quality standards in any of the smallest places in the Republic of Croatia. And to be theirs [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]] The students can drive to their schools. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]] Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77670	Thank you very much. No, let me tell you, it's not the statutes. It's the Rules of Procedure. Amendment 220 of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77671	The amendment is not accepted for capital investments in primary and secondary schools, the planned NPOO funds amounting to 2 billion 837 million kuna by the end of 2026 and public calls will be announced in the first half of the following year, in addition to those of the future multi-annual financial framework for the period 2021-2027. additional significant resources will be available for the various project activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77672	Dear representative of Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77673	Thank you very much. This time it is the primary school of Nedelisce, which is the largest municipality in Međimurje County, one of the largest in the Republic of Croatia. The building currently does not meet the standards in any way, and therefore it is necessary to build a new which is of course a expensive project so that it cannot be performed independently by the county or the municipalities as such. Since the implementation of such major projects is not possible in accordance with the announcements of the Ministry of Science and Education that all available sources of funds will be involved in the preparation of primary schools for the implementation of the day-long course, in the first place those in which it decides, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will continue to ask to vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77674	Thank you very much. And on Amendment 219, Mrs. Selak, shall we vote? Okay. Amendment 221 of MP Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77675	The amendment is not accepted, the ministry's strategic approach to improving the higher education system to the greatest extent possible use of available funds from eu funds. Up to now, over a billion and 500 million kuna have been invested in student homes, and new programming documents are under way for the next financial perspective, and we expect projects like this to be funded in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77676	Mr. Grmoya's not here, so we'll vote on the amendment. Another amendment to the same amendment to Amendment 222.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77677	The amendment is not accepted, the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities of the ministry in the amount of subsidies and quotas for the subsidized housing are provided full coverage of the cost of housing to students with earthquake-affected areas whose properties at the address of their residence are damaged in the earthquake and marked by category N1, N2 unusable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77678	And we will vote on this amendment. Amendment 223 of the Honored Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77679	The amendment is not accepted, the project in question was tasked with helping young scientists at a time when they were high interest rates in business banks, which is not the case today thanks to the continued growth of the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia and the reduction of interest rates for all of our citizens. The proposed funds are sufficient to cover all liabilities under a housing lending programme which ended in 2008
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77680	Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77681	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Namely, one of the few positive policies, housing policies that concerned attracting the most qualitative people to science, was precisely the low interest on apartments so that they could be taken care of, but according to their own choices, so that they could choose real estate, get low interest, and then start their life with salaries that were otherwise low for assistants and scientific recruits according to the standard, even average salaries. Unfortunately, this policy did not come across the continuity that I find very wrong because today, from the perspective of young people, the best educational personnel we want to keep in science and interest are still too high. What has turned around and what I find deeply wrong is a policy of selecting locations and often very unattractive buildings, and then these assistants or scientific recruits, our young educational staff, are forced to buy the same housing that someone else has chosen for them. How much of this location and policy is best shown by the fact that these same apartments were later due to the lack of interest of those who were meant to end up as prizes in our magazines at the prize games. So I think that this type of policy that will ensure housing of educational staff and thus attract the remaining young in science, which will also be the development engine of society should be encouraged, more money should be allocated to it, and a similar development policy should be further deepened and planned in the future. I'll ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77682	Time, thank you. Amendment 224. Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77683	The amendment is not accepted. In the context of equating access to higher education through a financial operation, scholarships to lower socio-economic status students for the 5th academic year are granted direct financial support to students through 10,000 state scholarships per year for lower socio-economic status students, and an additional 400 scholarships per year for special groups of students financed exclusively from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77684	We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment 225. It's the Bridge Representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77685	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77686	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77687	We don't accept the explanation. In fact, we asked for an additional 3 million kuna to be allocated to students of poor socio-economic status or to increase their scholarships and we will ask for the amendment to be voted on. We have been witnessing particularly discriminatory policies lately, according to students who must be affecting the weakest socioeconomic status. For example, in Croatia vaccination is not mandatory, it is not mandatory for everyone except for students who, unlike their professors at many universities, are forced to pay for the tests themselves because of the inconsistencies of the headquarters policy that this hot potato has transferred to universities and individual colleges. The students are the first now on the front line and the sacrificial lamb of your inconsistencies and discriminatory policies that are the least epidemiological. Therefore, there is an obvious blow to the student standard, there is a pressure that is inadmissible given that vaccination is not mandatory because it is anti-democratic to perform direct or indirect methods of coercion until it is prescribed by law. And there are students on strike right now, and most of them are students of a weaker socio-economic status. They're more about whether or not they're going to be vaccinated, they don't have a choice. This is just one example of how you, what your policies are towards students and one of the obvious and current reasons why this item must be increased so that they, like all of us privileged professors, have a choice which is both their constitutional and the law guaranteed by law because the law has not changed yet. Yes, I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77688	Thank you. Amendment 226. Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77689	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77690	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment 227 by the representative of Maria Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77691	The amendment is not accepted. The funds are sufficient for the participation of national experts in the working groups for the implementation of the Bologna Process and working groups of the European Commission related to higher education, national working groups and events aimed at improving the higher education system as well as for national implementation of projects and initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77692	Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77693	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, I asked for the development of higher education expenditure to be increased by 3 million kuna and for a total of 3 million 723 thousand kuna. I don't know if you're aware, but in many of our colleges, reform processes, or adaptations, have never been completed in practice to which system. So on paper we may have some systems such as 3+2 etc., but in practice they did not relive these reforms in order to really work especially at the level of the Erasmus project exchanges, and similarly we would have to adapt very much and raise that standard. Today we have a situation that nominally we get students from different countries who go according to Erasmus program, and then they have nothing to listen to, and they're not sure that they're going to get their points because there's no communication between our universities and those abroad, and then everything stays at the benefit of teachers. Therefore, this amount that you have foreseen for the development of high science and education is miserable, and I believe that in practice we would have one system that is open to all and that can be used in the way it is designed so that there will be borders throughout Europe when we talk about education we need to allocate a lot more resources. I'll ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77694	Thank you very much. Amendment 228. The Center and Voice Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77695	The amendment is not accepted. The draft budget proposes an increase of 55% compared to the previous year, which is a sufficient amount to provide financial support for regular activities and scientific and scientific professional associations, and the development of programmes by... science. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77696	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77697	Dearlywed, by this proposal of our amendment, we have therefore proposed an increase in the position of supporting scientific associations and programmes for the popularisation of science. Why do we think that's important right now? So trust in science and its understanding in Croatia is unfortunately on very low branches. So it is not specificity only of Croatia. Unfortunately, it's a trend almost all over the world. Especially worrying about the situation in which we are fighting the pandemic of a new virus when it's more important than ever that science and scientific knowledge approach the general public as much as possible. The problem we have is particularly visible here and in discussions about whether or not it is worth the vaccination. We therefore propose to strengthen scientific support for scientific associations and programmes for the popularisation of science in the budget by a million kunas. We'll ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77698	Thank you. Amendment 229 of MP Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77699	The amendment is not accepted. The funds in the state budget for programme funding of public and higher schools are further planned through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan as part of a single full reform package related to higher education and science. So an additional 490 million kuna is planned which will be additionally smaller for programme funding and will further become a possibility for all those who will conclude under the new funding model of the programme contracts to finance capital investments for the needs of their higher universities or public institutes of 450 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77700	Dear representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77701	Thank you. In any case, the overall separation for science in Croatia is completely insufficient. So the European average is about 2.1% of GDP and in Croatia only 1.1%. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan will certainly not cross that magic number. We asked for an increase in the allocation for the programme financing of public higher schools because the funds provided for in the 2022 budget are already lower by 30 million kuna, meaning from previous years, and foreseen by the Government's decision on programme financing of public and higher universities in the Republic of Croatia. But this original amount, which was present, had to be further increased in order to ultimately be achieved among other things, and this is what we keep repeating fully means the release of participation of all students at public universities in Croatia. So, it is necessary to introduce free education for end-users at all levels, meaning from kindergartens to PhD, and I would definitely agree with a colleague who said that what we are witnessing in public space is as a movement against vaccination, a reflection of HDZ's policy for decades, and according to higher education in Croatia, although such messages, anti-vaxer messages are also heard from some of the highly educated. They're very good at catching roots with us precisely because of the devastation of education and then the skeptics according to any science and science that's being propagated by HDZ. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77702	Thank you. Amendment 230 of the Honored Representatives of Marija Selak-Raspadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77703	The amendment is not accepted. As part of this activity, funds are planned to cover costs related to the production, printing and equipment of doctoral dissertation up to a maximum of 3500 kuna, as well as funds for co-financing of tuition costs for public, higher education employees at the associate post of assistant who are required to enrol in law, regularly attend after graduate university studies, doctoral studies, and all in accordance with collective contract obligations. And this year, the funds were planned in a larger amount, but they were not implemented and it would be enough for next year as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77704	Dear representative Selak-Raspudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77705	We'll get an explanation and I'll ask that the amendment be voted on. Namely, what's the matter? I asked to increase scholarships and scholarships for doctoral studies, at least add another 800,000 kuna to the planned 700 000 kuna. Namely, the scholarship system, the doctorate in Croatia almost doesn't exist at all. Yes, you've only planned funds here for those who will be in that privileged position to become assistants at colleges. However, many of them, let's say I paid half of my doctoral studies, and I earned it myself, and that was 10,000 kuna a semester for you. Who can afford that? Not everyone enters the higher education system immediately, not everyone is privileged to be assistants, not only to become half of their doctoral studies, but ever. And why would such frames be cut off if they were good enough for free doctoral studies? It is absolutely amazing to me that developed countries like Finland can provide almost all free PhDs, and that Croatia has never developed a system of scholarship of doctoral studies that would be available to those outside the institutions. So, quality students who haven't been able to get a job in college, and maybe one day they'll get a job, and maybe they won't. But with that knowledge, the Republic of Croatia will contribute elsewhere. I'm sure we should encourage that, too. Why we never opened up in this direction remains an open question, but its consequences are that, we all feel socially because because of the fact that doctoral studies have lost a lot of quality students who have never had the privilege of deciding on this most important step in terms of the highest education. Yeah, I'll ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77706	Thank you. Amendment of 231st Representative Sanja Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77707	The amendment is not accepted. Funds in the state budget for programme funding as I just spoke secured and planned in the amount of 490 million kuna. In addition, it is planned that all those who conclude the programme will certainly have the opportunity to apply an additional 450 million kuna for infrastructure needs, and the project that you propose, with which we are very well acquainted with the Navy hospital, the University of Juraj Dobrila in Pula is already largely financed from... the mechanism and we are in negotiations with the university on possible additional needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77708	Dear representative Sanja Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77709	I'm glad you're in negotiations, and I hope that the negotiations and the successes end exactly because of the fact that nothing really means anything to us from the IPO. You know it well. There is actually a local policy that has jumped into an institution that is actually the founding state and has given it the EU funds of as much as 13 million kunas and is now additionally calling another 30 million kunas originally designed for the development of ITU projects in the urban area of the City of Pula. However, local policy I repeat here recognized that actually the university as such as some sort of knowledge transfer centre to the private sector, industry, according to the public sector should get these funds. And I really hope that someone in the ministry will recognize that it will provide 6.9 million kuna because otherwise, you know, it won't be possible to withdraw those funds. So it's going to be 45 million kunas. And I have to admit, it's really amazing to me that this incoordination of the ministries themselves is in place. So, on the one hand, the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds lowers those funds from EU funds, prays that the funds are withdrawn, and on the other hand, we have the Ministry of Science and Education which does not co-finance EU funds projects. So from the scientific community and higher education activities, we have already warned several times that what we need in the system of science and higher education is also some kind of fund for co-financing of EU projects such as local self-government units worth 750 million kuna. I think that such a thing should enable us in the system of science and higher education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77710	Thank you very much. Amendment 232 by Parliamentarian Sanja Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77711	The amendment is not accepted with the answer as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77712	Dear Representative Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77713	University libraries are actually institutions that are always in some kind of air-free space. When we speak to the Ministry of Science and Education, look, we finance salaries and all that, but it should actually be under the Ministry of Culture. When we address the funds of the Ministry of Culture they say so look you are funding from the division of the Ministry of Science and Education. So, university libraries not only in Pula, with the exception of this in Zagreb university libraries are today simply handed over their facilities infrastructure devoted to decay. So in Pula, we face in particular a building that is monumental, which was built in 1908 as a state-run folk school where exactly 314 thousand book volumes are used by citizens of the entire Istrian county. We have addressed the co-financing of the energy reconstruction project to the Ministry of Science and Education, no funds. We spoke to the Ministry of Culture, no funds. We even responded to the call of the Environmental Protection Fund and the energy efficiency where millions of kuna were provided, 10 million kuna, but you know what model? Of course, the only one that exists obviously in force for EU funds in Croatia is the fastest finger model, so projects that have come forward for the restoration of cultural heritage according to the methodology of the fastest finger, the call opened at 9.00, closed at 9.01 minutes. Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77714	Are you asking for a vote? ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendment of 233th Representative Sanja Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77715	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation like the previous one. We are familiar with the difficulties in which the Philosophy and Faculty of Educational Sciences are located and we are having natural talks with the administration of the University and we are looking for solutions to see and from which sources to finance it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77716	Dear representative Sanja Radolovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77717	Thanks again. So the first thing I have to say is, all the amendments I've been putting up with where I've been removing the items, I haven't been taking them down at random. Here I propose a reduction in the maintenance of the customs administration's information system because it amounts to 127 million kunas without any explanation, which is why it will be so much money to maintain the customs administration's information system. The same principle and model is also being implemented to inform the Tax Administration in this year's budget. It is indeed obvious that this affair will be spilled from the ministry to the ministry but then. So, the Faculty of Philosophy in Pula is protected culturally well owned by the University of Jure Dobrila in Pula. It was built in 1907 and is under strict conservative protection. The same story as with the University Library, we addressed the Resoring Ministry, the Ministry of Culture and the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency. What I appeal to you is that, as a resolute ministry, you establish some kind of coordination with both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds because we are already on several occasions and as a parliamentary committee that constantly mentions there on the Committee on the EU Funds and on the Committee on Education that again in the operational programmes high education does not really stand anywhere on the issue of restoring our cultural heritage, and so on our entire teaching, sports infrastructure that we lack. The only thing that has been put in place as in the previous one has been copied from previous operational programmes is that investment priority for scientific infrastructure. But I repeat, the system of science and higher education is not just science. So we're missing the restoration of cultural heritage, we're missing and rebuilding the teaching infrastructure, we're missing and rebuilding the sports infrastructure we don't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77718	And we're missing the same vote? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendment of 234th Representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77719	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation like the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77720	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 235. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77721	The amendment is not accepted. A sufficient amount for regular financing has been provided and, in addition, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan has provided a direct allocation of 100 million kuna 650 thousand 73 kuna for the Croatian Seismological Service project, which will finance the supply of seismograph equipment, accelographers and other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77722	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa, a respected representative of Pulak please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77723	Your Honor, here is no matter what your argument is, we ask that this amendment be voted upon. So we asked to increase the value of the position by regular... Seismological services. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the interest of this ministry, should we not especially stress when we were witnessing earthquakes? In this budget, the government has proposed a reduction in the said item within the budget, and here we are looking for an increase and we are asking for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77724	Amendment 236 of Honored Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77725	The amendment is not accepted. Through these activities is financed the cost of tuition for assistants employed at public scientific institutes, as well as the cost of manufacturing and equipment of doctoral dissertation, and the planned funds are sufficient as I had already explained for higher schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77726	Dr. Crescent. Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77727	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. We talked earlier about doctoral studies, and now we're talking about postgraduate scholarships as such, and I asked that item to increase by 545 thousand kuna, that it now amounts to a minimum round million kuna. I'm not going to repeat everything I said before, which is that we really need highly educated staff and that we need to encourage young people and allow them to join postgraduate and doctoral studies. This system has never been developed in Croatia, there is still the possibility that you can change your mind, so that by at least this kind of separation for these items you can encourage a few of the best to stay in these systems. You like to boast about yourself in the area, you like to stress that you will invest in it, which is one of the key provisions and in what you as the Ministry of Science and Education have offered in the recovery and resilience plan. However, I will remind you that these are the ones most difficult to keep in the system of science and education because they are offered numerous opportunities in the business world outside of it. And that is why they should be able to have free postgraduate and doctoral studies for all those who are not yet employed, who we hope will eventually be part of that same system. I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77728	Thank you. Amendment 237 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77729	The amendment is not accepted. The project is a project financed from the European Economic Area, a financial mechanism for development in '14-21. The total amount of grants is 3 million 529 thousand 412 euros, and that amount cannot be increased because it is the same as the grant contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77730	Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77731	So I asked to increase that amount by a million kuna to improve equal opportunities in education for students with developmental difficulties. I understand if you can't do it because of the project's limitations, but when it comes to such things, I think you should clearly indicate them within the budget itself because we can't know that you are limited by such an article, so it turns out there's no point in proposing amendments to certain items. So I'm asking you next time to make a budget plan in a way that we can have this kind of information available. I will now accept your argument and will not ask that this amendment be voted on, but here I must accept your reasoning instead of having on paper the facts that tell me that the funds are planned and limited by some project which is why I cannot provide additional resources for this extremely important item, which is equal opportunities in education for students with developmental difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77732	Thank you. Amendment 237 has been withdrawn. Amendment 238 to MP Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77733	The amendment is not accepted. The funds increased compared to 2019, in the '20s. and in '21. All expert meetings planned with the work programme and the catalogue of expert meetings of the Education and Education Agency were held. Given the working conditions during the duration of the pandemic caused by the Covid-19 virus and the restrictions on the number of participants at live gatherings in the '22s. It's planned to be too heavy in... the environment, which reduces the necessary resources for their maintenance, which means that the number of meetings will be able to increase as well as the scope of professional training. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77734	We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment 239. Green-left block representatives' club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77735	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the implementation of activities related to the implementation of content and activities related to civic education and education in primary schools have been sufficiently provided for several activities within the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77736	On behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, Honorable representative Gamulin Raukar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77737	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We don't accept your explanation. So for many years now, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have publicly advocated the introduction of civic education into our schools as a mandatory subject because the lack of systematic civil education education results in the unpreparedness of our young people for, for active participation, participation in democratic processes, which we consider necessary. We consider it necessary for our children to know and learn the system of democratic and human freedoms and rights, as well as the mechanisms of their protection, from the right to personal dignity to the right to an appropriate standard of living, to learn that we have the right to freedom of thought, speech, association, to have the right to work and the right to pay for the job done, to learn that we are all equal to the law, that we have the right to be different and different, that no one has the right to torture or humiliate us. So they need to learn that there is a trio of authorities in Croatia, such as that the judiciary is independent of politics as well as the state's attorney's office within that same judiciary. So they need to learn the basic democratic principles and it is necessary to build a better, more solid and fair society. The introduction of civic education is the first imperative, so we stay with this amendment and ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77738	Thank you. Amendment 240. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77739	The amendment is not accepted. State grant funds are planned in a sufficient amount in relation to the number of applications and the number of students who meet the conditions for allocation, in addition to these regular scholarships, the ministry plans in the future financial envelope through the ISF plus to provide scholarships for all deficiting teaching professions to increase the interest in enrollmenting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77740	Honorable representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to admit that your indifference in reading the reasons is so much that I didn't understand anything, so I'm going to say, it's known that there's an apparent high percentage of unprofessional science classes, especially mathematics. We know that we miss math professors both in primary and secondary schools, which is contrary to the declared goal of raising natural and mathematical literacy in NPOO. It is therefore necessary to launch this scholarship programme in order to increase the interest of those studies and to label and strengthen the human resources of the education system for mathematics and science. Have a good one. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77742	Thank you. Amendment 241. It's the Bridge Representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77743	The amendment is not accepted, as we have already spoken in the NPOO, and it provides for a billion and 620 million kuna to create infrastructure assumptions for the greater coverage of children in early preschool education, and a whole range of other measures and activities to be financed alongside NPOO and from the next VFO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77744	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77745	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. We are back on a NPOO wildcard that will solve all our problems just don't know when or what specific time it will solve, but it will generally be used for some infrastructure projects in this case of kindergarten. What I was looking for was very specific and could now, with a clear and unambiguous promise, increase the quality of life on an island, the island of Korcula. Namely, I asked for a new set of reconstructions to be added to the VAT “Bambi” fig tree, which costs a million kunas, so total expenditures amount to 105 million 228 thousand 960 kuna. So they were asked to provide funds for the reconstruction of DV "Bambi" in the town of Smokvica, which would certainly improve the quality of life on the island. Namely, this isn't just like the kindergarten building was built in the 1950s in a decay and it needs an emergency reconstruction. I think that such things should be of concern to this budget and to our government, and that we can't do all the specific problems of our citizens, and revitalising the island is certainly our priority to all of us, at least that's what we were talking about when we talked about the Law in the islands, we can't just switch to this magical NPOO, so I'm going to ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77746	Thank you. Amendment 242. It's the Bridge Representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77747	The amendment is not accepted, the proposed project is not financed through the Ministry but through the Central Office for Demography and Youth and we suggest that it is applied to their location and call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77748	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77749	So we asked for this amendment to provide funds for the construction of 10 modern playgrounds in our poorest municipalities of the Dalmatian hinterland, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Knin County and in the places of Shopot, Krushevo, Clean Velika, Lozovac, Sonković, Konjevrate, Cysta Provo, Blato na Cetina, Lovrec and Zagvozd. Although undeveloped parts of our country have slowly started to shut down in recent years and there are fewer newborn children, and there are more and more evictions of young families, this does not mean that we should not invest in those who remain in this area and create better conditions for future generations. Children living in rural and undeveloped areas have at least the same minimum conditions for carefree and safe play as children in cities and more developed places. The value of this investment is the amount to be provided in the state budget of 2 million kuna, so we will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77750	Thank you. Followed by the 12 amendments to the IDS Representatives Club, the first amendment is 243. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77751	The amendment is not accepted, as we have already explained several times, the construction of kindergartens, reconstructions and equipment under existing regulations is in the jurisdiction of local self-government units in addition to all of this because of reform activities that are related to the full educational reform of a billion and 620 million kuna will be on a public call to be called in the next 60 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77752	Honorable representative Katarina Nemet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77753	Thank you. The demographic scale of construction of the “Vinež” DV in Labin would be 6 million kuna and Vinež is one of the three largest settlements in the area of the city of Labin nearby is the fast growing business zone of Vinež where over a thousand people work. Therefore, the plan is to build a kindergarten, we felt that this amendment was necessary in terms of the co-operation of the unit of local self-government and state. We're not happy with your explanation and we're looking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77754	Thank you. Amendment 244. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77755	The amendment is not accepted, within the NPOO the planned amount of 2 billion 280 million kuna to finance such projects for the concept of one-way teaching or all-day teaching and will be awarded in an invitation to be called in the first half of the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77756	On behalf of the IDS Club, respected representative Marin Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77757	Your Honor, Secretary of State. We are looking for a vote of course on the amendment, we believe that 20 million kuna should be allocated here in order to bring down some of the existing primary school, build up and reconstruct the already existing to create minimum technical conditions and enable the school to function in the best possible system. I repeat, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77758	You, Amendment 245 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77759	The amendment is not accepted. It's the same thing as the last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77760	Dear Representative Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77761	This is about seven million kunas related to the Savicena primary school, unfortunately we can see that there is no hearing. To say that there will be money from the Recovery and Resistance Fund we see it all running together, we are not very optimistic, therefore today for St Nicholas for children of bad news from Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77762	Are you asking for a vote? Amendment 246. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77763	The amendment is not accepted. I think it's excellent news that we've secured 4.5 billion kunas to be spent over the next 4.5 years throughout the Republic of Croatia. We're not talking about individual projects, so everyone will have a chance to report it. That's great news for our children, so here we are today at St. Nicholas's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77764	Dear Representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77765	It's great since it's been a year since we've opened any competitions, really great. At this rate, it will certainly be much better, the envelope will pass, and we'll see what we've used, hopefully the fund managers won't leave as one has already gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77766	Amendment 247. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77767	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77768	Dear Representative Deus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77769	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State here is about Vladimir Gortan Elementary School in Žminj, Zminj with several thousand inhabitants, full of children, full of young people and where it would be a good help to help them do what they want, and this is also a multi-purpose sports hall, outdoor playgrounds, upgrades, school upgrades, reconstruction. For decades now, Zminj has actually been with its young people, with elementary schoolers growing the heritage of the region, keeping the customs and indeed one environment that would be good for the state to help a little because the municipality as such cannot find 50 million kuna itself. And regardless of these competitions you mention and recently there were results for kindergartens so they didn't exactly show up best, many of them remained in Croatia below the line, I think even from Istria passed none in the last, in the last competitions. So, if we expect this in such situations a little more, a little more finer, a little more help, it doesn't have to be an entire amount, but to help so that it goes over the years to try to do, we're looking for a vote of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77770	Thank you, I apologize for saying Deus, Daus, I apologize Deus day. Amendment 248. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77771	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77772	Honorable representative Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77773	Thank you. It's about an amendment worth 34 billion kuna. Vladimir Nazor Vrsar primary school, upgrade, and reconstruction of the existing school building with the construction of a two-part sports hall of the school. We're not satisfied with the argument we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77774	Thank you. Amendment 249 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77775	The amendment is not accepted. Here's another one I'd like to point out is that it's usually the authority of the founders of counties and cities. The government recognized this as a great potential, providing 2.5 billion kuna to be spent over the next 4.5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77776	Honorable representative Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77777	Thank you for your explanation. The word is the primary school – Scuola elemente Mate Balota Buje, we believe that the funds we have proposed are necessary and we are asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77778	Thank you. Amendment 250. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77779	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77780	Dear Representative Emil Daus, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77781	Thank you very much. It's about Peter Studenco Elementary School in Kanfanar in this amendment. Here in Kanfanar, the example is that not at all on the political line I propose amendments, in Kanfanar there is a real man, he is a good even member of the party that in the ruling majority of this Parliament and this 20 million kuna is planned, the very amount of funds for the reconstruction of Peter Studenec Elementary School and who, even before I don't repeat, we expected to find at least a million to help in the first phase and start with the reconstruction of the school itself in Kanfanar. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77782	Thank you. Amendment 251. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77783	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77784	Honorable representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77785	It's a little bit here, but it should still have a little more hearing. And two years ago, I explained the same amendment here in the assembly. The school and professional school of Jurija Dobrile in Pazin is the legal follow-up of the first Croatian high school in Istria. And it is not without reason her name Jurija Dobrila by the father of the Croatian People's Revival in Istria and perhaps we are the more motivated and all of the Istrian Croats who are proud of that institution, but also to put all of this aside, it is one of the most respected high school institutions in the Republic of Croatia and for several years has been in the proposal for amendments of 10 million kuna to help upgrade the school and to succeed in one of the most respected Croatian secondary schools, the gymnasium finally implements classes in the morning, in one shift. I appeal if there is any possibility of really helping this is a high school of pride throughout Croatia. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77786	Thank you. Amendment 252. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77787	The amendment is not accepted. I stress the existing regulations of the founder's jurisdiction in question. The ministry will comply with the reform processes in the period '21-'27. seek to enable the financing of EU educational infrastructure with the aim of raising spatial and other educational work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77788	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honored Representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77789	Thank you very much. Eugen Kumičić's vocational school in Rovinj is the only school in Istria County that educates students for the profession of plumbers, so the masters who are increasingly missing are among the few who educate students in the professions by a unique model of education in engineering and electrical engineering. In fact, the desire is to separate the engineering, shipbuilding, metallurgy and electrical engineering sectors, given that they are all interested in deficits. It would certainly be good for the Istria area to have another grade department with deficiting interests, detachment of special engineering, especially electrical engineering as recommended by HZZ, they are plumbers, electrician, electroinstaller that is wanted to be introduced, so the need for space is absolutely necessary. As far as the Eugen Kumičić vocational school in Rovinj is concerned, the amount in the 12 million kuna amendment for reconstruction, upgrade and upgrade of the existing school building is foreseen. It's equipment and environmental planning. We're looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77790	Thank you. Amendment 253. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77791	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77792	Dear Representative Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77793	Dear Secretary of State, this amendment wanted to ensure adequate accommodation for the pulse high school and music school of Ivan Matetić Rongov and schools of applied art and design in Pula to continue the works of reconstruction, adaptation, upgrade and upgrade of the existing school building. We predicted the establishment of a social centre in Pula in the so-called "Pula". the yellow school where the three schools are currently located. The project should be implemented in 3 stages. The value of this amendment is 35 million kuna, which, of course, we won't get. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77794	Thank you very much. And here's the 12th in this series of IDS amendments, Amendment 254.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77795	The amendment is not accepted with an explanation like the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77796	Dear Representative Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77797	Yes, also in this amendment under the Ministry of Science and Education budget, we wanted to add a new position for the regional competence centre in Pula for the accommodation of the tourism and catering and trade schools to provide funds for reconstruction, upgrade and upgrade of the existing building, as well as for the equipment and arrangement of the environment. The value of the amendment is 20 million kuna. We believe that Istria County as the leader of Croatian tourism, as someone who makes huge funds in this particular activity deserves such a serious and quality regional centre so that not only Istria together, but Croatia is further positioned on Europe's tourist map, but there is no state for that. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77798	The 255th Amendment submitted by the Center and Voice Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77799	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Science and Education shall support the implementation of research related to public health challenges carried out and financed by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, on the basis of which recommendations and guidelines are prepared and carried out preventive activities related to the specific and public health challenges facing children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77800	Honorable representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77801	Dearlywed, this amendment has asked for a new position to be added to the Ministry of Education to explore the outcomes of a 450,000 kuna health programme. What's this about? I don't think your explanation has affected the meaning of this amendment well. After a joint session of the 3 Assembly Committee on Sexual Disturbation, we heard from the Minister that the Ministry of Science and Education will launch a study on the results of the adoption of materials from among the topic of health, particularly on topics related to sexual education and sexual violence. Since we do not see this item in the ministry's budget, we have proposed this amendment to introduce this specific position, which would finance this research, whether it is on a representative sample of primary and secondary school students, their teachers, expert associates on the level of knowledge adopted in the area, because to this day we do not know how these programmes from among the topics in question, health issues have been adopted and with what level. Thus, it should be carried out by independent institutions, scientists from universities or scientific institutes, and should also collect in research the needs of students, but also educational workers and schools related to the subject. So here's what we're asking for is an amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77802	Thank you. Amendment 256 of Honored Representatives Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77803	The amendment is not accepted. The solution to the issue of menstrual poverty will be co-ordinated in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Central State Office for Demography and Youth and, if necessary, any other resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77804	Thank you. We will vote on the amendment to Amendment 257 of Honored Representative Cynthia Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77805	The amendment is not accepted. The basic elements of the digitisation of all schools are covered by a second phase e-school project financed by EU funds. Carnet is in charge, our institution for the digitization of pre-ternational education and every county is treated equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77806	Dear Mr. Hajdash Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77807	Thank you. So, I'm going to ask for a vote on that amendment. So, not every county is treated equally, so this is about an amount of 100,000 kuna, which is actually, what to say, a drop in the sea, peanuts at the level of the 165 billion kuna budget, probably so 100 thousand kuna for part of the hybrid teaching, to invest in the information equipment for one elementary school in the Bedekovčina municipality... Brestovci Orehovic with Stjepan Radić, so bad, bad. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77808	Thank you very much. Amendment 258 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77809	The amendment is not accepted. For such projects within the NPOO, an amount of 2 billion and 280 million kuna is planned according to the public call proposition that will follow in the first half of next year. All power will be applied to the needs listed in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77811	Yeah, and that's where I'm gonna ask for a vote. So as I said most of your story of the government of the Republic of Croatia is about the recovery plan is about how we report, report, report, we know how successful we are. failure to use EU funds. So this is about OS "Ljudevit Gaj" Krapina, so Krapina is like the center of Krapina-Zagorska County in the upgrade of the school and there is actually looking for an amount of 5 million kuna to raise the digital competences of all students and teachers and through complete digitisation of the educational process. I would remind people that OS "Ljudevit Gaj" is another school by the number of students in Krapina-Zagorje County, currently attended by 582 students and the school was actually one of the oldest schools built in Krapina-Zagorje County in northern Croatia, so it was built in 1911, and it was spatially limited, and it would actually upgrade the space that was in line with the needs of the students. And I repeat, money is being removed from the Ministry of Finance, Administration and Management, material expenditure, expenses for services with 5 million kuna because that's what we do. does good work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to get back into some kind of an affair software. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77812	Amendment of 259th legislator Sinisha Hajdas Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77813	The amendment is not accepted, it is similar to this amendment we spoke earlier, so the basic elements of the digitisation of all schools are 100% covered by the second phase of the e-school project that is implemented in collaboration with the CARNET Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77814	As for the previous two arguments, I say that sometimes it is good to have an item in the budget, especially in terms of the entire level of regional self-government. digitisation of the primary and secondary schools of Krapina-Zagorje County and again I help you and Mr. Andrej Plenkovic because I again download 5 million kuna material expenditures, i.e. Costs of services so that software three doesn't happen again. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77815	Thank you. Please just let me give you my word for anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77816	How?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77817	Let me give you my word nothing just to justify my existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77818	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77819	It's all right. The amendment of the 260th Honored Representative of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77820	The amendment is not accepted, such amendments have been very large, meaning capital investments in the field of primary education 2 billion and 280 million kuna available in the next 4.5 years, the spread of a public call to which they will be able to apply in the first half of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77821	Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77822	Thank you very much. So Petrovsko is one small municipality in the former community of Krapina municipality that is one of the primary schools that has no sports hall, so you wouldn't believe the chief is from HDZ, but right now it doesn't matter and here is actually looking for 10 million kuna in favour of the school i.e. in favour of Krapina-Zagorje County for the start of a project to build a school sports hall for which there is a building permit. But I repeat, maybe really through some of these projects they can come forward, but I'm still looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77823	Thank you. And another amendment to the respected representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, Amendment 261.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77824	The amendment is not accepted, this is about kindergarten, the amendment is an acceptable operation so a billion kuna 620 million kuna will be called in the next 60 days to which all municipalities and cities will be able to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77825	Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77826	Thank you. I'm also going to ask for a vote, and it's not just about building or building kindergartens, but it's actually a reconstruction. The re-purpose of the section of the House of Culture building in the Municipality of Hrasćina which actually borders the Varazdin County, one small rural municipality has a thousand and a half inhabitants and in fact the amount of 9 million kuna would be sufficient for the whole project. I'm asking for a vote, but that's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77827	Thank you. Amendment 262 of the Honorable Representative, God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77828	The amendment is not accepted, for the reasons that, in accordance with the information available on the construction of the school in question, the founder of the school is mostly financed, on the other hand, a reduction of 22 million kuna to the activities of A77046 would lead to the inability to carry out the commitments undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77829	Dear Representative Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77830	Your Honor, Secretary of State. There's... a finding, it's ongoing it's not ongoing, and you're using what's between my information, so you don't know if it's ongoing, but it's convenient to say it's ongoing, so then we won't comment further because then the amendment isn't necessary. Is it ongoing or not ongoing? You don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77831	I know, I can't suit you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77832	No, you said according to your information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77834	Now, please, I'm begging you. [[Upadica Mamic: Information in the ministry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77835	Please, we can't do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77836	The amendment we suggested was that one-way teaching be introduced in the town of Koprivnica in the end, so here I am asking you to check your information thoroughly. And I'm not going to say that I believe you because you haven't shown yourself so far I don't think you're personal now, but I think your ministry should trust you, but we had nothing else to do but ask you to check again by tomorrow. Of course, we will ask for a vote on this amendment, but I think that the town of Koprivnica and then all other municipalities and cities in Croatia should, in accordance with your plan, provide a one-way course and in this direction go this amendment, so I would ask you to accept it. If you don't want to accept it, I ask you to vote on it, and in the meantime, you check your consistent information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77837	Amendment 263 of Honored Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77838	The amendment is not accepted, the means of carrying out activities related to the provision of psychosocial support to primary and secondary school students are provided in sufficient amounts at several different positions of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77839	We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment 264 of the same agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77840	The amendment is not accepted, the means to implement activities related to the implementation of civil education and education activities in primary schools are ensured in several different positions of this draft budget as well as through partner projects financed from eu funds in cross-sectoral cooperation with state administration bodies and public institutions and civil society organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77841	Since MP Vosovac is not here and we will vote on this amendment. Amendment of 265th Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77842	The amendment is not accepted, the proposed funds for the implementation of extracurricular activities related to technical culture programmes are sufficient for planned activities in 2022. The ministry continuously co-finances extracurricular activities in primary schools with several different positions within the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77843	Thank you. I'm sorry, the reading of the esteemed representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77844	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And fellow Secretary of State, the funds are enough, I've heard that a lot of times, but when we talk about STEM, when we talk about technical culture, when we talk about a lot of things within the education system, that's far enough. Keep in mind colleagues and colleagues still few present here, when we talk about technical culture it means 35 hours a year. That's one hour a week. So he's 35 weeks old. What does that mean? What does that mean? That our children will literally know what a light bulb looks like, and that's about the range of that technical culture. If we're talking about STEM, if we're talking about kids who are going to study technical schools, if we're talking about students who are going to study technical sciences, then it's not enough, it's defeatingly bad. And we can well understand that curricula modern require perhaps less technical culture although I would disagree with the teaching program, but then the minimum of what we can provide is beyond the teaching activities that involve technical culture. So for those who want to develop in that direction that they can. With means zero kuna in this budget if you think that's enough, I don't think. If you think 200 kuna per school is a year for out-of-school activities I'm talking about primary schools enough, I don't think that's enough for both technical culture and for everyone else outside of teaching activities that should be encouraged by the state. Therefore, if we want a STEM state, if we want a STEM student, if we want a technically conscious youth, then we need to support this amendment and therefore ask for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77845	Thank you, time. Amendment of 266th MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77846	The amendment is not accepted. For many years, the ministry has been working to bring the education system into line with the needs of the labour market. To this end, a number of activities and initiatives are carried out to collect data on the employability of graduates and to explore the preconditions for the development of a European system of monitoring of persons with qualifications in vocational and higher education. In addition, further use of European funds during the programming period '21-'27 is foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77847	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77848	Thank you very much, Vice President. A key year has been working on this for years, but we haven't seen the results in years. The Croatian qualification framework is a system that needs to be developed for years, it grows just to meet the needs of the same market and not only of the markets but also of the users, let’s say that to all citizens and citizens who need to use it and who should be able to value their informal education through it. But I don't see that progress, at least I don't see it. Now, you correct me if I'm wrong. And as I said, I come from that system. So the National Qualifications Framework doesn't fulfil the tasks we've given it. And the assignments are precisely what an evaluation outside of institutional education means. There we can talk about volunteering, there we can talk about extracurricular activities, there we can talk about skills acquired informally, let's say through the reconnaissance alliance, etc., but the fact is that this system didn't live properly, that we don't value it properly, that employers don't recognize it, and that's what the ministry's job should be. So we're giving that added value that employers recognize, that it's some added value on the labour market because that's actually the point. That's why I think five million kunas would be some minimum amount that we could work to really achieve these goals that I don't see achieved and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77849	Amendment of 267th Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77850	Here, thank you very much. So the amendment is not accepted. We have already had that same amendment several times in accordance with the Luttrian Fund Regulation, it predefined the amount regardless of how much we planned. If less is achieved, less will be spent, if more is achieved, there is a possibility of spending more. As the assistants continue to be very important, an important priority of government and ministry we have provided for this school year a new project and agreed on more than 171 million kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77851	Dear Mr. Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77852	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll just join my colleagues and colleagues before me who said we didn't think it was enough. Practice will show, of course. I hope the funds you predicted are enough. These assistants in class aren't just someone we need and we have as help or as a temporary measure. This should become something more permanent to them than children with developmental difficulties can achieve and follow, let's just say, the requirements of teaching that are tailored to them anyway, but if we want to integrate them into classes that attend under the usual programme, if we want to achieve that moment of social integration, then these assistants are very important. Then they are vital actually because a teacher in a class of 25 students if you have customized programs, if you have special programs or individual programs, can hardly focus on some students with developmental difficulties, and therefore these assistants are of exceptional importance. They talked about it before, some students are used to their assistants, and it is important to keep them in the system, and it is also important for these very helpers who, of course, do not take the job as temporary. So I think again this symbolic amount of 5 million kuna would certainly be important here. But we will see what practice will show, we will see and evaluate to the next rebalancing that will be very soon for my opinion what and how it will go, but regardless I would ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77853	Thank you very much. Amendment of 268th Representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77854	The amendment is not accepted. So rebuilding the school in Vrpolje near Sibenik as well as all other projects will be able to apply to an invitation that will be called in the first half of next year in the amount of 2 billion 280 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77855	We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment of 269th Honorable Representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77856	The amendment shall not be accepted with reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77857	Thank you very much. And we will vote on this amendment. And here's the last in a series of amendments to your ministry, respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic, Amendment 270.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77858	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77859	Dear representative Marina Opačak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77860	Thank you very much. Do I hear from you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77861	I'll talk to you later, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77862	Well, I must say that I am truly disappointed that this amendment has not been accepted, even if here is some kind of diminished means because I believe that you could at least partially accept the funds that would be sufficient for the basic, emergency and most basic renewal. As for the school that is subject to the amendment, we had the opportunity to see it in the media with headlines where children and teachers believe it or not in the 21st century they hunt rodents. I believe that the proposed amount is miserable compared to the huge spending in the state budget, and I really believed here that you would recognize the importance of this investment, which would provide the means to complete reconstruction... The “Ljudevita Gaja” OS in Sisčica, which would enable children to study in an adequate space and which would meet the necessary conditions for education and education. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what I really can't understand is that the government boasts about the Slavonia project while parallelly refusing to invest in the restoration of the school in Slavonia. As I was saying, the school is in a bad state, and I'm going to mention that the walls are making noises, that bricks are falling off the chimney, and additionally from the roof is threatening the plank, which is enough to say how dangerous the schools are to stay and that these conditions can't meet the needs of adequate school stay, and other than that, there's a lack of county action on applications for energy restoration projects, here's now the role of the state. I think these kids deserve 21st century school, too. I therefore request a vote and I particularly appeal to the representatives of Brod-Posavina County and the 5th constituency to give this children a smile at least as a gift on this holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77863	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Mamic, we have been through your 104th amendment, and now we have a set of amendments to the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy, Honored Secretary of State Dragan Jelic, when you are ready to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77864	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77865	Thank you very much. Amendment of 271st Honored Representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77866	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. This means the obligation to pay the users of the pensions in question stems from the Law on invalidity and pension insurance, which was in force until 31 December '98. and the current Pension Insurance Act. Accordingly, the planned funds within the pension division of the Croatian Homeland Army are planned to amount to 20 million kuna for 2022. According to those rules adopted in accordance with the principle of rights acquired, the use of pensions achieved under previous pension insurance rules and compliance with the applicable Pension Insurance Act shall be ensured. As regards the Agency for the Insurance of Workers' Searches, and the activities of insurance for workers' search in the event of bankruptcy of employers, the amount planned for 28 million and 185 thousand 176 kuna is sufficient on the basis of a good economic situation and the expected increase in GDP is estimated to be sufficient for the purpose of paying out labour claims in the event of employer bankruptcy in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77867	Dear representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77868	Thank you. It's hardly enough, it's really hard enough. So the workers of Kamensky and the workers of Dioki are already able to say for 10 years they've been searching for their labour claims. Kamensky's workers only got 15% of their search, so it's hardly enough. And for the Croatian public, thanks to the HDZ lawmakers, all workers in Croatia have been in 30 years. the pensions of a member of the so-called so-called “retirement”; Croatian Homeland Army. That army under that name never existed. But the name was chosen since in the public above all to give pensions to NDH soldiers, Ustashas, and natives would cause some reactions and problems. The right to retire was thus granted to members of, for example, the black legion or guards of Ustasha concentration camps, and not only the right to retire, members of the non-existent Croatian Homeland Army, but also the status of wartime military invalids with associated benefits is also possible for the Ustashas. The law, without insisting on any investigation, also rejects the judgments of NDH members of the armed forces for their conduct during World War II. Therefore, the law states, I quote, that the wartime military disability is a person whose organism has been damaged by at least 20% due to the wound or injury it received in the Croatian Homeland Army since 17 April '41. until May 15th, '45. I.e. until release from captivity even though she was convicted in this regard after May 15, 1945. I know it's very popular that MPs and MPs, especially in their election units, give amendments to schools, and then some health homes, and then voices are gathering that you're just giving your constituency a little more money, even though there should be some comparative analysis, and our task is Unreal things we notice [[Intruder: Time]] in that budget. [[Intruder: Time]] I'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77869	Thank you very much. Amendment 272. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77870	The amendment is not accepted. The position of division 086 of the Ministry of Labour provides funding exclusively for social care activities, so it is not possible to provide funding for the activities of education and education in educational institutions. As you have heard, fellow Mamic, this problem will be solved through the coordination of several ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77871	Dear representative Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77872	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, it's amazing you're transferring a ball from one ministry to another. We are not satisfied with your explanation and are asking to vote on this amendment. You must all be aware in the government that in the Republic of Croatia a third of women are forced to save on hygienic cartridges and tampons because they are too expensive to buy less quality products, and some can't afford them at all. It is a very devastating fact that in the 21st century, a part of girls are missing out of school for these very reasons, and they are not familiar with the use of old cloths, newspapers or toilet paper as replacement products for hygienic supplies. It is unacceptable for any society, humiliating for any living creature and harmful for maintaining a minimum hygiene and health minimum. However, the Croatian tax system continues to treat hygiene needs for women who need them during the menstrual cycle just as a luxury, not as a basic need for life because otherwise the tax rate would not be 25% but lower, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia recently rejected the opposition proposal to cut the tax to 5%. The problem of menstrual poverty is not a political or secular issue, and not by cutting taxes, the government is becoming discriminatory towards the female part of the population. Several units of local self-government among the first Varazdin, Rijeka, Krapina-Zagorska County where SDP is in power along with several other cities and schools and counties have provided budgets for hygiene supplies but cannot depend on it alone. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with ensuring co-financing of hygienic inputs in all educational institutions. We therefore wanted to provide funds to supply school institutions with sufficient supplies of menstrual hygiene supplies for pupils of all schools in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77873	Thank you. Amendment to the 273th Honored Representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77874	The amendment is not accepted, at division 086 of the Ministry of Labour, the planned resources within the competence of the division of the family and social policy system are sufficient for the estimated and planned expenditure for the period from 2022-2024.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77875	Thank you very much. We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment of 274th Honored Representative Sinisha Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77876	The amendment is not accepted, funds for child care activities, youth and adults other founders were planned in accordance with the three-year budget period and projections were made for the same period, which increased by 22 million 457 000 and 256 kuna in 2022 and in 2023. A significant increase in resources is foreseen due to the application of a new methodology for calculating social services prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77877	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77878	I absolutely disagree with the answer, this is a bureaucratic, bureaucratic response from which I don't understand anything, but it may not be a reason, maybe I don't even need to understand, so this is about the Center for Education and Education of the Zastava which is otherwise in Budinian which would be dislocated here in Mihovian. Mihovljan is a small municipality that has 1900 inhabitants where HDZ is always in power, so I am helping the HDZ chief try to do something in his small municipality. I'm also helping Andre Plenkovic, who promised most of these things, you weren't here to repeat on that so-called. I have no idea of the monarch, so there is little promise for everyone, so this is just a promise from Andrej Plenkovic. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77879	Thank you very much. Amendment of 275th Honored Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77880	The amendment is not accepted, the funds planned for the implementation of national strategies for the improvement of professional work in the social care system have been increased by a million kuna compared to 2021. and are sufficient to implement national strategies and improve professional work in the social care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77881	Respected Selak Rasdic MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77882	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Although I am glad that you have slightly increased the resources I am not satisfied with the amount and I think more resources should be given to improve professional work in the welfare system. That's why I asked to add another half a million kuna. In fact, it is the social care system that is under extreme pressure in this pandemic time. As you know, family violence in the first year has increased the crime of family violence by an incredible 40%, and unfortunately trends show that it has not changed but that it continues to grow in this year by an additional 8% compared to the previous period compared to last year. As a result, the social care system is under incredible pressure, and as we could unfortunately discover at the time when we witnessed the unfavorable events in which some children were killed, the number of cases assigned to an employee within the system is insufficient to be seriously approached by certain cases which, unfortunately, sometimes result in fatal consequences. As another pandemic year awaits us, I believe that additional funds should be allocated for this item and I will ask that the amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77883	Amendment 276 by Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77884	The amendment is not accepted, the funds planned for the financial support activities for programmes and projects aimed at children with disabilities and adults are intended for the settlement of commitments under the two-year programmes of persons with disabilities and associations acting in favour of persons with disabilities, means 2022-2023.g. These are personal assistance services, seen escorts and sign language interpreters and are sufficient to settle the contractual commitments undertaken and to provide for activities in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77885	Respected Selak Rasdic MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77886	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I asked the item to increase the item by an additional 2 million kuna in support of programmes and projects aimed at children with disabilities and adults. The reason is, on the one hand, multiple projects of associations dealing with children with disabilities and adults are the ones we need to encourage the most in order to develop a sensitive and democratic society. On the other hand, we can see how many of them are missing when we read the Ombudsman's reports for people with disabilities of some different possibilities that will allow them to meet the real sector, so that this section of what these finances are used for should be extended, and this can only be allocated to additional funds. I therefore ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77887	Thank you. Amendment 277 of Honored Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77888	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as with the previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77889	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. The next amendment is the 278, that Green-left bloc rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77890	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned for activities and improving the protection of victims of domestic violence are intended for the settlement of obligations under the three-year programme of associations providing counselling and shelters for women and children victims of domestic violence in 2022 to 2024 and are so far for the settlement of contractual commitments and planned activities in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77891	Honorable representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77892	Thanks to the initiative of parliamentarians, the item of housing provision of victims of domestic violence has been increased, but we do not consider it sufficient as much as we are satisfied with it. Namely, the ratification of this Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Family Violence, which was commended by Prime Minister Plenkovic and said that he even suffered some political damage because of this, namely, is not enough. In addition to ratification, it is also necessary to apply and to make use, money is needed and there is no money in this budget for the implementation of this Convention. So there's no money for what's really important, that's prevention. There are some money to solve the consequences, there are no consequences that cannot be solved as the case of the poor woman killed a few days ago in Split, there is no problem solving. What we should be working on and why we have given this amendment, which, of course, is solidarity with the other representatives in the Croatian Parliament who are in this initiative is precisely that it is working on prevention, that it is working on a change of social paradigm in which domestic violence or any violence against women will be absolutely unacceptable. And that's why we're staying with this amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77893	Thank you. Amendment 279 by MP Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77894	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same reasoning as with this previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77895	Dear representative Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77896	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. As one colleague before me has said, I will only once again point out that the Istanbul Convention entered into force in 2018 where the decided security of the establishment of a sufficient number of suitable easily available specialised shelters to enable safe accommodation and proactive assistance to victims, especially women and their children, therefore I consider and seek an increase in funds and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77897	Thank you very much. Amendment of the 280th Representative of Mary Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77898	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for the two previous amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77899	Dear representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77900	At the beginning of this pandemic, the Assembly Committee on Equality of Jobs first warned and continued to warn about the increase in domestic violence at the time of the pandemic. We've been following all the trends, literally from the molecules of the MUP to give me the latest statistics so that we can also make suggestions to improve the system of prevention of domestic violence. Unfortunately, this has not happened, perhaps partly because of this negative trend continues to grow and has not been stopped. These funds I asked to increase within this item to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence had a very specific purpose. In addition to the necessary means to protect victims of domestic violence, faced with the pandemic winter that is coming to us, we must provide additional resources to identify domestic violence. In that sense, my request was clear. The current headquarters or any political or parapolitical body that will take action at the time of the pandemic must team up with a person who is an expert in domestic violence or mental health who will be able to identify such cases on the ground and who will develop specific programmes to help these victims. There must also be a way to further report cases of violence, as well as personnel that will adapt the current violence calendar so that we have a comparative monthly and semi-annual analysis, so that we can spot negative trends rather than depend on the good will of the MUP to get the necessary statistics. Given how much domestic violence has grown during this pandemic, I ask that we consider how much this means are needed to contain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77901	Are you asking for a vote? Amendment to the 281st legislator, Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77902	The amendment is not accepted. The law on child allowance and the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families provides for the conditions for the right to receive child allowance and the amount of child allowances, while the EU legal regulations on the coordination of the social security system are laid down in the jurisdiction to pay for family allowances for children, i.e. which country is in accordance with the rules of the advantage primarily and which is secondly competent for the payment of family benefits. The funds planned in the proposal for the national budget of the Republic of Croatia under the item of allowances for children, allowances for citizens and households on the basis of insurance and other charges shall be sufficient for the payment of the rights of all users resulting from those rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77903	We'll vote on this amendment. The next amendment is Amendment 282 of MP Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77904	The amendment is not accepted. According to the Social Care Act, the Republic of Croatia has transferred the founding rights to decentralised homes, homes for older and powerless persons to the county and city of Zagreb and to the homes of pensioners to authorise HZMO. The transfer of ownership rights over the county is therefore under way, we believe that the funds for the proposed item can be planned in the draft state budget for 2022 and the 2023 and 2024 projections on the project presented by additional investment in civil buildings or at all within... The Department of Labour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77905	Dear representative Sanja Radolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77906	Thank you. And I thank you for this bureaucratic explanation. I'm glad you mentioned exactly that the right of ownership that the HZMO had so far has been transferred, and that's where the problem has arisen. So, Pula is waiting for a place in a home for older and powerless persons for 10 years, for a single room for 10 years. There are over 2,000 people on the waiting list. People started applying from their 50 years of age to the waiting list because maybe they'd welcome her then. The problems were property-legal relations with HZMO, which despite the government's conclusion was passed a year and a half ago, still refused to transfer ownership rights to the founder himself. So why would someone invest in something that isn't his or her own county? Of course, conditions were created in the surrounding neighbouring municipalities for the construction of homes for older and powerless persons and this amendment is sought in the Municipality of Fažana, which is a very successful tourist-developed municipality, there are opportunities for building homes for older and powerless persons with a capacity of 50 beds. I ask that the amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77907	Thank you very much. Amendment to the 283th Amendment of Representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77908	The amendment is not accepted because the funds are planned in accordance with the projections of the number of users in the measures of education and unemployment, training at workplaces and permanent seasons, and we believe that the planned funds of 47 million and 950,000 kuna are sufficient for the planned number of users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77909	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 284 to MP Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77910	The amendment is not accepted. Amendments to the Social Care Act provide that the activity from compensation to employment of 2022 is to be transferred to the authority of the HZZ. The proposed amount is in line with the annual statistics on the number of users and financial data and the cost of remuneration to employment and a reduction in the number of users has been observed. The amount of 226 million 258 944 kuna is the total budget of the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the same sufficient for the implementation of planned activities in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77911	Dear representative Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77912	Thank you. Of course I'm not happy with the explanation and it's also my last amendment. So all the amendments for society-sensitive people, in society you refused. This last amendment went towards the remuneration of persons with disabilities because I believe that the amount is insufficient and would therefore be accepted and applied to the rules establishing the employment quota of persons with disabilities where the bonds... employment, employers who employ at least 20 workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those employers are obliged to employ persons with disabilities at an appropriate workplace of 3% compared to the total number of employees on which the quota is established, and all according to the recommendations of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, and according to the research, we all know that persons with disabilities are a risk group for poverty, so I asked for an increase in funds because they are insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77913	Are you asking for a vote? Amendment 285. It's the Bridge Representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77914	The amendment is not accepted. At the position of division 0,86 of the Ministry of Labour, funds are provided exclusively for social care activities since it is not possible to recognise in the welfare system the right to stay for parents during treatment and therapy, the proposed amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77915	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Honored Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77916	We do not accept the argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on. When you say "it's not possible", it sounds like I don't know who's stopping you from doing something like that, anything's possible. This is a system to address for this item, it's only a matter of goodwill, will you do something like that. Namely, what we are asking is to provide accommodation funds to parents who have a child after giving birth to neonatology or sick and are forced to stay in another city for treatment and pay for accommodation. Because they don't have the opportunity to be in the hospital with their child. In Croatia, we have 3 large KBCs that are gravitated by all those citizens, i.e. children and babies whose adequate medical care cannot be provided in hospitals of cities where they live or are significantly close. The contribution to healthcare is a very large part of our incomes, but despite this, parents who have a child staying in a hospital miles away from their residence are forced to allocate significant financial resources so that they can be with their child. Parents' homes can't take enough parents. It is necessary to provide funds for the expansion of the capacity of these houses as well as for the possible payment of the work of the parents who are children to be treated. I think we can all feel for this and that these funds have to be provided. We'll ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77917	Thank you. Amendment 286. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77918	The amendment is not accepted. In the state budget, funds are provided exclusively for homes of which the founder of the Republic of Croatia is not units of regional and regional self-government. Here is another note that we are planning a competition also from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan worth more than 300 million kuna to build homes for the elderly, so here, I invite you to follow the following years of the site and there will be local and regional self-government units to report to the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77919	On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honored Representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77920	Thank you very much. Yes, the Istrian County will also be reported for sure as cities or units of local self-government always appear, just so we don't have another weight that the coefficient of development reduces points, so it's not exactly equal, let's be honest and it's proved so far in practice in these 30 years that for some it doesn't have or has a little less. The Istrian County is currently co-financed with cities if I'm not mistaken, homes for older people in Pazin or Labin, it seems to me soon and in Buzet, I believe that in Pula for some time it will succeed, but in Rasa there is also a home for older people. The project is planned here in Amendment 19.5 million kuna, all the necessary documentation has been made, resulting, powerful, building permit, includes building and equipment not to go to all technical analysis now, but rather important to say that home building is necessary in order to ensure the prescribed conditions for providing services for the existing number of users of permanent accommodation, 61 and for providing daily stay services. If the conditions for building another floor are not ensured, the home must reduce the number of users to a 61-to-40 accommodation, which is devastating, given that the problem of capacity, or demand, is, so to speak, much greater than what can be offered right now. People have been waiting for years, somewhere almost 10, to get to their home. So in situations like this, and since the county co-finances everyone else, but it can't, we expect the state's help to help us, to help us. Here, I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77921	Thank you. Amendment 287. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77922	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for the previous, with that he would still like to emphasise and that, as far as we're concerned... activities relating to the care of older people are also aimed at developing beyond institutional services to ensure the retention of older people in their own home, which will also be a tender in the next more financial framework. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77923	On behalf of the IDS Club, respected representative Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77924	Dear Secretary of State, I will refer to your explanation of the amendment before you said it would be available to 300 million kuna, which is certainly something we welcome, but also to be honest, if we look at the construction of the beginning to the end, it is perhaps 6, 7, maximum 8 homes for the elderly throughout Croatia. That's real, maybe enough for one county, right? So I think that we definitely need to find a way to secure more funding because it is true, the founding and management rights have been transferred to units of local and regional self-government, however, it is also necessary to enable financial resources, i.e. to decentralise financial resources, in order to bring them down, so that these municipalities and cities can finance it. Because we have an example like some, let's say, richer municipalities, simply such amounts of home building of 40, 50 or 60 million kuna with all other obligations that the municipalities have and the cities are simply in these conditions impossible, so I believe that the state budget can and must find the means to help and therefore ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77925	Amendment 288 of the respected representative of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77926	The amendment is not accepted. The funds planned for the accommodation of foster families are intended to meet the needs of social care users located in foster families and are sufficient to settle obligations on the basis of the recognition of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77927	Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77928	I do not accept education, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, I've asked for a housing fee to be increased by 2 500 000 kuna, which in itself is insufficient. Unfortunately, even in HS, we have recently witnessed an interim debate during the vote about what foster care is and what its goal is, and we have seen that even parliamentary advocates do not distinguish foster care and adoption. Croatia has a big problem with foster care. The foster parent is not enough, and those who are foster parents are not satisfied with their position or the rights that they can achieve, mostly in matters of care for those children where they are in some way not recognised by their status which, when it comes to children who need to adapt to a new family, is even harder than usual parenting, but by the way that they are able to realise their rights, comes down to someone who cannot have the right to have the right to have no right or near parents. What I particularly lack of young foster families. As you know, the age limits that, those who host Croatia, are very high, and we need to animated as many people as possible and as many young people as possible to get involved in these praises a valuable act. Therefore, I do not accept your argument, I will ask that this amendment be voted on and I hope that we will improve the conditions in foster families and attract as many citizens of the Republic of Croatia as possible to provide care for children without a family home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77929	Amendment 289. It's the Bridge Representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77930	The amendment is not accepted. Funds planned care activities for children without adequate parental care are sufficient to meet all necessary and planned costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77931	Dear representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77932	I do not accept the explanation and will ask for this amendment to be voted on. We asked that the item take care of children without adequate parental care increase by 300 thousand kuna, and these were meant to ensure that the cost of summering was covered by children with special needs without the need for parental care. Is that a lot to ask? The measure can cover up to 300 children. It is an extremely humane measure that provides the most vulnerable and sensitive group of our society with several days of vacation and escape from the homes they live in during the year. This can be seen as a rehabilitation measure, but as an act of state kindness towards children without parents, who also have special needs and need constant care and care. Flying for these children is a special luxury that I cannot afford now, and probably not in the future, so we cannot accept your explanation and we will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77933	Amendment 290 of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77934	The amendment is not accepted. ... activities relating to the care of older people are aimed at developing beyond institutional services which ensure the retention of older people in their own home, and health rehabilitation is not within the scope of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, family and social policy and means of caring for older and powerless persons, as I have already said, are provided in the state budget for homes whose founder is the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77935	Dear representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77936	With this amendment, we asked for the care of older and powerless persons, the financing of project technical documentation for building a home for older and powerless persons and health rehabilitation in the city of Split by 500 000 kuna. Namely, there are 50,000 elderly people living in Split, while there are only 1,000 people in Split's homes for older and powerless. There are more than 4 years waiting for home accommodation approvals. There are more than 1500 people on the waiting lists. The lowest pension is 950 kuna and receives more than 50% of pensioners, while the average pension is only a few times higher. Private homes for these people are inaccessible, pensioners in the town of Split unfortunately as well as the rest of Croatia live on the edge of existence. The ageing population increases the problem of caring for older people. Studies show that older ones have a great need to be useful. Therefore, they are not incompetent to work as they are declared in the new proposal of the Social Care Act, which is, in addition, even at this notional level, discriminatory. In quality homes older people can live better because they have health care, regular food, someone takes care of them, and they have peers with whom they can communicate and feel involved. It is therefore necessary to finance a project task to build content of medical service character in the Split area. The project should cover 2 components. The first is the provision of accommodation and care services for older and powerless persons and provides for accommodation capacity for at least 300 persons. The second component is to provide health rehabilitation services to all age groups. We have submitted here a specific amendment for the city of Split, but we are also looking for the same standards in the rest of the Republic of Croatia which has a whole problem with accommodation and care for older people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77937	Are you asking for a vote? Are you asking for a vote? Amendment 291. [[Intruder: Yes.]] The Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77938	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted because it was not submitted on the proposal of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for '23. And '24. on a proposal to amend and supplement the State budget for 2022 with projections for '23. And '24. A year that's not being discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77939	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77940	I will accept this argument and then, in that sense, I will withdraw the amendment because there is currently no debate on this budget projection [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77941	Thank you. That's it. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, so this amendment 291 has been withdrawn. The next set of amendments refers to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, respected Secretary of State Tonchi Glava will come for a pay phone. Amendment 292. The Most Representatives' Club. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77942	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed draft budget clearly defines the activities planned to implement in position 3208 to encourage the development of tourism in the new financial year, which is not mentioned in the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77943	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77944	We do not accept the argument, we will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, we asked for funds to be provided in the 2022 budget for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of a congressional tourist centre with audiovisual facilities at the Marijan Shrine in Novi Rasa. So the congress centre, the audiovisual centre and the development of tourist offer, accommodation facilities and catering facilities because of the great interest of tourists and all the benefits that such a single centre would have for those who want to visit this place and for the development of the whole region. Thank you. I'll ask him to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77945	Thank you very much. Amendment 293 of MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77946	The amendment is not accepted. For activities financed by this activity, the planned funds shall be sufficient. Other activities on tourist security can be financed from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77947	We'll vote on this amendment then. Amendment 294. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77948	The amendment is not accepted. On the basis of the Regulation on criteria for awarding national awards for top sports achievements and the basis of the data received from roof sports associations and national sports associations in competitions to be held in 2022, the projection of the necessary funds has been made and there is no need to increase since the planned funds will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77949	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77950	Your Honor, we're staying with our amendment and we're looking for a vote on it. In fact, we asked for an increase in the value of state-run rewards for high-end sports achievements last year in which, due to the epidemic of the coronary virus and its associated measures, the burden of restrictions fell to sports, athletes who were significantly limited in their activities. We believe that by increasing the prize for top sports achievements, we can also help the recovery of top sports in Croatia. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77951	Thank you. Amendment 295. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77952	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the number of current users exercising the right to a permanent cash refund under the Regulation on the granting of permanent monthly monthly fees, an assessment of the necessary funds has been made and no increase is required as the planned funds will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77953	Dear Representative Puljak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77954	Here, with the same explanation, we ask that this amendment be voted on, so that the value of state recognition activities, permanent monetary rewards for the Ministry of Tourism and Sports is increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77955	Thank you. Amendment 296. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77956	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the assessment of the number of applicants whose programmes will be co-financed through tenders and the amount of support for individual programmes, an assessment of the necessary funds for that activity is made and no increase is necessary as the funds will be sufficient. The above activity is also financed from the chance of gambling and will be higher in view of the continued increase in the planned amount in this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77957	Thank you. Dear Representative Puljak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77958	Dear Members, we are also asking for a vote on this amendment since Croatia is too little to encourage the development of local sports and sports competitions after 2021 when due to the consequences and measures related to the outbreak of the Aaron of sport in general then and local sport and competition have been neglected, we believe that increased investment in its development and expansion is necessary and therefore we are looking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77959	Okay, Amendment 297. It's the Center and Voice Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77960	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the activities carried out with regard to prevention and violence programmes in cooperation with several partners who participate in the implementation with material and technical means, the planned amount is sufficient to implement that project. Also given the situation caused by the pandemic of the coronal virus, activities will be carried out in a reduced volume due to epidemiological measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77961	Mrs. Puljak, I presume. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77962	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, This is a particularly important amendment given that it concerns the prevention of violence by sport in schools where this item provides for 389,000 kuna, we have suggested that this amount be increased to 2 million kuna because this estimated amount is not nearly enough for the implementation of the programme of prevention of violence by sport in schools. The amount we propose is a minimum so that even children in Croatia can be thought of through sport prevention programmes. Here's what we're asking for is an amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77963	Amendment 298. It's the Bridge Representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77964	The amendment is not accepted, aid to amateur sports and sports recreational activities which are otherwise the public need of the local level of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports systematically implemented through several competitions such as competitions for co-financing of sports programmes, promotion of local sport and sports competitions, Croatia swims etc., for which private activities are foreseen in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77965	Mrs. Raspadic, Selak Rasudiæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77966	We do not accept the argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, we asked for an increase in the item and add an item of assistance to amateur sport amounting to 3 million kuna. So we asked for the state budget to provide funds to help the most endangered amateur sports collectives in the area of the county that are about to be shut down. You know the problem of Croatia with obesity, you know that numerous sports collectives are at risk, especially amateur sports collectives at the time of the pandemic where sport is one of the activities most affected by various measures and because of the general abandonment of citizens from the practice of sports as some form of contact that could lead them to an increased risk of covid infection. It is the amateur associations that are resting on the real enthusiasm of sports lovers who, as such, can contribute most to the healthy life of culture and the healthy life of our citizens. Therefore, we cannot accept this argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77967	Thank you very much. 299th and Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77968	The amendment is not accepted, the budgetary user of the state budget cannot assume the obligation under investment projects only at the professional evaluation carried out and the estimated eligibility and effectiveness of the investment project as prescribed. 45. Budget law. Also in the proposal for a state budget for the specific purpose of the Ministry of Tourism and Sport, K016023 co-financing, construction of construction procedures on the sport infrastructure for co-financing or financing of the construction of new and/or construction procedures on existing sports buildings as well as the equipment of the same necessary equipment through competitions intended for units of local, regional (regional) self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77969	IDS representative club... And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Selak Raspadic. Please, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77970	Razudiæ Selak, Selak Raspoudić, was also involved with those parliamentary representatives who called me Rasdićka on the air, so this is still acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77971	Who said? I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77972	It was a colleague of Hrebak's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77973	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77974	... My microphone was off. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77975	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 300 Clubs of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77976	The amendment is not accepted, those activities can potentially be financed from the following sources, the Tourism Fund, the NPOO and the eu funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77977	Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77978	Thank you. Dearly spoken of the proposal for a new reconstruction position of the Parenzan cycling and hiking trail worth 15 million kuna, the project consists of the restoration of the Parenzana section from Livada to Grožnjan through the Kalcini tunnel. The aim is to improve the flow and availability of the route leading to the localities of protected cultural heritage. We're not satisfied with the explanation and we're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77979	Thank you. Amendment No. 301 IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77980	The amendment is not accepted, the answer is the same as in the previous amendment, so those activities can potentially be financed from sources, the Tourism Fund, the NPOO and eu funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77981	Mrs. Nemett, please. Mr Lerotić [[Intruder Daus: Daus.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77982	Third time's the charm.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77983	There's three of you, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. We are not naturally satisfied with the answer that we would not be satisfied with, nor would we suggest, that we have enough resources. It is about the Vistor Center on the Lim Channel estimated value of 7.5 million kuna, the project includes the construction and equipment of the centre, the construction and equipment of the trails, the surveillance equipment of the protected area and the promotion of the centre on the national and international market. As regards the significant amount, it is necessary to include the state in the financing of the project for this reason the amendment is also submitted and thus to provide funding in the state budget, since you yourself said that we are refusing to ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77985	Thank you, Mr. Daus. 302. also Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77986	The amendment is not accepted, as in the previous two amendments, so activities can potentially be financed from the Tourism, NPOO and of course eu funds, and I remind you that the Tourism Fund may be the most suitable for such activities. And as you know, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports has been through the Tourism Fund for many years of significant and very successful and quality projects aided and co-financed specifically from Istria and of course we will continue to co-finance these projects further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77987	Mr. Lerotić now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77988	Dear Secretary of State, we're also not happy with your answer, but that's what's been going on all day. This landscape of Donji Kamenjak and the Medulin archipelago are indeed one oasis of biodiversity in the south of the Istrian peninsula, and all of this is recognised at Europe level, so we believe that one visitor centre would definitely contribute to one tourist offer and diversity in the area of Croatia that definitely predicates when we talk about tourism, and we believe that there should be enough resources for such centres to work not only in Istria but throughout Croatia. So I believe that's how it's gonna be in the future, so maybe you'll change your mind by tomorrow. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77989	Thank you very much. Amendment number 303. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77990	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the proposed proposal for a state budget clearly defines the activities planned to implement in position 3208 to encourage the development of tourism in the new financial year, both for the development of public and private tourism infrastructures. As long as the proposal for an amendment does not state what activity it is. In addition, tourism infrastructure financing projects shall be selected through the basis of that procedure after the public call published, and not directly selected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77991	Mrs. Nemett will answer, explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77992	Thank you. It is about the revitalization project Finishing through the establishment of a spacious hotel model. The general objective of the project is to revitalise historical cultural heritage to improve the tourism potential of the Municipality of Grožnjan and contribute to a balanced development of the wider region. We're not satisfied with the explanation we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77993	Thank you. Number 304 of the same club IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77994	The amendment is not accepted. The above activities can therefore potentially be financed from the Tourism Fund, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from the EU Funds, which is the reason for the previous few amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77995	Mr. Daus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77996	Thank you very much. It's about an amendment to the underground city, the underground city of Labin. 100 million kuna, one quite high amount, but it really is one special project, as the underground city itself says, that is, the mining legacy and the reuse of the same mining legacy. The aim of the project is not only to remember the rich history of Eastern Istria mining, especially Labina, activities that are no longer available, but to design content that will serve as a platform for socialization, interaction, learning, knowledge exchange with the aim of achieving sustainability and in a sociological, economic and cultural sense in multiple ways. This phase includes the creation of a project documentation for the second phase of the construction project of the cableway towards Rapac, escalator or accelerants for the old city. As it is a significant amount, we expected the state to recognise this project that will contribute in many ways not only to the development of Labin, Labinština but to Croatia and tourism in general, and regardless of what they say, we know very well that the projects are being opened and there should be one touch to feel, to feel and to be present alone, the state itself on such projects. That's why, of course, we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77997	Thank you. 305. IDS counseling club, again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77998	The amendment is not accepted. With the same response as in previous several amendments, so they can be financed from the Tourism Fund, the National Recovery Plan and Resistance or EU funds. But here's the thing about this amendment and the previous one would especially point out the investment programme for public tourist infrastructure, which opens up in the amount of 930 million kuna and will be opened through a public tender procedure in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where projects like this, of this type, are just ideal for running.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u77999	305. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78000	Thank you. It's about the position we predicted Inspired Fantasy Park Pazin. Inspire Fantasy Park is a new tourist project of the town of Pazina which is implemented with the support of the Istrian County. It is about building a theme entertainment park based on the world of Istrian, Slavic and European mythology. Since we are not satisfied with the answer, we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78001	305. IDS's club, 306, no five, 306 right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78002	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the previous few amendments. So these are projects that can ideally be co-financed or financed from the Tourism Fund, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan or from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78003	Mr. Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78004	Thank you. No, we can't accept the argument, of course we're going to ask for a vote, but let me just briefly explain to those who may, perhaps, be watching this session of the assembly and the general public in particular the people of Motovun and actually the citizens of Istria. Motovun is a municipality with cca 1000 inhabitants, a yearly Motovun visits 200,000 visitors. Due to the very configuration of the settlement on the hill, raised 277 meters above the Mirna valley, above the river Mirna, is a protected monument of culture, which is Motovun with all restrictions. It is necessary to build a cable car, a lift that would allow quality and smooth access to numerous visitors especially persons with disabilities. The cableway, the climber is planned with the starting station near the bridge on the Mirna River and all the way to the old town centre. It would be not only as a necessary transport infrastructure but also an attractive panoramic transport. Like I said, I'm asking us to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78005	307. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78006	The amendment is not accepted. The budgetary user of the state budget may take the obligation under investment projects only after the professional evaluation and assessment of the eligibility and effectiveness of the investment project as prescribed in Article 45. Budget law. In addition, a proposal for a state budget in particular part 090 of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports opened an activity to co-finance the construction of construction procedures on the sport infrastructure to co-finance and/or finance the construction of new or construction procedures on existing sports buildings as well as to equip them with the same necessary equipment through competitions for local and regional (regional) self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78007	Mr. Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78008	Thank you. With tourism little to sport, we know that Labin is a city of sport and except for the legendary handball players he has given over the last decade Labin is a city of football, otherwise there are over 1800 citizens who participate in sports activities, and the highest number of members of the NK "Radar" with its 75-year history, a quality football school with over 200 athletes of all ages. The project imagines the construction of the stands of reconstruction of dressing rooms and all together is the reconstruction of the city stadium of 10 million kuna. We're looking for an amendment vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78009	And 308. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78010	The amendment shall not be accepted by reason of the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78011	Who's going to answer, Mr. Daus?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78012	Similarly, only in a settlement in the part of the city of Labin on Vinež football, an auxiliary football field, investing in young people, in younger age groups, and not to be longer with the explanation of the project itself, here we expected to find at least a part of the 6 million kuna provided by the state to help on this project. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78013	Thank you. 309th Representative Hajdash, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78014	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as in the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78016	Yeah, that's the same explanation. Thank you. I don't accept your argument, and I'm going to ask for a vote. So, somewhere in 1985-1986, we started a huge investment, the last major investment in sports facilities in the City of Zagreb and the wider area. You know what happened in '87? You don't know? You don't know what happened in 1987? University. '87. It was the University. This was your last major investment in sports infrastructure in Zagreb and in cities that were co-organizers and places, so Bjelovar do Kumrovec, from Zabok to Krapina, was your last investment in sports infrastructure. And right through this amendment of 10 million kuna was the continuation of this investment of politrical development of sport in this long part of tourism, which is the construction of a sports actually building and reconstruction of the sports recreational centre in Zabok, for which there is a building permit. So, a little investment, an investment outside the metropolis, that's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78017	Thank you. Also representative of Hajdash Doncic's number of amendments 310.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78018	The amendment is not accepted. These activities can potentially be financed from the Tourism, NPOO and EU Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78020	Okay, thank you. So, you think this would be an investment in the continental part of the tourism in Bedekovčin, in this Bayer-Bedekovec lake that was created by digging up what we're going to call a repromary for a factory, for a brick in Bedekovina called Zagorka, once upon a time, of course, does not exist through these different privatisations, etc., you think that they should report to one of these EU competitions. But you see, I think it would be good if with some of the initial assets that are here and envisaged, and they're actually from the items I've always asked for, which is to help maybe not personally you, but Andrej Plenkovic to prevent, say, software 18, so we're always taking from the cost of services. That's why I suggest you might reconsider and adopt that amendment. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78021	Thank you very much. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic 311.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78022	The amendment is not accepted. Prevention programs except... The activities and prevention of violence in schools are co-financed through two activities in the state budget “Promoting local sports and sports competitions” and “Croatia swims”. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] For that reason, there is no need to provide additional resources in paragraph 363.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is interesting that no item, no amendment that I have proposed, and otherwise there are 4-5 that involve the prevention of violence and prevention of addiction has been adopted. All is financed from other items. I'd like to believe that's the case and probably one part is, but if we're talking about systematic prevention, if we're talking about a systematic fight against addiction, especially sports, then that's not enough. We don't encourage amateur sports, we don't encourage school sports, we don't encourage extracurricular activities in primary and secondary schools, and now you're trying to convince me that with some miserable amount of probably co-financed local sports competitions we'll cover it all. Well, I have news for you, we won't. And not that it's not enough, it's not close enough either. And the item or increase I suggested with 5 million kunas, I think it's very symbolic. So not even from the closeness of what should be because I'm going to speak in a medical dictionary, I've said that here many times, so I have to say again, the repeat is the mother of knowledge, the kuna invested in prevention is 5 kuna saved in recovery. But when we talk about addiction, when we talk about violence, when we talk about sport in general, and, and the good things that it encourages the kuna that we have invested in sport is multiplely paid to not only the kunas that we have saved in the recovery but the lives saved, the persons formed, the people who are able to be a constructive part of society, the uninterrupted development, the contribution to that same society and ultimately to that society and to return to it. So I think this is a very bad message from the government and your ministry, and I'm going to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78025	Thank you. Now the representative of Mrs. Crescent's office. Sanja Radolović 312.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78026	The amendment is not accepted. The budgetary user of the state budget may assume the commitment by investment projects only after the professional evaluation and evaluation of the eligibility and effectiveness of the investment project is carried out as prescribed. 45. Budget law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78027	Here you go, ma'am. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78028	Thank you, dear Vice President. This amendment therefore requires the provision of funding from the state budget for the reconstruction of the sports recreational centre "Home of the Ribar Brothers" in Pula, the building site of the construction heritage that was last renovated far in 1968. You're saying that because of the Budget Law, I'll just remind you that when this government opened a new track in Karlovac, which it funded with 3.5 million kuna, it said that it was very important to invest in sports facilities and that this is a particular priority, and this amendment is also proposed according to the example of the realisation of the investment in Karlovac. I really hope that investments in sports infrastructure are not determined in this government according to the political key, and I hope that you will get away from actually politicizing investment in sports facilities. Also here today we have had the opportunity to hear about the eu funds in fact we will finance everything from the NPOO funds, we do not need the state budget at all. And I'll just remind you that in the 2014-20 operational period, absolutely we couldn't withdraw one euro from the EU funding, reconstruction, construction, construction of sports infrastructure and I really and deeply hope that this ministry is taking care of it and that in coordination with the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds as a managing body, we will have the opportunity to withdraw these funds from the EU funds for sport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78029	Are you asking for a vote? Yeah, okay. [[Intruding Radolović: Yes.]] Also representative Sanja Radolović 313.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78030	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as in the previous amendment, with another note in order to reduce the SOA plan in that amount to jeopardise the functioning and performance of the Agency's tasks in the protection of the national security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78032	I didn't hear you very well, but I read your lips. Like this, counterpart Hajdas Doncic asked you if you knew what happened in 1987 when the last time the sports infrastructure was restored around the city of Zagreb and in the city of Zagreb, I will ask you, do you know what happened in 1986? 1986. The Alps-Adria games were held in Pula, and then it was the means of the Shipyard Oilyard that built the Veruda Sports Recreative Center when it was last invested in it. I repeat, funds are being sought here for the reconstruction of the Veruda Sports Recreative Centre in Pula in the amount of 7 million kunas exactly by modeling the town of Karlovac where you have also invested 3.5 million kunas and I think if it can be in other cities where HDZ is in power I see no reason why somewhere else it could not be invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78033	Are you asking for a vote? Okay. [[Intruding Radolović: Yes.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Now we move on to next segment 096, next set, cluster whatever you want from the Ministry of Health. With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Mr Tomislav Dulibic. 314. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78034	The amendment is not accepted, in accordance with the decision of the Civil Protection Staff on the introduction of a special safety precautionary test measure for all healthcare professionals, companies carrying out their health activities and private healthcare professionals on the SARS-COV-2 virus, the cost of the employer's test.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78035	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andreja Maric I think so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78036	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We are not acceptable to your clarification, and we are asking for a vote on this amendment. I note that it is very important for all of us to finally exit the Covid-19 pandemic, the interpretations of part of the public as the vaccinated and unvaccinated citizens are equally transmitted by the virus, which is not true, and that patients are infected in health care institutions by healthcare professionals, particularly those who are not being tested because they have covid certificates and therefore we believe that by planning budgets are being tested over two weeks, twice a week and vaccinated workers in the entire health system of about 55,000 who have been vaccinated or are over what the funds required in this amount we have asked for. You have announced or the minister has announced a pilot project that will test a small number of employees means, however, on the trail of what we are saying and that I have asked as a representative a question to the current Minister Beros, but there will be only 1,500 employees covered, it is too little to conclude anything valid. And then what next? What if you see that there is still a negligible number of positives among the vaccines, then what are you going to do? Did you predict such funds at all? You're not. Therefore, we believe that this amendment, which we have submitted, is very reasonable and is important for the entire health system if we want to get out of the pandemic as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78037	Number 315 is also the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78038	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted, the proposed purpose is not stated, there is no justification on the basis of which legal rules will implement this activity, nor is there a calculation of the number of necessary psychological treatments to be carried out. The financing of healthcare shall be implemented in accordance with the Health Insurance Act as to why the funds are secured at the HZZO positions and the proposed amendment is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78039	I suppose she's a respected representative of Maric's, isn't she?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78040	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is also not acceptable for your clarification and we are asking for a vote on the amendment. Due to the marked burden of the health system due to the covid-19 pandemic and the mobilization of healthcare professionals for more than a year and a half, a large number of healthcare workers are exhausted by numerous on-calls, working on shifts outside their regular work, working on covid departments while burning at work and burnout syndrome, due to the many unnecessary deaths of patients and overloads, therefore they need most of them psychological help and therefore we have asked for those funds. And if you're going to ask for a specific number of employees who are going to need psychological help, we're going to deliver it to you, so if not sooner, you're going to accept what we're looking for right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78041	You, too. Mrs Katarina Peović, the distinguished representative, is asking for amendment No. 316.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78042	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, the planned amount of funds for the A618211 treatment activities under the special regulations of the psychiatric hospital in the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. and projections for '23. And '24. the year is enough to settle the costs of forced accommodation and treatment of innumerable persons in psychiatric institutions according to a special regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78043	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78044	Thank you. ... What is already said is that in the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a need for both psychological treatment and increased psychological treatment. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] What we're doing at the moment of the greatest pandemic since the First World War, so we're cutting resources for treatment by special regulations to psychiatric hospitals. So in this budget, these funds were reduced compared to last year. On the other hand, unsuitably high funds have been allocated to the entire budget for the church. You can't even locate how much of the funds they are. So somewhere it's being calculated that it's a billion kuna, but here I've been asking for the Ministry of Reconstruction, Defence, pardon, spiritual care to reduce funds because for the spiritual care of an army of colleagues and colleagues from nearly 8 million kunas in 2020 it came across, to more than 11 million kunas, so the draft budget for '22. The year was about 10 million kuna, and the projection for '23. It's over $11 million, '24. More and more. So we reduce resources for psychiatric hospitals, but we increase spiritual care. What does that tell us? To pray to God dearly for mental patients will be easier for us. And I just want to say that this kind of rejection means these, so these serial increases are actually health care funds, and in general, this government is really sending a message about its priorities. So over 2 billion kunas are increasing for fighter planes, and health care is reducing funds. These are colleagues and colleagues of the government's priorities. I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78045	Club of Representatives of the Most 317.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78046	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Health Protection Act obliges founders to provide funds for investment investment and ongoing maintenance of medical institutions of medical and non-medical equipment and means of transport and to inform health activities in accordance with the plan and programme of health care measures and the network of public health services for health institutions whose founders, since the founder of the General Hospital of Zadar County is obliged to provide those funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78047	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78048	We do not accept the argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on. The neonatology department takes care of newborns from birth to release. All children who cannot be taken care of in the Zadar department are transported to Split. A significant number of pregnant women who are more likely to end up in neonatology are sent weeks earlier to Split. We believe it is necessary to provide funds for Zadar's neonatology to reduce the overload of the Split hospital, which is being gravitated by as many as 4 counties and with the aim that births from the Zadar County are not forced to go to Split or Zagreb. Zadar's birthplace has been around 1,500 children a year for a few years, and of which about 4 to 6% of infants, it is 70 to 90 children. There are six incubators among which we give a new one that's recently donated, and the rest are over 20 years old. The same was passed on to them by the Split birthplace after the restoration. So they spent old devices because they got new ones. It is therefore necessary to invest in Zadar’s neonatology because it will soon have to do with these old devices that are already too old to be used at all. We're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78049	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj 318.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78050	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed proposal does not state the purpose and there is no explanation of the activities to be carried out for the proposed increase in financial resources at the position of improving the quality of healthcare. The Ministry of Health shall co-finance the monitoring of environmental air quality factors in Slavonski Brod on that activity. In accordance with the proposal of the Institute of Public Health of the Ship-Posavina County, there is no need for additional sources of funding relating to monitoring the impact study of environmental factors on human health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78051	There is no representative of Mira Bulj and we will vote on this amendment. Representative Marija Selak Rasudić 319.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78052	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78054	So what I asked for this amendment is that the amount of improvement in health care quality is increased by 500,000 kuna, and only 250,000 kuna is foreseen here. We know that in terms of health care when we talk about this particular pandemic, the need for health care has increased mostly in the prevention system at all levels because we will only come to collect the real results and consequences of this pandemic in the form of all those who have refused to come to different preventive but regular checks due to the high number of Covidom-19 infected. In this regard, we believe that additional resources should be provided, we do not accept this argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78055	Dear Representative Selak Rasdić 320.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78056	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78058	Here we asked a pack to secure an amount of 5 million kuna with one specific purpose, which is to invest in an educational recreational centre and a resort for people with diabetes. Diabetes is a major problem in Croatia at the level of recognition, so about half a million people, almost half a million people suffer from diabetes, and in fact it's an even bigger unrecognized problem because many people who suffer from diabetes are not even aware of it and come to doctors when it's too late. Also, the particular risk of diabetes is exposed to pregnant women, and they lack the necessary education to recognise diabetes in time and to prevent its effects both per pregnant and per child. We believe that people with diabetes do not have adequate medical care or the possibility of rehabilitation, so it is necessary to allocate funds for their recreational centre and resort. It is a large number of Croatian citizens. We will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78059	Dear Representative Katarina Peović, 321.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78060	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In the position of support in providing health care to international protection seekers, funds are provided in accordance with the signed grant agreement for the implementation of 5P projects, disease prevention, promotion and health protection, psychological support, access and assistance to health care seekers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78061	- Mrs. Crescent. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78062	Yeah, maybe we shouldn't really be looking for health care since we're killing migrants at the border. This is another unpopular amendment. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm here asking what our mission is? Is it our job to provide the local community with more resources to fight each other whether Istria or Zagreb will have more money? Or is it our job to actually locate illogicalities here in this budget? And the illogicalities are unpopular amendments that don't bring votes in the elections, but they have to be located, and that's what I'm glad that other colleagues and colleagues joined here and suggested the same amendment as we do, that means marking the memories of all totalitarian authoritarian regimes, the item in the budget that was introduced last year in the Coronal year, we introduce 100,000 kunas for historical auditism, each time means that day, and this marking is actually trying to work socialist anti-fascist movement equalize with the fascist movement in every situation, Andrej Plenkovic talks only about victims of the communist regime, and fascism and Nazism just serves as a cultis in equating these ideas. The National Liberation Antifascist Movement is based on this state and constitutional basis, reflected in the decisions of ZAVOH and the legitimate source of Croatian statehood. Therefore, our constitution does not refer to the Ustasha puppet NDH, I guess it is also necessary to start speaking here in the Assembly because it was contrary to state sovereignty, and the Nuremberg processes called it occupied territory, so NDH. Therefore, I invite you, colleagues and colleagues, to start looking at these articles of the Budget. I will ask that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78063	Dear Representative Damir Byce has amendment No. 322.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78064	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In that position, the Ministry of Health plans emergency interventions on buildings and equipment for health institutions. With the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for '23. And '24. in that position, an amount of 43 211 603 kuna has been secured and it has been estimated that it is sufficient to provide intervention funds for healthcare institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78065	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78066	When the Government of the Republic of Croatia sends to the HS Budget, it does not expect to change. The amendments that the opposition makes, they're almost 450 here, they're actually almost never accepted. However, it is my pleasure that the two amendments that I have made that mention the General Hospital of Bjelovar, which is covered by this amendment, are followed by two HDZ amendments. That actually means we've reached our goal. In fact, no project related to the Bjelovar-Bjelovar County has been announced in the 2022 Budget, nor is it the one that is being created or planned in 2022 or the General Hospital Bjelovar. I must point out that my amendment makes it perfectly clear that this is a hospital equipment that was eventually given to her and used permission during the crown, I don't even have to mention how important it is. Otherwise, the prime minister said it would be in the 2022 budget, so it was missed. What I would point out is that, finally, when we talk about support in health care institutions, we support, for example, a hospital in Pula, I strongly support it, should invest in our regional and county hospitals. 37 million kuna is scheduled to be budgeted for 2022. I support, of course, that, if it is necessary to intervene in BiH, in Mostar, 42 million kunas for that hospital were transferred there. However, I also think we should invest with us. Bjelovar General Hospital, the new building is only the 3rd County Hospital after Zabok and... Istria, which is built in 30 and a few years of Croatian history, and I think we need to take that step. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Accordingly, I believe that my amendment will obviously not pass, but we have come up with a reaction, a reaction of ruling, authorities and the only 2 amendments that will be accepted by HDZ deputies, which is extremely rare, are related to the same amendment practically related to OB Bjelovar and thus, I would say that we have done what we should, and that is that we have helped, not as much as we should, another 6 million kuna that will be approved by the Ministry of Health is not enough, it is beneath what is given to others, but on the other hand, It's better than nothing. [[Thank you, thank you. Mr. Bice.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78067	Are you asking for a vote? Okay. [[Intruder: Of course, I'm asking for a vote.]] I have to ask. Representative, distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilić, 323.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78068	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The financial resources are planned in accordance with the activities and deadlines defined in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan '21-'26. and these are sufficient given the defined dynamics of implementation of reforms and investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78069	- Here you go, Mrs. President. Bad Billic. Online.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78070	Thank you very much. Well, I believe that, I believe then that the funds will be realised because, here we know that in most Croatian hospitals, incubators are worn out, outdated, here, for a good part of them producers no longer even provide spare parts. And here, I'm glad you recognized the justification for the purchase of new devices and the investment in neonatology. In general, here we have seen that the health budget is shrinking by.../incomprehensible./... billions compared to the previous.../incomprehensible/... whether concerned. I don't think that's a good message since here we invest in hospitals all over the world while here's the situation in our hospitals is not exactly at an envious level, and the minimum we can do is just invest for our youngest and babies in the most vulnerable stages. Here is my thanks if such a proposal will be accepted and implemented through the budget or through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78071	You're looking for a vote. Mrs. Big Billic, you're asking for a vote. It didn't sound like it. Yeah. Club of Representatives of the Centre and Voice number 324.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78072	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The funds in this accounting position are planned for the intervention of medicinal products that appear on the market and are not yet included in the list of HZZs. Since it is exclusively about the temporary financing of the supply of the medicinal product for the period from the market to the inclusion of the product on the list of HZZO according to the estimated three-year plan, it is not necessary to ensure an increase in financial resources, therefore the proposed amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78073	Mrs. Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78074	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is an item called the Medicines Fund that is not on the list of medicinal products of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. And it's about an increase of one million and three hundred and thirty thousand kuna. So it's about those medicines that are related to rare diseases of which not so small and very often suffer children. The crisis must not be and cannot be a chance to save on the most vulnerable as every year we witness a lack of resources for non-HZZO medicines we have decided to go with this amendment and we are looking for a vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78075	Thank you, too. Now I take the chance to say, now I've been informed that we're going to work until 9:00, so it's planned nine and a half, I remind you, for the Zagrebers by half past ten. Representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic, your Honor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78076	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Health Protection Act obliges founders to provide funds for investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, spaces, medical and non-medical equipment. Since the founder of the special hospital Krapina-Zagorska County is obliged to provide those funds for the project Vidra-early intervention from the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78077	Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78078	Thank you. For half ten, it applies to us who are not from Zagreb, but we are from the surrounding area and listen.../incomprehensible. [[Intruder: yes]] Wider, wider a little. [[Adversity: goes wider than Zagreb]] You see very interesting. So your initial setting is really interesting to me. So 90 percent of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are treated at the Krapina Spa Special Hospital. Right now, the Department of Health doesn't care about her at all, so people don't have the money to pay, let alone the Christmases. I'm sending you memos you're not answering and you're not answering why? Because you're completely incompetent. So the entire Department of Health, and that's why through this early intervention project, let me first explain to you where the money comes from. Of course from the cost of services. Of course, by 5 million kuna, it reduces the possibility of getting software that makes you in the Ministry of Health even more famous than Gabriela Žalac per so-called. Giving money to that flower shop in Upper Stubice that I was supposed to do some software. But let's get back to the cor. This could be a little bit like this for me to fight with you. So it's an early intervention, children who are born with a neuro-risk factor, so where there is no in the Krapina-Zagorje County area, either a team or an institution, but children attend programs in other institutions outside Krapina-Zagorje County either at the Autism Centre, either in Suvag, or in Tuškanc, either in Goljak, or in the logo cabinets, and it's very important because the need for a mobile expert team service has been demonstrated to facilitate children with difficulties, especially their parents' full integration into pre-school education and a wider community, and the Krapin-Zagorska County is therefore because of the inability to support from early intervention, in fact, through this project is trying to solve a major regional project, so I see that you don't care absolutely care about a special hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78079	Voting, yes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78080	Excuse me. I'm asking for a vote, not a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78081	Listen however you want. Dear Representative Katarina Peović, who is surely.../incomprehensible/ to nine and a half 326.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78082	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted and the amount provided under Chapter 09620 of the Health Institution owned by the State applies mainly to the European Funds, international loans, and the financing of capital investments under the already concluded agreements and defined financial frameworks is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78083	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78084	Well, I have to admit, I didn't quite understand why this amendment isn't being accepted, but let's repeat what we've all been doing over and over again. So by 2022, there is a reduction in the separation of the Ministry of Health in relation to the plan for this year by more than 4 billion kuna. With HZZO, it's 6.4 billion kuna, which is unrealistic, given the COVID 19 virus pandemic. In addition, it is also planned to reduce the allocation for state-owned health institutions. The minister announced on the other hand a health reform that will centralise health care, and the state will take control of many health institutions and institutions under county control. So it is unrealistic to reduce the amount of health care institutions owned by the State if that State takes care of these health institutions. On the other hand, where we took it from, it means the University of Famous Defence and Security. We are told, when we set up a very vibrating law like this, you would even say, the Law on the University of Defence and Security which introduced the possibility of not carrying out accreditation for the only university study in the state and to establish this University, then we are told that the establishment of this university does not require additional funding from the budget. So it's not clear at all how these funds were found here at all, so it's been asked here that simply those funds that are not needed, like 24 million kunas, are now appearing here, that they are given for health institutions in the hands of the state, so I'm going to ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78085	Okay. 327 amendment of the representative of Marija Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78086	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The funds in this budgetary position are planned for the intervention of medicinal products that appear on the market and are not yet included on the list of HZZOs, since it is exclusively about the temporary financing of the supply of the medicinal product for the period from the market to its inclusion on the list of HZZOs according to the estimated three-year plan no need to ensure an increase in financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78087	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78088	I do not accept the argument, and I will sue that amendment is to be voted on. I've been asking for a non-HZZO drug fund to increase by an additional half a million kuna. Why? Parents of sick children daily warn that they do not have sufficient resources to enable the healing and often the survival of their children. For this reason, they were forced to rely heavily on humanitarian aid rather than on the state’s activities regarding child protection. This practice must change urgently, so as we see on a daily basis these additional resources that are necessary and which can save lives should be provided by the state and not collected among our citizens. I'll ask him to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78089	Thank you. 328. Honorable representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78090	Thank you very much, the amendment is not accepted. The proposed amount secured on K882002 Clinical Hospital Center Rijeka, Direct Capital Investments, Source of financing 11, is sufficient for the purchase of planned medical equipment for KBC Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78091	Thank you, Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78092	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, when you say so, it turns out that our clinical centres have everything they need and that really ours, we all together as patients can get the best possible care. In particular, it is about obtaining an intra-operative radiotherapy device that gives extremely high doses of radiation one time to an area affected by a tumour that is targetedly destroying tumour cells, without damaging surrounding tissue. Regarding this device were collection actions that were suspended at some point. The only such device in our home is the Clinical Hospital Center of the Mercy Sisters who made this device recently and about it was in our media a great report. No one, therefore, is the only device at Croatia's level. And this is the device used most in breast cancer surgery, where about 40% of patients can be treated in this way and another part of the combination of this and classical radio therapy. What does that mean? It means it can also be used in gynecology, both in the head and neck tumors, even in some pancreas and colon tumors. But what's important is that the patients don't have to wait for the wound to heal, but they don't come to the hospitals for long-term radio therapy, they're already very significantly shortening their overall duration. And now instead of having such a device has every clinical center in the Republic of Croatia, the KBC, that it can really treat the sick in quality, you say very easily that it has enough resources. Well, if he had enough resources and had already been safe, we would have gotten it ourselves, and we didn't do it, and I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78093	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Bulj, 329.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78094	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amount for the Investment in Health Infrastructure programme relates mainly to European funds, international loans, and co-financing of capital investments under already concluded agreements, and defined financial frameworks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78095	He is not present, so he will vote or vote however you wish, for me anyway on this amendment. 330 distinguished representative Sanja Radolović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78096	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The activities of KBC Rijeka Direct Capital Investments are planned to provide sufficient resources for the purchase of the necessary medical devices and equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78097	Here you are, Mrs. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78098	I thank you here, I am so glad that the amendment for the amendment for me and my colleagues, Anka Mrak Taritash, are actually the same amendments, relating to the purchase of the same apparatus for, the intra-operial radiation device and I will remind you, that the Donna Europe Association was starting to collect funds as early as 2012, they started to pick up a molecule of the resolution ministry, so the action had to be cut off, so 5 million kunas couldn't be collected. We're talking about 5 million kunas for an intra-operative radiation device. However, you say the funds are secured. I can tell you, therefore, directly that as far as KBC Rijeka is concerned that I am sure that you did not provide these funds because from the KBC itself they told me that the situation is such that they are asked to obtain such a device, I will also remind you that the Constitution guarantees the same level of healthcare and I do not see why only one device would be so in Zagreb. Are we from other parts of the Republic of Croatia citizens of the second order? I appeal to you to obtain such a same device in the KBC of Rijeka, and to KBC of Split and KBC Osijek, and therefore we have it in Zagreb. It should also be said that with this intra-operal radiation apparatus patients would be, the vast majority of them irradiated in one day and not only to achieve much better health outcomes but to naturally reduce waiting lists. So places would be opened for other patients because they would automatically decrease by the number of patients who would irradiate during surgery alone. I'll also remind you that parallelly while we don't have 5 million kunas on that device, so 3 more needs to be obtained in the Republic of Croatia, 15 million kunas, we're paralleling 40 million kunas to the hospital in Mostar, while we don't have the money to treat our citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78099	Voting, voting, yeah? Okay. [[Clip intrusion: Yes, yes]] Honorable representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, 331. Here you go, dear secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78100	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The activities of KBC Osijek direct capital investment have been planned to provide sufficient resources for the purchase of the necessary medical devices and equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78101	Here you go, Mrs. President. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78102	Thank you very much. Please admit that I'm surprised by the ease in which the secretary of state refuses our amendments. So I have given 4 amendments, in these 4 amendments is a word in each 5 million kuna amendment for interoperable radio therapy for the needs of KC Rijeka, Osijek, Split and Zagreb. There are no KBCs in Zagreb, but they have "Sisters of Mercy". It seems to me like it's some kind of minimum standard we should have. We can't treat and you can't treat patients like doctors if the device isn't there, so the devices a month ago were really in our media when the "Sisters of Mercy" when it was installed then everyone there boasted and talked about how important and how significant it is, so only a part of the patients will have a chance. We're talking about 5 million kuna per device, we're talking about 4 centers is 20 million kuna. Which, by ease, millions of kunas are being transferred from one item to another item, I will not mention the items of the Ministry of Defence and everything else, and here you are, in fact, in your own way, which is just as easy to refuse the amendments, making it impossible for patients to get quality health care. Of course, I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78103	Thank you. Representatives' Club Bridge 332.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78104	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The activities of KBC Split direct capital investment have been planned with sufficient resources to obtain the necessary medical devices and equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78105	- Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78106	I do not accept the argument and we will ask that this amendment be voted on. In fact, we asked for the KBC Split item to be direct capital investments, the purchase of diagnostic devices to increase by an additional 10 million kuna. In addition to the lack of frame KBC Split the big problem presents him with a lack of adequate equipment. In fact, because of old appliances and waiting lists, they're growing as the patient's pressure gets stronger. Split's KBC annually receives from half to a million patients from all over Dalmatia, neighbouring BiH, and in the season and numerous tourists, and after Zagreb's second hospital of importance in Croatia. While the Split KBC is the only large hospital in the region in Zagreb, the same number of people available has as much as 7 hospitals. We therefore believe that there is a need to allocate additional resources to obtain new devices that would significantly help improve the quality of work and reduce existing waiting lists and we will ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78107	Amendment 333 of Honorable Representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78108	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78109	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78110	Thank you very much. As I was already on the previous two amendments when I was talking about the same device about the same amount of 5 million kuna, it was the first time KBC Rijeka, so KBC Osijek, is now KBC Split. I am a representative who has been elected to the 1st constituency, but I am a representative of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore I have been through my amendments, not only to one KBC but to 4 KBC because I think they should all have the same rights and the same opportunities to be treated in quality. So there's a device, there's already indicators of how good it is at treating, there's really that after surgery you can access it immediately. It's a great success in treating that device. Where? In other countries, but in Croatia not because Croatia, Croatian health, the Ministry of Health has no will, no sense, no hearing to obtain such devices to make life easier for patients first, and then to their doctors, of course. So please vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78111	Thank you. In 334, the amendment was respected... 334 yes, distinguished MPs Marija Selak Rasudić. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amount provided for in Section 096 of the Health Ministry for the 3602 Health Infrastructure Investment programme is sufficient for the implementation of planned investments in health infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78113	There you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78114	I do not accept the explanation, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on because it is a very concrete and very important amendment for nearly half a million of our citizens suffering from diabetes. Half a million citizens and asking for a half a million kuna increase, so that's just one kuna per our diabetic. And what's this about? It's about breaking their legal rights to store medical waste. Namely, one of the pains that they are struggling with diabetes refers to the disposal of medical waste. More specifically, it is about insulin needles, sugar tape latettes, sensors, and spent material for an insulin pump. All these orthopaedic aids that the sick use daily as a protocol in life with diabetes. The relevant Waste Management Act states that until the entry into force of the Regulation they remain in force of the Rules on the management of medical waste, there is a serious problem with implementation in practice. The said rules state that recycling yards and additions to the regulation that health institutions are obliged to collect medical waste from natural persons and to take care of it in a prescribed manner. And that's where we get the problem that the rules don't apply in practice. In other words, we get complaints from people with diabetes that their medical waste has not been received either in recycling yards or in health institutions. Therefore, we are asking that half a million kuna be allocated to medical waste tanks, and a place of medical waste where people with diabetes can uninterruptedly put their waste away by day-to-day consumers. I really can't believe you won't accept this amendment, because it solves a serious problem that people with diabetes have where their basic right to store their medical waste is denied. I'll ask him to vote, and I hope you change your mind by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78115	Thank you very much. Amendment number 335. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78116	Thank you very much. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78117	It becomes an integral part of the draft budget, the state budget. The 336th Honorable MPs of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78118	The amendment is not accepted. The activities of direct capital investments of the Clinical Hospital Centre Zagreb have been planned with sufficient resources to obtain the necessary medical devices and equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78119	There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78120	Thank you very much. As I have said so far about this amendment is about 4 clinical centres Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka. It is an increase of five million kunas and it is that this increase would provide a device called an intra-operial radio therapy device. All four clinical hospital centres I'm thinking should have it. As already said at one point, funds were being collected, so this collection was interrupted, but I absolutely think it is unacceptable that in this way some basic tools that should have tools that allow people to be more rehabilitated after the procedure, to make the whole process easier and easier. So, four times five million kunas, I think it's a drop in the sea of this budget. But as almost all day except in exceptional cases, we hear that it is not accepted, of course, that it is not accepted this time. But maybe someone from HDZ reads and sees that it would be good, so at the next budget he proposes, so let's just rewrite and suggest and get it and make it better and ask that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78121	Dear Representative Katarina Peović, 337.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78122	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In line with the proposed reform measures, the Ministry of Health draws particular attention to the activities and actions of revitalisation of the production of the Immunological Institute. Since the construction of a new factory is under way, which will define the overall transaction process from the transfer of founding rights, the launch of production, the construction of the new factory, the proposed amount will not be realised in 2022. Additional financial resources for that investment investment will be provided in the coming financial years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78123	Here you go, Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78124	Well, it's fascinating, so your Minister Beros announced the construction of that hospital and it takes us two years to collect the documentation. I have to admit, I can't believe it. The Immunological Institute is very important and I certainly welcome that you will renew it and I think it is an excellent decision by Minister Beroša, but I doubt your intentions because the State Budget proposal for 2022 means that the Immunological Institute provides for an even smaller amount than that of 44 million kuna last year. This is certainly an insufficient amount in view of this announced renewal and launch of the Immunological Institute and the announced construction and new factory in St. Sunday. So it's quite clear that you won't be building a factory this year either. Right? We won't, okay. Immunologically, therefore, has been collapsing for years, and the intervention of some medicines has increased dramatically. At the moment of the covid 19 crisis and wholesale blackmail due to the largest pandemics, they decide to suspend the delivery of medicinal products it is necessary to invest, means resources in the production of domestic drugs and medical equipment. The Immunological Institute is a facility that has had a tradition for over 150 years and at this point, we really need the Coronation Virus. I'll just remind you that Immunologically he was able to produce high-quality blood products, immune biological drugs, anti-snap antibodies, bacterial but also viral vaccines. Among the world-famous vaccines was a vaccine against measles considered to be one of the best in the world. Since production has ceased in the immunological vaccine for mumps, five times the price has been obtained. A vaccine for diphtheria and tetanus more than 10 times the price and for suspicious imports of medicinal products from 2015 to 2019 has been paid more than 1.7 billion kuna. So when we're being blackmailed, let's be honest how much money we could save to have an immunology. I'll ask to vote on that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78125	You want to vote? Vice-President Vesna Vucilovic has amendment number 338, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Health shall co-finance the activities of the Croatian Institute of Public Health related to the measures of healthcare. How health care financing is implemented in accordance with the Health Insurance Act, which is provided in the positions of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. There is no need to increase the amount on that activity, and the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78127	Thank you. Mrs. Vukemilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course I don't agree with the explanation and I ask that this amendment be voted on, because when we had a budget rebalance in six months, I gave the same amendment, it was rejected. The amendment was also voted against by the mayor of Osijek Ivan Radic and then a few months later he and Mayor Anusic and Mayor of Vukovar Ivan Penava asked that the government help them treat mosquitoes, because they believe or not those little bloodsuckers are making life very difficult for us Slavons during the summer and it is worth the debt "stay home not because of Covid but because of the mosquitoes". I therefore do not understand why the budget already provides for aid, because this year the City of Osijek has a record budget of one billion kuna, but for mosquitoes only 4.6 million kuna is allocated in the budget of the City of Osijek, which is not enough at all. And now I have to wonder if it's important to call myself Ivan or to be a member of the HDZ when additional funds are required for mosquitoes, even if it is then an former HDZ member because it is then approved? And this way, we can take care of it immediately in the budget, but every year it's done neatly. So I'm asking again this year to vote on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78129	Thank you very much. 339. It's the Bridge Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78130	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The current Health Protection Act obliges the founder to provide funds for investment and investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, premises, medical and non-medical equipment and means of transport, and to inform health activities in accordance with the plan and programme of health care measures and a network of public health services for health institutions whose founders are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78131	Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78132	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I already don't know which way I'm going to hear the explanation in translation that means it's not in your jurisdiction, but it's in the jurisdiction of the city or the county of whoever the founder is. It is interesting, at the same time, when HDZ proposes some amendment or someone else who is more acceptable to you, which concerns equipment or the construction of a hospital system, and then they are no longer the founder's obligations, but that amendment can be respected. I'll beg you to have unique criteria. This is about the health system and it serves the well-being of all our citizens, when you accept or reject amendments, and not to give us these flossules of reasoning that show in practice double standards when it comes to the same interest of the HDZ that proposes the amendment or in this case us out of opposition. So, I've been listening to your arguments. For HDZ, these arguments that everything on the founder is not worth it. I'm going to ask you to have the same standards for everyone. We have here suggested that in the 2022 budget funds be provided for Daruvarske spas. Development of a special form of health tourism through the addition and introduction of new content because there is already an idea solution, and then it would be built a new hospital pavilion with 140 beds while turning the Hotel Termal into a modern wellness hotel. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the need for health tourism in the next period will grow for logical reasons, and I will ask you not to sell empty stories when you give us reasons why you do not want to accept our amendments. You can tell right here that even mosquitoes have or don't have HDZ's card.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78133	340 also Club of Representatives Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78134	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78135	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78136	And here's the point. Here we have asked that financial resources be provided in this budget for the construction of the new building of the General Hospital Bjelovar and additional equipment of the General Hospital Bjelovar. The purchase of medical equipment and diagnostic and therapeutic devices and other non-medical equipment necessary for the operation of day-to-day surgery and day-to-day hospital. If I have listened well before, the same amendments have come from other opposition MPs, and imagine from the HDZ ranks. The answer to me was that it was all on the founder, and the response to HDZ was that their amendment was accepted. Will that be the only way to ask you this as a rhetorical question, in this hospital and receive only those who have the HDZ card, or will they be the only ones in line to receive adequate medical care that all Croatian citizens should deserve? According to your reasons, it's clear that the answer to this is my rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78137	What about the vote? A vote is required. It is now Amendment 341 of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78138	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78139	Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78140	Thank you. It is about the new position of co-financing of standards of services that are not in the jurisdiction of local self-government, the emergency assistance of Poreč. With regard to co-financing of various services not within the competence of local self-government, additional financing of emergency assistance should be launched as a result of the maintenance of standards that we must have in order to increase the number of residents. We're not happy with the answer and we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78141	342 of the same club of IDS representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78142	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78143	Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78144	Yes, let's say when a school is being built, a high school which is the founder of the county, then let's say the city in which that school is being built can be part of co-financing, so we believe that even when we talk about health care regardless of those hospitals where the founder of the county is, the state should have an interest in co-financed projects that are trying to be implemented in that county, in that general hospital. So also on the proposal of this amendment last week I spoke, and it has already been mentioned several times when we are building hospitals abroad as in Mostar then we have money, but as time goes by, it's increasingly clear to us why, and next year I believe that we will start putting bus tickets in one direction towards that destination for our fellow citizens. Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78145	343. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78146	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. HZZO is an out-of- budget beneficiary of the state budget and is not included in the budget plan of the budget user at division 096 of the Ministry of Health funds for investment and ongoing maintenance of buildings owned by HZZO plans under its financial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78147	Honorable representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78148	Thank you. This is about reconstruction and construction of the building in which HZO Poreč is located. The building is, the building itself is owned by the state, it is necessary to reconstruct the building and install the elevator. This amendment seeks to provide funds for reconstruction until institutions move to an appropriate location. We're not happy with the answer, we're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78149	344. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The current Health Protection Act obliges the founder to provide funds for investment investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, medical and non-medical equipment and means of transport and to inform health activities in accordance with the plan and programme of health care measures and the network of public health services for health institutions whose founders are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78151	Dear Representative Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78152	We are also not satisfied with this explanation and we are looking for a vote on this issue because we believe that we need an emergency reconstruction of the building of the Infectious Department of General Pula Hospital due to the need to hospitalise patients with suspected or symptoms of Covid-19 infection. There's also something we've heard in the past few months, and that's Beroshe's health reform. Look, you're the one who predicted in this budget at the health ministry's item of 16 billion kuna. Every year, and last year, we're going to spend 38 billion kuna. If we were dealing with serious reform, and we know that 75% of all debts are created by state-owned hospitals, then maybe if we had made a quality reform, we would have solved the problems of debt within health, then we might have more money to try to solve the problems that the general hospitals have or those places that try to keep their financial operations within certain limits. So we're looking for a vote and finally some shifts in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78153	345. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78154	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78155	Mr. Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78156	And my argument is the same, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78157	346. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78158	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78159	Mr. Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78160	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State I know it's not just up to you and you have to tell you what they're saying or writing, but look at Dr. S.H.I.E.L.D. Martin Horvat is one special story. The Supreme Manager of Mr. Rade who manages the hospital with his people, many enthusiasms, many are invested by Istrian County and the town of Rovinj. In about 10-15 years, the hospital has made tremendous progress in all segments. In addition, in recent years he has been operating positively so well that they have also had revenues transferred that have been able to bridge these longitudes now with Covid. International conventions, health robotics, 21st century health care. And there is a demand for co-financing of 13 million kunas for the reconstruction of the children's department of special hospital so it is a centre that will multidisciplinaryly, integratedly access the treatment and rehabilitation of the paediatric population, which will contain a new polyclinic, new departments for physical therapy, sensory rooms, a new hospital department with 35 beds built on the principle of motherhood, or on which parents will be able to stay with their child. All of this by reconstructing, by adapting only one building that is held slightly over 2,000 squares of useful surface. And this is really one not only commendable project but needed by this country. And in such situations, it's expected that if you can't get $13 million to be given 50% for 2-3 years to somehow help. I say Istrian County, the town of Rovinj helps as much as they can, so some state finally recognizes, this is the hospital of the 21st century. We expect the state to understand what's in its own country. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78161	347 also Club of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78162	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78163	Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78164	Thank you. It is about a new position of Istrian health homes, the restoration of radiological diagnostics with digitization. Renovate radiological diagnostics with digitisation is required. Radiological diagnostics of Istrian health homes to obtain diagnostic information, images on all active modes use fully analogue technology. That is why digitisation needs to be restored. We're not happy with the answer, and I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78165	348th same club of IDS representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78166	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78167	Mr. Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78168	Thank you very much. It's about the Istrian health homes about the outpost in Labin. Energy reconstruction of the building is planned worth 24 million kuna. The funds allocated to the budget of the units of local self-government or the units of several of them in the area of Labinstina are not sufficient and we believe that these funds or at least part of them should be provided through the state budget and we are certainly asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78169	And 349. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78170	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78171	350 And I'm sorry to say that, Mr. Daus, here you go. [[- Is that okay? May I?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78172	Thank you very much. Well, yes, let me conclude these amendments. It is a health home in Pazin which is also a centre for breast disease in Istria County or good part of Istria County, it is necessary to adapt the building home of health with the introduction of new health facilities, it is envisaged to get a new space for the central medical biochemical laboratory of all locations of Istrian homes of health and new offices of family and dental medicine with belonging facilities. Besides, like I said, getting space that way and for the breast disease center. The idea project provides for energy reconstruction of the building. It's a former-state building, all in glass, big, big electricity consumption, and we expect state aid on the project, it's 10 and a half million kuna. We demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78173	Thank you very much, Mr. Daus. And now we move on to amendment of Vice-President Sabine Voter 350. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78175	There is no voter's representative, so we'll vote on the amendment. 351st Honored Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78176	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Health in that special part of the Institute and agencies and other budget users in the health system at the position of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute is funding the activities of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute. The planned expenditure in the proposal of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for '22. and a projection for '23. and '24. In order to carry out the activities of the Institute, they shall be sufficient for regular business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78177	I don't see counsel Lenart, so we'll vote on this amendment. 352. Representative Andreja Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78178	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Vaccination of citizens through mobile teams is only one of the forms of healthcare provided for under the HZZO financial plan. The above-mentioned amendment is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78179	- Mrs. Crescent. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78180	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am not satisfied with the explanation and I request a vote on this amendment. The estimated funds you listed are not enough and the number of mobile teams that are on the ground is not enough. It is important for all of us to get out of the pandemic of Covida-19 as soon as possible, it is very important that our citizens, especially the older citizens and those with the co-morbidities, be split more resolutely. And since many people are difficult to move and do not have the possibility of being brought to vaccine checkpoints, especially at this time of winter, and family medicine doctors are overburdened to split them all on house visits, then there should be additional funds for the mentioned mobile teams containing doctors and nurses, or technicians, who would then be vaccinated by such immobilized citizens. I therefore believe that these funds that I have listed would be a reasonable sum, and I repeat ask that this amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78181	Thank you. Also respected representative Andreja Maric number 353.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78182	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The vaccination of citizens is only one of the forms of providing health care services for which the funds are provided under the HZZO financial plan. In order to ensure adequate availability, vaccination is carried out in the offices of selected doctors and specially organised checkpoints at several locations in the county and towns, and in the house of immobilised persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78183	Dear Representative Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78184	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am also not satisfied with the explanation and I ask that the amendment be voted on. Similarly to what I have stated and in the previous explanation, the goal is to divide as much as possible in the shortest possible time, especially the vulnerable group, means our older citizens. The big problem is how to split up the immobile and difficult moving citizens. What you have stated is not enough, so family medicine doctors are overloaded, they can't do everything in their offices, not all immobilized citizens can go to vaccinated checkpoints and there aren't enough mobile teams. Therefore, one of the ideas is, in fact, the transportation of citizens to vaccination via sanity. So sanity transport can't be hired like that, of course, but if a doctor of family medicine would call for a Sanitary transport that maybe more and more citizens from some village would take it to a vaccine point, then it would make it far easier for our immobilized citizens precisely to be vaccinated as soon as possible. I made the calculation, of course, and in one of the amendments you refused, you said there was no valid calculation, so here you probably know better than all of us how much it costs to dream 10 kuna per mile, so while you pay the technician 80 kuna, the driver of about 70 kuna, means driving a sanity average of 350 to 400 kuna if it was predicted by these additional funds and additional involvement of the sanity I think it would be a good opportunity and a solution to divide our immobilized and difficult mobile citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78185	The 354th Honored Representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78186	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. In force of the Health Protection Act... to provide funds for investment investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, premises, medical and non-medical equipment and means of transport, and to inform health activities in accordance with... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] and a programme of health care measures and a network of public health services for health institutions whose founders are. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78187	There you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78188	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Here's the first time today I'm going to ask for a vote on the amendment right now, so you don't have to remind me. Therefore, the above amendment concerns the reconstruction of the department of Infectology and Psychology at Pula General Hospital despite a major investment that finally took place after 30 g. begging in the infrastructure of Pula General Hospital itself. Indeed, inhumane conditions and work and stay for patients in the psych ward itself, where literally the external noise is falling off as well as internally, more wires from the ceiling, more wires from the walls, not to mention sanitary knots. The same situation is also in the Department of Infectology where slightly improved only by changes in the external carpentry, however, it is not nearly enough. I am not even aware of why these two departments are very important, and I could say human departments, the Psychology Department in particular, but also the Infectology Department, which has now proved to be in these conditions of the Covid 19 pandemic, why they remained out of investment in Pula General Hospital and the amendment itself refers to the reconstruction of those two departments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78189	Also respected representative Radolović 325.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78190	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78191	Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78192	Thank you. I am not satisfied with the argument given, and I request a vote on the above-mentioned amendment. Two and a half thousand doctors, four and a half thousand nurses and technicians are missing in Croatia today, according to data from the Croatian Medical Chamber. There's no better situation in Istria County either. All of this happened due to the intensification of labour migration, due to this pandemic covid 19 virus. The only way I can see that it can be helped, so health care is in some way to motivate them by at least resolving the housing issue. For example, in the Istrian County budget as I see it and in the state budget is provided part of the funds to subsidise interest on loans. But personally, I don't think that's a good enough motive and that in every environment where possible, here in Pula, it can be done in a Navy hospital building in an ex-government annex that remains empty. So it's not given the right to build a university. You can build housing units for the medical staff. I think that's how we're gonna motivate our doctors, nurses and technicians to move to a local environment where there's no medical personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78193	Dear Representative Franco Vidovic 356.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78194	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78195	He is not present, so he will vote on this amendment. Dear Representative Miro Bulj, 357.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78196	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78197	And this amendment will be voted on. Dear Representative Miro Totgergeli, 358.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78198	The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form, so as to read as follows: ‘In accordance with Article 38. The budget law in the draft national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024 in the special section under division 096 of the Ministry of Health of the 3602 Investment in Health Infrastructure is added to the new position of Bjelovar General Hospital. Source of financing 11 general incomes and receipts of group 36 aid given abroad and within the general budget. Sub-group 366 assists other budget budgets of 17 million EUR 699 176 kuna in 2022. In the draft budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and projections for 2023 and 2024 in the special section under division 096, the Ministry of Health to the activities of the A618207 administration and management and sub-group 366 of assistance to other budgets is reduced by 17 million 699 thousand 176 kuna in 2022, which amounts to 85 million 500 000 824 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78199	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I accept the amendment in this changed form.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78201	And it becomes so in changed form an integral part of the proposal for a state budget. Dear Representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic 359.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78202	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The current Health Protection Act obliges founders to provide funds for investment, investment and ongoing maintenance of health institutions, medical, non-medical equipment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78203	So you're giving the same answer you've given before. If you play pamphlets on different daily newspapers first, you will nationalize, i.e. That you're actually going to put under government control all the special hospitals and county hospitals, and now here you're saying it's the founder's thing. So it's not the founder's thing because money is in principle, because it is the founder of a flow boiler, and new to the public health system in Croatia is provided by the state. So he also provides it for county hospitals, provides it for special hospitals. So I repeat this special hospital project for the medical rehabilitation of the Krapina spa reconstruction of the heating and ventilation plant where it is located once again I will repeat 90% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, not Krapina-Zagorje or Varazdin County. I'm helping you again, and I'm taking down 10 million kunas on material expenditures, service expenses, so that it doesn't happen to us, but in this example, software 22, and I'm asking for a vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78204	Also respected representative Hajdash Doncic, 360.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78205	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78206	To speed up the explanation of my answer as well as the previous amendment. I just think that you're doing the wrong thing, that you're doing the wrong thing, and that by political criteria and political key alone, you've given something that you've now given to some MP who's come from HDZ, so I think about the hospital, I think in Bjelovar that I don't mind but only because it was the HDZ amendment that might have come from this side and on your part, the main thing is that it's logical. So, you do not support or accept a similar amendment to the General Hospital of Zabok and the Croatian Veterans Hospital. This is strengthening the physical capacities of the General Hospital Zabok, i.e. procurement of equipment that will improve the quality of operation of the General Hospital, so through operational pillars, CTs, Saugers, drills, etc. You say no to all of this, and again I want to help you, and I'm actually reducing the cost of this service again to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for 7 million kunas, so we don't have an affair of software 25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78207	Thank you, too. And what varsity sees right into frittata 10. And now we're going to the Department of Justice and Administration. Fleet nine, frittata nine. At the Department of Justice and Administration, Secretary of State Sanjin Rukavin. The representative, the first representative, is number 361, MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78208	Thank you, Vice-President, the amendment is not accepted within the framework of the A634012 Action Promotion and the monitoring of the results of the work from the jurisdiction of the State's attorneys at all levels, the funds planned in the proposal of the State budget to ensure the implementation of all the activities in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78209	There is no representative Mirela Ahmetovic, so we will have to vote on this amendment. Dear Representative Željko Sacic submitted Amendment number 362.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78210	Thank you very much, the amendment is not accepted, within the framework of the activity of 634000 Persecution of the perpetrator of criminal offences of protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia and the submission of legal remedies for the protection of legality, the resources planned in the proposal of the State budget ensure the implementation of all the activities in the event of unforeseen circumstances and needs, the funds will be provided by the competent Ministry of Justice and Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78211	There's no Mr. Sacic. So from, please, please, there's no Mr. Sacic, and then we'll vote on this amendment, Mr. Hajdash Doncic. You see that I alter the vote, vote depending on the opportunity. 363 also respected representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78212	The amendment is not accepted. Funds for activities A642000 Persecution of perpetrators of criminal and criminal offences and protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia against competent courts and bodies planned in the proposal of the State budget shall ensure the implementation of all the activities in question. In the event of unforeseen circumstances and the need for funds will be provided by the competent Ministry of Justice and Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78213	And we will vote on this amendment. 364, same agent, Zeljko Sacic. Mr. Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78214	The amendment is not accepted. Under Programme 2810 Prevention of corruption and organised crime activities A678000 Continuing corruption and organised crime, funds are planned in the State Budget proposal and ensure the implementation of all of the office's tasks. In the event of unforeseen circumstances and the need for funds will be provided by the competent Ministry of Justice and Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78215	And we will vote on this amendment. Also respected representative Željko Sačić, 365.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78216	The amendment is not accepted. Under Programme 2812, the operation of State Attorneys Chapter 1094, the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia, the funds planned in the proposal of the State Budget, shall ensure the implementation of all the tasks assigned to the Office. In the event of unforeseen circumstances and the need for funds will be provided by the competent Ministry of Justice and Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78217	And we will vote on this amendment. 366, is that Mr. Secretary, that distinguished representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78218	The amendment is not accepted. The funds for the development of further digitisation of the information system for the management and monitoring of state-level law cases, as well as criminal cases of EU embezzlement, are secured in the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Administration. In November 2021, the Ministry of Justice and Administration concluded a contract on further upgrading of the CTS information system to enable further digitisation and improvement of the information system for the management and operation of state-level law cases, as well as criminal cases of EU embezzlement from the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office or USKOK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78219	Thank you, and we will vote on this amendment. There is no Mirala. Okay, thank you very much. You don't have any more amendments. We are now moving on to the amendments to the Ombudsman for children, Mr. Secretary of State Zrinasic will respond. The first is 367, the distinguished representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78220	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, the amendment is not accepted. In view of the number of employees, the activities the office plans to carry out in 2022 in accordance with the Law on the Ombudsman for children and the strategic plan of the Ombudsman for children for the period 20-22, we believe that the planned financial resources will also be sufficient for the operation of the office and the implementation of the work programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78221	There is no Mrs. Selak Rasdic, so we will vote on this amendment. The lawyer for gender equality 122, the first one, is to see if she is the first and only one, is Vice President Sabina Vosovac. 368 yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78222	The amendment is not accepted. Thus, the reduction of the 2021 revenue plan, i.e. to 20 years and earlier in the position of 122 of the Advocate General for Gender Equality, is related to the completion of the funding of projects with EU funds. Therefore, all the projects obtained have been implemented, no new funding has been agreed, at the same time the source of financing of general income and the receipts have been increased by this proposal of the State budget from 3.8 to 3.9 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78223	And this amendment will be voted on. Amendments relating to the State Statistics Institute, 369 distinguished representatives of Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78224	The amendment is not accepted. The amount of planned funds in the division of the State Statistics Office is at the level that enables the establishment of regular business of the State Institute with further improvement of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78225	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78226	Good afternoon, so it's hardly a level to be needed. So I will warn that statistics are one of the most important tools of economic development, that the State Statistics Institute, which should be really useful to us in 2020, was spent 130 million kunas, this year something more due to the census but for 2022, only 121 million kunas are planned, in 2024, even less 117 million kunas. It seems we no longer have the need for the most important tool, but now I'm going to tell you why, we're not really interested in economic development, so we don't need statistics. Then, in the Recovery and Resistance Strategy, statistics will be strongly mentioned, so here are statistics that are useful to the HDZ that manipulates it, but it cannot even manipulate it if it does not have that tool. The state statistical office is chronically missing people, the frames are leaving, the wages are miserable. So all those who accuse the public sector of high wages just go to work at the State Statistics Office. Otherwise, it would be very useful for us to have the State Statistics Institute calculate the cost of living to see why our minimum wage is in full stretch with minimum salary in Europe and the world. We'd be good at bringing in five tax reforms to run some analysis, so what they've done is these reforms that have recently passed away. Ivo Bicanic called "Reform for the bourgeoisia", we have this statistical analysis that we may have been able to obtain, so maybe do some data-based reforms, and not so much as the impression that our taxes are high and that maybe the richest of more than 30,000 kn pay needs to be reduced even more taxed to make them a little better, because only if we cut taxes to those who have enormously high salaries will we be better off. It might be a good idea if we had some statistical data on how much that improved our economic growth, but none of it did. We're cutting funds here and asking to vote on this, pardon the amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78227	Thank you very much. Now we move to 225 division 225 of the State Inspectorate. Center and Voice Representatives Club, 370.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78228	The amendment is not accepted. In its proposal for a budget for 2022 and projections 2023 and 2024, the State Inspectorate planned funds based on realistic needs to ensure the smooth work of the inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78229	Mrs. Dark Taritash, I presume, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78230	Thank you very much. Now, my secretary of state, of course the State Inspectorate doesn't want his budget to increase by a single kuna, because if his budget might go up to some reasonable one, then maybe he'd have to do something. This is how every time there's gonna be an explanation that he doesn't have enough resources to do some serious work. When you see how many items are related to inspectors, those who stayed in their home ministries, where their ministers were opposed to going to the State Inspectorate, so when you add those items that are intended for inspection there and what's meant for the State Inspectorate, you're a little surprised because the items are increasing there, they increase somewhere and double, because the inspection needs to be done. We, when we have certain bill proposals here and then these Law proposals state what is necessary to do, what all the State Inspectorate needs to do, what should be done in its supervision, what should be done in general in its education in its information, then we would actually have some kind of system that works. So this is how the State Inspectorate sleeps with such a dream, he's covered his ears, and he doesn't have a chance to increase a few items, because imagine, then someone would say a little check you have a surveillance item so why don't you go ahead and check out a little bit of information so why didn't you inform everything you could. Either you've got an item to take down buildings or supervision of illegal construction, so why aren't you in the field, why aren't you doing it? This way we don't increase anything related to the State Inspectorate, the orderly inspectorate doesn't do its job, and I deliberately downloaded this item when I made a proposal from each other. In fact, the Ministry of Economy has one item that says: for jobs of 2 million and 700 thousand kuna for services and costs of consulting about Ina and Mol. I assume it was counseling in the process of former Prime Minister Sanader. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this, too, about this item you didn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78231	You don't have any more amendments. Now there are amendments to the proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Waters and State Secretary Mr. Mario Šijaga. Here you go. The first is the amendment to the Bridge's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The EU's preparation of the Blato agglumeration project is under way to drain and clean up waste water, which will be co-financed by EU funds and Croatia's waters have been monitoring the preparation of the project with 85% of the funding and 4.25m euros, respectively. The coastal waters of the settlement are under the obligation of the Local Self-Government Unit, and will also be included in the co-financing proposal from other funds through the agglumeration debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78233	Thank you, too. I don't see anyone from the Bridge, so we'll vote. The second is the amendment of MP Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78234	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian waters through annual programmes together with water service suppliers in Ličko-Senjska County are systematically investing in water supply projects, and a little less than 61 million kuna has been invested in the last five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78235	And we will vote on that amendment. The third is also the amendment of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78236	The amendment is not accepted. In line with the priorities and possibilities, the resolution of the water supply of the settlements Roža and Vostane will be considered since they are the same mountain settlements and are far from the existing water supply systems. Part of the Ruda settlement, which is not connected to the public water supply system, is located above the existing water storage system and will be solved in accordance with the possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78237	And we will vote on this amendment. The fourth is also the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78238	The amendment is not accepted. The development of project documentation of water supply facilities of the Ogorsko-Zelovo plateau area is under way after the construction of the project documentation, the establishment of building permits will be able to move towards the construction of these facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78239	4th is also a respected representative of Mira Bulja. 5. Pardon me, too, Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78240	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as the previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78241	And we will vote on this as well as on the 4th and all others before Mr. Bull who is not present. The 6th Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78242	The amendment is not accepted. The realisation of the Prgomet – Seget water supply subsystem is planned on stage. The construction of the primary water supply network of Zagorje part of the municipality of Seget is under way, while the construction of the secondary water supply network of the Zagorje part of Seget municipality is at the stage of the construction permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78243	We will also vote on this amendment. The 7th Amendment is also Mr. Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78244	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian waters are continuously investing in development, improving the public water supply system in the Sibenik-Knin County area. The work was completed on the recovery of the pressure pipeline Miljačka for the water supply of the settlement Radučić in the municipality of Ervenik. The construction of water supply in Biočić area has been completed, and the development of a concept water supply system solution is under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78245	We will vote on this amendment. The 8th is also a representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78246	The amendment is not accepted. The construction of project documentation of water supply facilities of the Ogorsko-Zelovo plateau area is under way. An idea solution of the water supply system was developed for the construction of the project documentation, the outcome of the permits will be able to move towards the construction of these facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78247	We will vote on this amendment. The 9th is also an amendment to Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78248	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian waters also invest in the continuing territory of Zadar County through the construction and reconstruction of water supply systems. Works on the construction of the water supply system of the village of Vukšić and Prović and the construction of the Kožlovac water station were completed for the settlement of Islam Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78249	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 10 is a representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78250	The amendment is not accepted. So far, an IPA programme has developed an idea project of a public irrigation system of the Imot field and an environmental and nature impact study. But it was withdrawn from the acceptance procedure due to a lack of water in the accumulation of Rice. Rehabilitation of Riče is a prerequisite for the implementation of this project, therefore it has been approached to create a project of the Riče dam's recovery. The right flank of the battery is scheduled to be recovered directly upstream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78251	To vote on this amendment as well. It's 11 now, isn't it? The 11th amendment is also Mr. Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78252	The amendment is not accepted. Sibenik-Knin County and Croatian Waters have developed idea projects with several variants of the technical solution for water capture at the source of the Cicola River. Conducted procedure to assess the impact of the procedure... network. However, he found that such procedures would significantly endanger protected fish species. However, on the basis of a hydrogeological study on the possibility of affecting groundwater for irrigation of agricultural areas in Sibenik-Knin County and conducted geotechnical research in the Croatian Water Management Plan for the 21st year, it is envisaged to co-finance water research works at three locations in the Petrov field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78253	We'll vote on the amendment. 12. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78254	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the National project of irrigation and management of agricultural land in the plans for irrigation of Split-Dalmatia, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, it is not envisaged to irrigate Vrgorsko polje as the area in question is also the area of sanitary protection of drinking water sources at the source of Klokun and the Blue Eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78255	We will vote on this amendment. The 13th Representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78256	The amendment is not accepted. Split-Dalmatia County and Croatian Waters have developed a conceptual solution to the irrigation of the Sinjsko Polje, and ideas for the location of Trnčav were developed for watering projects and an idea project for draining and environmental impact studies. Complementary environmental impact study is under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78257	The 14th Amendment of the Honorable Representative, the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78258	The amendment is not accepted. An idea project of the public irrigation system The Konavol field was built 10 years ago. However, there was no interest in end-users. However, the Dubrovnik-Neretva County initiative of 20 January 2021 included the co-financing of the sub-investment study of the Konavolsko polje arrangement in order to determine the current interest of end-users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78259	He's not present, so we'll vote on this amendment. Amendment number 15 of MPs Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78260	The amendment is not accepted. In order to protect from the floods from the northern slopes of Požega, it is planned to produce 7 retentions and one accumulation on the river Komusanac above Požega. Public tender selected designers and agreed to design ideas for the purpose of obtaining local permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78261	She is not present, so we will vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much. It is now a review of the amendments relating to the Croatian Roads Financial Plan. We have the Secretary of State, Mr. Allen Gospić. Here you go. 1. It's an amendment to the Bridge's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78262	So the amendment is not accepted. Croatia's roads have come up with a new solution on environmental acceptability and continued activity at the outset of local and construction permits for the Orebic bypass.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78263	Thank you very much. I had to take a picture of this auditorium composed of two MPs. We'll vote on the amendment. 1. The amendment is a representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78264	The amendment is not accepted. The innovation of the track idea solution and the development of an environmental impact study has been agreed. The optimal variant of the route has been established, however, as harmonisation of space-plan documentation with the approved route variant cannot be completed by the environmental impact assessment procedure. Further production of the project documentation will continue after a solution on the acceptability of the procedure to the environment. The planned funds are sufficient for the expected dynamics of project documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78265	Mr. Hajdash Doncic, I don't want to establish a conversation right now, but I have to do it because it is, the procedure is like that, and we have a lot of people watching us. ... No, no, no, no, no. The Rules of Procedure don't predict. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] The 3rd is the amendment of the honourable representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78266	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads have an agreed level of idea solution and new environmental impact studies with solutions on environmental impact assessment. After the County Plan of Split-Dalmatia County of the Croatian Roads was adopted, further activities continued. In addition, Croatian roads run the purchase of ideas and main projects for the combined road D-60, and D-1 at the location of Turnjaci-Kukuzovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78267	We'll vote, we'll vote on this amendment. Representative Miro Bulj also has a fourth amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78268	The amendment is not accepted. The reconstruction on the state road D-33 city of Drniš improved the connection with highway A-1, and in addition Croatian roads produce project documentation at the level of the main project of the Drniš bypass. The planned funds are sufficient for the expected dynamics of project documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78269	Thank you. 5, also Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78270	The amendment is not accepted. Project documentation for the reconstruction of the state road DC-62 and DC-76, Zagvozd-Imotski, is under way. There are problems in solving property relations that are a prerequisite for entering a building permit on the floor of a stock through the centre of Zagvozda. After the construction permit is completed, the project will be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78271	We'll vote. Six, Reverend Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78272	The amendment is not accepted. Currently, Croatian roads are preparing project documentation for the northern border of Knina, which will move freight traffic from the D-1 state road outside the city centre of Knin. At present, an environmental impact study is under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78273	He's gone. We'll vote. 7. Honorable representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78274	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads started with a project to prepare for the project, but in the meantime, the county plan envisioned a road categorized as a county road, and moved to ZUC's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78275	We'll vote. 8, Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78276	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads started with a project to prepare for the project, but in the meantime, the county plan envisioned a road categorized as a county road, and moved to ZUC's jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78277	We'll vote. 9, Bridge Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78278	The amendment is not accepted. The construction of highways is not in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78279	We'll vote. 10th, Advocacy Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78280	The amendment is not accepted. The results of the evaluation of the corridor have established that there is no justification for the construction of a fast two-wheel road. As a rational solution, the reconstruction of existing state roads D-26 and D-45 is shown with the construction of a tour of the cities of Kutina and Gareshnica. According to the above, activities were launched to produce study documentation for the Kutina bypass and included bypasses in spatial planning documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78281	We'll vote. 11, Bridge Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78282	The amendment is not accepted. Construction of the first 5km of Farkašić-Bjelovar stock is under way, and all main projects have been completed and administrative procedures have been launched for the construction of the building permit on the second part of the stock to Bjelovar. Project documentation is under way for 57.1 km of fast road Belovar-Virovitica-Terezino Polje with local and construction permits. This fast road is designed as a two-way road, but in the first phase, with the estimated cost of construction and potential sources of financing, only one column bar will be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78283	We'll vote. 12th, Advocacy Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78284	The amendment is not accepted. The Croatian roads built and placed the Virovitica-Slatina stock on the market, and agreed on an idea project for the establishment of a local permit and the main projects for the construction permit for Suhopolje-Slatina. The planned financial resources are sufficient for the expected dynamics of the production of that project documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78285	13, Representative Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78286	The amendment is not accepted. The fast road D-10 shares from Koprivnica to Klostr Vojakovaki is in the design phase for which Croatian roads have agreed to develop an environmental impact study with the outcome of the solution, as well as the development of idea projects for the establishment of a local permit. An environmental impact study has been carried out, and the evaluation process will be launched and expected by 2022. the adoption of a solution on the acceptability of environmental interventions, after which the design will be continued through the design of an idea project and the establishment of a local permit. Following the completion of the project, a precondition will be created for the next design phase, which is the development of major projects. After the development of the main projects, a prerequisite will be created for the start of the resolution of the property relations, or for the establishment of the building permit, and then for the start of the construction of that stock. The planned funds are sufficient for the project's expected dynamics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78287	We'll vote. 14, MP Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78288	The amendment is not accepted. The fast road D-10 from Koprivnica to Klostr Vojakovaki is in the design phase for which Croatian roads have agreed to develop an environmental impact study with the outcome of a solution, and the development of an idea project for the establishment of a local permit. An environmental impact study has been carried out, and the evaluation process will be launched and expected in 2022. the adoption of a solution on the acceptability of environmental interventions, after which the design will continue to be designed by designing idea projects and the establishment of a local permit after completion of the project will create preconditions for the next design phase which is the construction of the main project. After the development of the main projects, conditions will be created for the start of the settlement of property-legislative relations, i.e. the exit of the building permit and only then for the start of the execution of that stock. The planned funds are sufficient for the project's expected dynamics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78289	He's not present, so we'll vote. And now the 15th representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. A little bit of human warmth at last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78290	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads received a location permit for Zlatar Bistrica – Kasina, and agreed on the main project from Zlatar Bistrica to Marija Bistrica, which is in the final phase, and will start administrative procedure after obtaining all necessary documents and resolved property-legal relations. Croatian roads are in the process of public procurement for the nivelation of the idea solution, the development of an Environmental Impact Study, the production of an idea project and the location permit for the joint road Zlatar Bistrica – Zabok do Breznički Huma. In addition, Croatian roads have an agreed level of idea solution and an environmental impact study for Popovac – Kasina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78291	Yes, thank you. Here's what I'm not gonna say. I could just say it could've been a lot faster. You're a bit of a stunt and you're a little late, but good. The minister is no longer from Krapina-Zagorje County, so there are probably priorities elsewhere. But I'm asking for a vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78292	Thank you very much. Most representative's club, 16th.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78293	The amendment is not accepted. It is agreed to create an idea solution with the environmental protection elaborat, as well as idea projects and the establishment of a local permit for the reconstruction of the intersection of the road D8 and D9 in the town of Opuzen. The planned financial resources are sufficient for the expected dynamics of the production of that project documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78294	We'll vote on the amendment. Amendment 17 also serves as a representative of the Most Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78295	The amendment is not accepted. This project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. In the next period, the justification of the project will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78296	Thank you. We'll vote. 18. Also the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78297	The amendment is not accepted. The realization of the started projects of the Zagorje road, which was categorized as D433, was continued, and during the construction permit that was previously completed before that road was re-tegrated into the state road, the city of Split started through its services. After the same outcome, Croatia's roads will continue with further activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78298	The 19th representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78299	The amendment is not accepted. The construction of a traffic construction and electricity project is under way to traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic and traffic traffic crossings on the D31 State Road for the business zone in the town of Velika Gorica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78300	18th, I said we'd vote. Of course we'll vote. There's no one here. Nineteen will vote, too. Twenty reps to Nikola Grumoja again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78301	The amendment is not accepted. The procurement process is under way to arrange for the modernisation and integration of light equipment into the AZP system on the state roads D30 and D31. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78302	Thank you. We'll vote. The 21st Honorable Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78303	The amendment is not accepted. In the next period, the proposed projects will be considered to access the realisation in accordance with the financial means available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78304	Thank you. We'll vote. 22 Mr. Nikola Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78305	The 22nd Amendment is not accepted. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78306	Thank you. The 23rd Honorable representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78307	The amendment is also not accepted. The construction of the main project is under way with the construction permit for the realisation of the import of the state road code D30 at the intersection with the national road code D31 in Velika Gorica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78308	Thank you. We'll vote. And that was 23 or 24? The 24th is now a representative of Nikola Grumoja, again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78309	Amendment number 24 is not accepted. The proposed procedure covers the roads of different managers and is mainly not in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78310	Now we have a set of MPs for Mira Bulj. 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78311	The amendment is also not accepted. For D219 Privija – Han, project documentation has been developed and the implementation of works is planned in the next investment cycle according to budget options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78312	I'll be back one second on 24. We'll vote, of course, and we'll vote for 25. 26. Miro Bulj, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78313	The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 26 is not accepted. That procedure will be considered in the next planning period in accordance with the financial means available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78314	We'll vote. 27. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78315	The amendment is also not accepted. Croatian roads invest considerable resources in increasing traffic signalling flow on that stock. In this area of the Croatian road they built and left the Rokići node on the market, and it was agreed to produce an idea project and a location permit, as well as major projects and building permits for Njivica knot. The Njivice node shall be subject to a local authorisation and shall continue to produce the remaining documentation necessary to start the construction of that node. After the construction of that node, the justification and potential priorities of further improvement of the road network in that area will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78316	We'll vote. 28th Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78317	The amendment is also not accepted. A feasibility study, links to Vučevica knot – state road D8, ferry port Split is built. Croatian roads continue with further activities on the project to launch an environmental impact study with the outcome of a solution on environmental acceptability. The planned funding is sufficient for the expected dynamics of the production of that project documentation covering the new bridge through the Gulf of Kastelan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78318	We'll vote. 29. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78319	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the complexity of the implementation of this project, all possibilities need to be considered and the project documentation of the optimal solution will be approached accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78320	We'll vote. 30 MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78321	The amendment is not accepted. In this area of the Croatian road there was a location permit on Dicmo – Sinj location Kukuzovac. A request for a building permit has been submitted. After that, the Croatian road will continue its activities on the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78322	We'll vote. 31 MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78323	The amendment is not accepted. Project documentation is under way with the implementation of the administrative procedure for the reconstruction of Caporica – Velići shares. Public insight into environmental impact is under way. At the outset of the building permit and in accordance with the financial means available, the work of the reconstruction of the transport share will be planned in the next planning period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78324	We'll vote. 32 MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78325	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads have agreed to produce complete project documentation with the establishment of a local and construction permit for the reconstruction of the state road D33 shares Knin – Drniš length 20 km. In the process of obtaining a local permit and special conditions for transport, the procedure in question in the area of the City of Drniš refused to issue special conditions and finally launched an administrative dispute which was subsequently resolved in the interest of the Croatian roads. According to the above, the overall process of drafting the project documentation and the outcome of the permits has been suspended for a longer period, and following the end of the administrative dispute, the issue of the local authorisation and the continuation of the new types of main projects is expected and the construction permit for the reconstruction in question is expected during the 22nd year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78326	We'll vote. 33 MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78327	The amendment is not accepted. The location permit on the Dicmo – Sinj location Kukuzovac is located. A request for a building permit has been submitted. After that, Croatia's roads will continue with further activities on the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78328	34 MP Miro Bulj. And we'll vote on the one before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78329	The amendment is not accepted. Subject road is not in our jurisdiction. It's about an unclassified road in the jurisdiction of the City of Sinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78330	And now representative Marin Miletic 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78331	The amendment is not accepted. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78332	We'll vote. Dear Representative Marin Miletic also has the next amendment 36.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78333	The amendment is also not accepted. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78334	We'll vote. 37 distinguished representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78335	The amendment is not accepted. This stock is the most critical through the center of Zagvozda. There are problems with the resolution of property relations that are a prerequisite for obtaining a building permit. At the outset of the building permit, it will be accessible to the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78336	We'll vote. 38 MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78337	The amendment is not accepted. In order to achieve this rotor, it is necessary to destroy private-owned facilities. Negotiation with owners is under way and will be built after solving property problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78338	We'll vote. 39 MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78339	The amendment is not accepted. This project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. In the next period, the justification of the project will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78340	We'll vote. 40 MP Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78341	The amendment is not accepted. In cooperation with the local community, Croatian roads will draw up all necessary documentation for the construction of legposts, taking into account the burden of traffic safety especially in the summer months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78342	41, right? Also respected representative Ante Kujudzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78343	The amendment is not accepted. This project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. In the next period, the justification of the project will be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78344	We'll vote. 42 Honored representative Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78345	The amendment is not accepted. It is planned to include in the construction and maintenance plan of the Croatian Roads for 2022 a project documentation service with the implementation of the administrative procedure for the reconstruction of the bridge on the state road D38 via Novalja stream at the entrance to Novo Selo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78346	We'll vote. Respected, 43 respected MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78347	The amendment is not accepted. The funds requested for construction cannot be planned until the options of the route are chosen, so-called. The Blue Highway, does not comply with space-plan documentation, does environmental impact studies, conducts an environmental impact assessment process, and makes other project documentation and permits necessary to start the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78348	We'll vote. Dear Representative Marin Miletic 44.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78349	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2022 and projections for the 23rd and 24th years provides for funding for the activities of A300008 co-financing of unclassified roads of 10 million kuna refers to the means of co-financing of winter service on unclassified roads. Subject co-financing will cover units of local self-government with the status of mountain-mountan area under the Law on mountain-mountan areas and decisions on the coverage and classification of units of local self-government that acquire the status of mountain-mountan areas and units of local self-government in the area of Lika-Senj County, Gorski Kotar is covered by the second and third climate zone of road maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78350	Thank you. We'll vote. 45. It's the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78351	The amendment is not accepted. The company of the Croatian road section Orovac – Kruševo is maintained through a regular maintenance programme, and the given section is safe for traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78352	Thank you. We'll vote. Dear Representative Ante Kujundzic, 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78353	The amendment is not accepted. In the end, it's a project documentation for the restoration of the Omis Bridge. After completing the same plan, recovery works will be planned, dynamics will be brought into line with the dynamics of the release of a busy new bypass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78354	Now here, I'll just say, but I'll name them all from 47th to 60th is Mr. Miro Bulj's representative. First 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78355	The amendment is not accepted. Project documentation was made, a building permit was issued. For the reconstruction of Vukovar – Opatovac, the work will be divided into 4 stages. The Ilocka bypass is scheduled for the extraordinary maintenance of a 6km stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78356	Thank you. We'll vote. 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78357	The amendment is not accepted. The activities are under way on several subdivisions of the state road D1 between Vrlika and Sinj. The reconstruction works of the state road D1 through the Vrlika length of 07 km have been completed. Works have been completed to resuscitate unstable attempts on the Vrlika-Satriæ stock in length of 7 km, at 11 positions. The purchase plan provides for the negotiation of works and the extraordinary maintenance of the asphalt stake from Maljkovo - Peruča length 6.3 km. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78358	We'll vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78359	49. The amendment is not accepted. That stock is a county road, therefore it is not in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78360	We'll vote. Fifty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78361	The amendment is not accepted. Construction of legposts on D56 through Donji Muč has been completed. The continuation of the construction of foot-and-mouth disease along the state road in the Municipality of Muč will be classified in the next planned period according to the financial means available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78362	We'll vote. 51.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78363	The amendment is not accepted. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78364	Thank you. We'll vote. 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78365	The amendment is not accepted because of the budget limited, implemented, these projects will be discussed in the next planning period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78366	We'll vote. 53.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78367	The amendment is not accepted. That stock is not part of the network of national roads, therefore it is not in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78368	We'll vote. 54.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78369	The amendment is not accepted. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78370	We'll vote. 55.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78371	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads have over the past period restored the asphalt stake on the state road D1. There is a continuous, one-sided hiking trail throughout the length. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78372	We'll vote. 56.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78373	The amendment is not accepted. During the past period, Croatian roads have agreed to design a project of reconstruction of state road D219 about 800 metres in Sinj. The location permit has been issued; construction permit is being issued. After that, they will move towards the realization of the necessary works. The project envisions the construction of mutual hiking trails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78374	Thank you. We'll vote. 57.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78375	The 57th Amendment is not accepted. That procedure will be considered in the next planning period in accordance with the financial means available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78376	We'll vote. 58.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78377	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads will conduct a specialist inspection of the bridge on the state road D219 in Obrovac Sinjski with the construction of the project task of reconstruction of the bridge in collaboration with the Conservatory Institute, as the bridge is listed under conservative protection. On the bridge itself, regular maintenance measures have been carried out in accordance with the rules of the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78378	Thank you. We'll vote. 59.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78379	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads continuously in the Sinj area work to ensure the safety of pedestrian traffic. The implementation of these projects will depend on the dynamics of the resolution of administrative procedures and the outcome of building permits, and accordingly they will be included in the procurement plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78380	And the last amendment of Mr. Representative Mira Bulja to this set number 60.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78381	The amendment is not accepted. Croatian roads have agreed and a nivelled idea solution and a new Environmental Impact Study for the Dicma bypass is under way after the Split-Dalmatia County's spatial plan is adopted will continue further during the project. The planned funds are sufficient for the expected dynamics of project documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78382	We'll vote on this amendment and 59th if I didn't say, I'm not sure we'll vote. And now we are going to review the amendments to the proposal for a financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. And we begin with Agent Mir Bulja and Secretary of State Mario Shiljeg, please. One, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78383	The amendment is not accepted. In this moment, the Fund is not able to allocate additional funds for the recovery of a concrete salt-steam mine since the recovery of the same is not yet possible because the implementation framework for the implementation of the pilot of the projects of the abandoned exploitation fields is being prepared and on behalf of which the selected recovery model will be applied to future applications for EU co-financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78384	Thank you. We'll vote. Two, Agent Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78385	The amendment is not accepted. The increase in budget expenditure and expenditure for the recovery of landfill waste so-called waste. The Black Hill near Biljani Donji village, where there is more than 140,000 costs, is not possible because it is not a waste dump but a mineral raw material that has been deposited on private land. The Fund has no jurisdiction to act in a specific case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78386	We'll vote. Now review of the amendments to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance Financial Plan, State Secrets Tomislav, Mr Tomislav Dulibic. We only have one, only one amendment, representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78387	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. The funds for A60013 activities are planned on the basis of data on the funds spent from previous years and on the basis of analyses and projections of the necessary means to finance the traineeship for healthcare professionals and the work under the supervision of medical professionals without specialisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78388	Thank you very much, Mr. Dulibic. Mrs. Andreja Maric, I'm sorry this is going to comment on your, uh, vision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78389	Dear Secretary of State, I am not satisfied with your explanation and I ask that the amendment be voted upon, your analysis is obviously not good and you have the wrong information. I've been very involved in this issue for the past year and I know everything in detail. So for 2020 there were 170 places, 2021. 2,000 seats. What you didn't take into account is the fact that these designated places are with those quotas that they couldn't use. So, 675 seats for nurses, and there's them at the employment office for 50 and something. Therefore, quotas are not valid, there is no good distribution and plan for next year. I'll remind you that for 2020, there were 26.4 million kunas for 2021. 3.5 million kuna, and now scheduled for 2022 even less, 3 million 220 thousand kuna. So you don't even care that over 2,000 people are still waiting for their traineeship, some and a half years. There is no valid rule that an internship can be obtained according to certain criteria, length of study, those who have previously completed, average assessments etc. So there's still a lot of work ahead of you, and you haven't offered a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78390	Mr. Dulibic, I think you're free now, thank you. And now it is a review of the amendments to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Railways Infrastructure. Mr. Ma'am, Secretary of State. Amendment, wait, Amendment 1 to the First Amendment of Representative Sinish Hajdar Doncic, Hajdas Doncic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78391	Thank you very much, Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. Modernisation and electrification of the railway railway R106 Zabok – Krapina – Romec is covered by a rail connection project within the functional region of central Croatia, the Lepoglav Connector for which the procurement process is under way for the production of technical documentation, the establishment of the necessary permits. The project is planned in the investment activities programme HZ Infrastructure K110009. The new track and construction of new railways and trackways is expressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78392	Honorable representative of Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78393	I'm not happy with your answer. So it's not up to you. So, all these projects we mentioned in the infrastructure was the mention of Mr. Big Leader Andrej Plenkovic at a government meeting in Krapina a year, a year and a half ago, so where he promised a quick end and fast roads. Also electrification of the section of the track. I think that you have slowly succumbed to the pressure of one of your coalition partners and that something that should have been designed so for the next 10 to 15 years gradually, you have therefore included all your energy in this instead of after the completion of this EU railway electricity project Zagreb i.e. Zaprešić – Zabok continued the electrification of the railway existing towards Krapina – Hromac – Đurmanac and Slovenia and the electrification of the railway and I will tell the rehabilitation of the railway Zabok – Bedekovčina – Zlatar Bistrica – Konjščina – Varazdin – Čakovec, that would be much better than this. So, I'm not satisfied with your explanation. I'll ask for a vote. I'm entitled to take a break on behalf of the SDP Club. We didn't ask for it today. I should be...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78394	You have, you have the right to a recess, if it concerns the subject matter of the amendment. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78395	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm looking very, very nice, looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club and colleagues of Anka Mrak Taritash to consult on whether we're satisfied with this way of presenting the amendments, whether they've been analysed well enough and who they've actually analyzed themselves to. Thank you. To apologize, I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78396	And this, the break has been approved in the way we've approved lately, we still have one, there's still an amendment and you're satisfied and you Mrs. Dark Taritash, you're pleased. We're all happy. Representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic has another amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78397	The amendment is not accepted. The reconstruction of the railway section to, for regional transport, is planned under enhanced maintenance, which is covered by the funds planned for positions A110000 administrations and the management of 32 material expenditures. At the same time for the renovation and modernisation of the regional railway R101 state border Buzet – Pula is planned to produce a study documentation that is under way during the public procurement process and is planned in the programme investment activities of HZ Infrastructure K110008 programme of active activities in the function of infrastructure and network transport as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-06-0.u78398	Thank you very much. We have no more amendments, no, no, no MP Martina Vlasic Iljkic, and then we will vote on this amendment. No more amendments at all. This is one of the better under quotes of experiences I've had in the last 30 years almost being a representative, and you have four plus me, five. ... Four. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, I'm talking about MPs now. Thank you so much for staying. Thank you, thank you, thank you. I mean, we should establish a medal like Congress and Parliament Medals, but for this sort of thing. We will continue tomorrow morning at 9:30 with the Final Proposal for a Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration. Thank you very much, and I'll see you at the cogeneration tomorrow. SESSION Interrupted at 21.12 p.m.
