ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27049	Now we're going to the vote. The first point is the motion for a decision, has several hands. The first one seemed to me to be a colleague of Troscott, so a colleague of Pulak and a colleague of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27050	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we are looking for a break because of the consultation on the voting plan today, which we all got on our hands. You have excluded the Croatian Chamber of Commerce from the vote. [[Adversity President: A fellow Troscott about this cannot be a pause and consultation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27051	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Hold on, hold on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27052	And we think you should.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27053	My colleague Troscott, stop when I tell you. You can't ask for a break about that. You can say what you have on the agenda, but not as a break and not for two minutes. Can I help you? What's the objection?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27054	That's the agenda we said. I see you have thrown Croatian economics out of the agenda And we do, and we do. [[/The incursion president: No, no. Sit down first.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27055	First, sit down and let me explain. Can you hear what I'm saying? I'll give you a warning. ... You can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please sit down and let me tell you. ... Please sit down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you to leave this hall because there are two representatives of the Bridge sitting here. So as far as the agenda and voting on the agenda is concerned, the president of the Croatian Parliament is in charge. I will put that item on the agenda and vote, or not on the agenda, but on the vote when the conditions are met, and today the representatives of the ruling majority asked me not to vote on that item because of the additional consultations and I will meet them there. Therefore, the conditions have not been met, and when the conditions are met, that item will be on the vote as well as others. So the vote is in the power of the President of the Croatian Parliament and he puts the points in the way he believes it should. ... You can't say that because it's not part of the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Maybe when you're looking for a break about something else, then find a way to talk about it and comment on it. You can't comment now. There is no institute in the Croatian Parliament where you comment on the points that I put on the agenda. It doesn't. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. We can't talk to a colleague of Troscott, we can't talk, it's not in the Rules of Procedure. ... I'm giving you my first warning now. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So you can have a press conference, you can make statements but here we just can't. You have five minutes of free speech, you have 100 ways of showing your dissatisfaction. But I repeat once again, when some point will come to the vote, it is the decision of the President of the Croatian Parliament or of the chairman of another. So we start with a vote, the first is the proposal for a decision to declare the IGP of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We will vote on the proposal for this decision today on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, which was adopted at the 5th extraordinary session on 18 December 2020. I would like to remind you that the amendment as well as the conclusion of the Croatian Sovereigns Club submitted on the proposal for a decision has not been accepted on this occasion. The debate is closed. ... Are you looking for a break? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Wait a second, you're looking for a break on this bill? ... Wait a minute, are you looking at this break point? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Then let's take it in a row. She's the first colleague of Vuciilovic's. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, first is the violation of my colleague Bauk's Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27056	Mr. President, you've hurt an officer. Article 251(1) The Rules of Procedure, which shall set out the conditions for a decision to be taken at the meeting of the Assembly, which shall be the presence of the majority of the MPs. If the ruling majority clubs did not agree, when the agenda point comes, they should leave the session, there will be no majority of MPs and no vote will be held. Such a discretionary decision Which clubs you will please and which you will not vote on, brings you to a rather unfortunate position where we would like to spare you that. [[Incursion president: colleague Bauk.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27057	My friend Bauk, I don't need to be spared at all, nor does that put me in an awkward situation. So this point today won't be on the vote because it's my decision. And she came for suggestions and requests from the ruling majority clubs. So there are no conditions or any reason why something should come to the vote. That'll come when the conditions are met. Here you go, buddy coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27058	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I'll do it one more time. You've hurt your ankle. 251. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. There have been conditions for decision-making and voting, and I will point out one more thing, this item is not on the agenda and has not been discussed because of the will of the ruling majority, but precisely because the MPs have exercised their right and with 30 signatures they have come to debate this. The quorum is here, the MPs elected by the citizens of this country are here, let us vote on mandatory membership in the HGK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27059	Comrade Grbin, when you have a majority, when you will be president, then you can make that decision, I will remind you of your decisions, perhaps if you wish, your colleague Lek. Can we remember that? Hey, buddy coat of arms, will you listen to me? You were a representative when your colleague from the party, the current judge of the constitutional court, Mr. Leko, also when they were asked to vote, when he estimated that the conditions had not been met, he transferred the vote for when he estimated that the conditions had been met. So there is absolutely no breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is my political decision and my political responsibility to do so, but there is no condition that would make me vote today. Comrade Grmoy, you are also a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27060	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Troscott initiated a signing of the opposition. He collected signatures, we put the law under discussion, we are not interested in what the SDP was doing and how he violated the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Do not do this, return the law to the vote, do not protect the HGK where you love your staff and allow this initiative, Mr Troscott, to come to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27061	A fellow Thunderbolt, just a little bit. So you're cheating on the public. I didn't take that proposal out of the vote, he wasn't even in the vote. ... When was he at the vote? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Come on, prove it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27062	We're this week, it's the only law we've discussed this week that you haven't put to the vote. Don't protect your HGK personnel Enough of your hacks over Croatian entrepreneurs, you closed them down... [[The incursion of President: Mr. Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27063	.../Intruder President: A fellow Grmoe, you are being warned first./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27064	...and now you're doing this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27065	You get a second warning and another one, you lose your right to speak. Now let's do this. So there is no business decision on putting something that has been discussed, when the opposition decides to vote. So that's how it's been, that's the situation already. It was when the government's proposals were discussed that week and voiced later when conditions were met. So don't put this kind of pressure on me, especially my colleague Grmoya, don't accuse me of protecting any of the ears because my attitude you'll see and know when it's being discussed and talked about, it has nothing to do with when it's going to be voted on. A colleague called Tomašević before, you asked for the same thing, didn't you seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Then you're welcome, Mr. Grmoy, and I'd like to finish this debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27066	Your Honor, Mr. President, just for a little while. Please grant us a physical break of 10 minutes to consult on further participation in the work of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27067	Okay. It's also not in the Rules of Procedure, but I'll do something else here. I'll take a 10-minute break now, and then everyone's gonna get along just fine, and then we'll see who wants to stay in the hall and who doesn't want to. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27068	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, despite the fact that you have given me a warning, I have to fight for our entrepreneurs and we need to see why this law today is not at the polls, given that the HGK, or membership, is a serious problem for Croatian entrepreneurship and we have to fight for them. We were transparent, you put a public hearing on us at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes, we discussed it until half past 3:00 in the morning. We've brought up all the problems An entrepreneur, if you need another warning because of our entrepreneurs and people who are suffering. [[Intruder president: colleague Troscott, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27069	Yeah, you get now, you sit down, you get a second warning because you've broken the Rules of Procedure again. So, we'll vote on that when the conditions are met. I repeat one more time, and I explained why the conditions were not met, very clearly and unambiguously. Here's a colleague of Zekanovic you're looking for what? You're looking for a flat. You can't ask for a break right now. You can only ask for the law About the agenda point [[/Intruder Zekanovic: I think I can. You started on the agenda.]] IGP? [[/Intruder Zekanovic: May I?]] IGP [[Intruder Zekanovic: That's right.]] What? [[/Intruder Zekanovic: May I?]] I've got before, just a little while, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure before that. We've got a violation of our colleagues' Rules of Procedure, and then you'll be looking for a break. [[Intruder Zekanovic: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27070	Your Honor, Mr. President, I rarely raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but Article 238. I think this procedure offends those MPs who here are an extraordinary effort from 10 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. to discuss this point and the vice president who led the entire session in a nice normal tone. Because we could discuss it today at one, and then vote next week. You know you have it at your disposal. I'm taking the opportunity to protest that way. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27071	Come on, sit down, please. You've been experienced and you've been in Parliament for a long time and you know there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague, Zekanovic, looking for a break on the agenda point we should vote on. It's a declaration of an exclusive economic belt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27072	That's exactly right, President of the Parliament. So, I am looking for a break in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' club on the agenda point and I immediately note that as farce as IGP is concerned, there is nothing to be protected and that Italian carriages will continue to fish in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. I also want to say one very important thing about all MPs right now in the assembly. Croatian sovereigns will vote for this item of the agenda, they will vote for the second item of the agenda, and this is about the Law on Reconstruction. But after that he will leave the session and will not hold the quorum to the ruling majority, so let the President of the Croatian Parliament see who holds him for most of the SDP, is it some other clubs because Croatian sovereigns will not play this play and will leave the session of the Assembly and see if HDZ has 75 hands, 74 hands, 73 hands or how many hands he has. All those who stay in the Croatian Parliament hold the quorum and are prone to Andrej Plenkovic. This is the moment of truth, this is the moment of revelation. So, Croatian sovereigns after the first two agenda points they will vote for leave the session because they do not want to hold the chair to the government of Andrej Plenkovic. And what will colleagues from other clubs do, we'll see about that very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27073	Okay. Now for 10 minutes I will interrupt the session of the Croatian Parliament and we will continue at 12 hours and 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27074	Here's your colleague, Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27075	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, we have consulted within our Club and we would like to say that we have done everything by procedure and by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament until today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27076	A fellow Troscott just a little bit, my colleague Troscott just a little stop Stop. [[Intruder Troscott: We have prepared a topic.]] You're breaking the Rules of Procedure because you're saying I didn't give it to you until I gave you my word. What, what kind of business are you in right now? What do you have now, tell me. .../Intruder Troscott:... Rules of Procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you have 30 seconds. Please tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27077	So we consulted on this subject. We've done everything we need to do. You've put a hearing between 10 and 20 and 30 in the morning. We didn't sleep to present all the interests of our entrepreneurs, our craftsmen and our workers. Since you do not give us the right to vote at all and that this Croatian Parliament has brought the most important Croatian state institution to the circus, we do not want to participate in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-0.u27078	Okay. So this is why I have to answer to my colleague Troscott for public reasons. I didn't put anything first at 10:30, but that day was a very long debate on the National Reform Programme where all clubs over 40 representatives participated so that the point simply came on the agenda then. As far as the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is concerned, we will vote on it when the conditions are met. So it's not true what my colleague Troscott says that I don't want to put that point on the agenda. We'll put it on the agenda when the consultations are over in the ruling majority's ranks. Now, please check the quorum. Is there a quorum and can we approach the vote or not? So I ask the representatives who are here in the hall to sign up so that we can see how many representatives there are and how many representatives there are in the other halls. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Tell me how many there are, yes. So 75, we don't have the right to vote. I'm postponing the vote until voting conditions are met. That won't be today. We'll continue after half an hour today. So 13 o'clock with free speech, and then they'll continue with the agenda points. MEETING IN 12.41 HOURS
