ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71530	The next presentation of the position and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71531	I thank the chairman. Today, here is the topic and press that we recently held a few minutes ago, so violence against women again and this tragic case that took place yesterday in Split. So it hasn't been 10 days since we symbolically marked International Day against Women Violence in Parliament. It hasn't been 10 days since we all got up here in the Parliament and kept silent for a minute in memory of all the victims of violence against women. It hasn't been 10 days since every 15 minutes we've warned about the devastating statistics in Croatia, which is that every 15 minutes, a woman gets violent. We were then warned to interfere with Parliament's work, but here's not ten days after that warning a woman was brutally murdered yesterday by her partner. In those 10 days, 960 times various forms of violence against women were committed. So women kill in Croatia. Not only do they kill them, but you have explicit, very explicit videos on public television almost live broadcasts about it. It is spoken openly of the names of the victims, the perpetrator not thinking of a child or children who are also victims and currently lost their parents. If we were in a civilized country, the heads of editors and those responsible on national television would fall. At the time of Covid, there is an increase in domestic violence, in general violence and peer violence and each other. We're talking about the mental health of a nation, of adults, of children, of adolescents, of numbers, and we're talking about these statistics as if it were happening somewhere else, and yesterday one child or children lost their parents. A woman was murdered by her partner. Today in the Parliament, we are discussing the state budget for next year. The budget should show our concern for women, the concern of society that violence is severely sanctioned, and that by preventing and education we act on young people so that this never happens again. It is not enough just to sign international conventions on violence against women. All these measures should be implemented and the funds for their implementation reserved. As we do not see it in the budget today, so we do not see enough funds for this purpose today and on behalf of the Club, and as an initiative for protection against violence from other clubs to submit here and a number of amendments to the budget that will not only provide safe houses for women to get away from bullies, but money from some meaningless unfinished decades of almost unfinished projects will focus on education, long-term education and boys and girls. A boy to respect girls and women, and girls to grow up to be strong girls and women to be independent, confident, and to be able to recognize and say no to violent men. We will look for funds for self-employment programmes for women, lifelong learning and for all those programs that will provide them with help to be economically independent and emotionally strong. Stop violence against women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71562	And the final statement of the position on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71563	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I want to start by reading part of a public appeal published by the Split Association "Domina", they say, "Stop femicides, stop male violence against women. A woman isn't owned or owned by a man. Every woman has the right to break out of and out of a relationship without being at risk for her health or for her life. Every woman has the right to safety and protection, and every crime should be recognized and properly punished. Croatian Penal Code does not know femicid, the murder of a woman by a man as a birth-related hate crime. It's a murder of intent committed by a man who thinks his wife is his property and has the right to have her body, life decisions and the right to live. The latest case of the murder of a woman in Split where the perpetrator walked in with a weapon into her workplace and killed her shows that women and girls are nowhere safe, and that society is powerless to protect them from male violence. We therefore require who knows by which way to access women's prevention and protection programmes against male violence and domestic violence and that femicid is qualified as a murder of intent associated with a crime of hatred against women as a difficult situation. We believe that we are talking on behalf of many women not only in Split when we say that we are full of mixed feelings of sadness, anger and anger because another woman has died because of this because a man has imagined that she belongs to him and that it is his right to judge her because of proceedings contrary to his expectations." What is important to get out of this appeal and yesterday's terrible event in Split? Femicidal is the most extreme form of gender-related violence and is defined as the murder of a woman because she is a woman. It's a crime of hatred against women's sexes who are motivated only by the sex of the victim. It's a crime motivated by misogyny. Femicidals also begin with the victims of a close and familiar person, as well as those with whom they are not in a close relationship. There is no global or standardised data on femicide, and the EU's Institute for Gender Equality argues that the lack of data hides the right scale of violence. In most countries in criminal law, femicid is not specifically referred to, but placed in murder. Only a few Latin American countries recognise femicide in their legislation. Experts who speak for... apostrophe that femicid should be recognised as a special crime because it differs from other forms of murder, it differs by being motivated by misogyny. I repeat, hate for women only happens to women because they are women. Many experts argue that the inclusion of femicides in the Penal Code would finally be recognized as the misogynistic motivation of these crimes, and thus could finally have more accurate statistics, which would also help to define measures for better women's protection. Following all that I have stated, I would like to announce that the Social Democrats Club today in the parliamentary procedure points to a proposal to amend the Penal Code so that the concept of femicidals is defined by the law as the birth penalty of a hate crime committed by a man to a woman. I hope we get support for such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71585	The following statement of view on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Nadica Dreven Budinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71586	The World AIDS Day is marked on day 1.12 with a message to end inequality, end AIDS, end the pandemic. The marking of that date lasts more than 30 years on the initiative of the World Health Organization. What's AIDS? The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome is a disease of the human immune system. The underlying feature of this disease is severe damage to the immune system, i.e. The inability to defend this system against the adverse effects of various diseases, and the only way to know if anyone is infected is by testing. This day is an opportunity for people around the world to support the sick and unite in the fight against HIV and AIDS. Today is the day to remember all those who died of AIDS disease. So far 32 million people have died of AIDS-related disease, which makes this pandemic one of the most destructive. It is estimated that currently 37 million people live with the HIV virus. Today, major progress has been made in treating HIV and understanding how it is transmitted, which allows us to better protect against spreading the virus. The World Health Organization adopted a title plan in 2016, a plan called Rule 90 90 90 90. Which means that 90% of the infected are diagnosed, 90% are taking antiviral medicines, and 90% of those treated have an undetectable HIV virus count in the body. According to preliminary data from the HIV and AIDS register of HZZZ since 1985 when the first cases of infection were reported until November 2021 in Croatia were reported in total 1886 people. Of these 1679 men and 206 women, 590 of whom were AIDS patients, and 249 people died in the same period of AIDS. A total of AIDS, HIV and AIDS killed 396 people. During the first 10 months of 2021, 58 people who were diagnosed with HIV infection including AIDS were reported. According to the Infectious Diseases Clinic, Dr. Fran Mihaljevic, the Reference Centre for Diagnosis and Treatment of HIV infection and the Ministry of Health in the first 11 months of 2021, 1358 people with HIV infection were included in care. The signs of treatment outcomes and anxiety involvement are good, but still unfavourable as part of the infection of about 50% is detected in the late state of HIV infection or when the infected person is already suffering from AIDS. Of all cases, 98% are men and 11% are women. The most frequently reported route of transfer is sex between men, sex between men and women, and drug injection. Croatia is a country of low HIV prevention since the Croatian National Programme for HIV Prevention and AIDS for 2017 was adopted in 2017. – 2021 with the aim of preventing the spread of infection. The programme includes health services, numerous experts outside of health care and NGOs. Data are collected, monitoring blood, education and raising awareness of the entire population, especially young people and groups exposed to increased risk. An important foundation for all measures to prevent education and information, to adopt responsible sexual behaviour and to avoid drug use. In Croatia there is a 15th location available, available voluntary consultation and testing in public health services and in the community in cooperation with civil society organisations where people can be tested anonymously and free of charge. How dangerous the viruses are we've known 100 years ago. Today, the Covida-19 pandemic should convince us and teach us that we must trust scientific and professional healthcare professionals, epidemiologists and everyone who cares about our health and safety that we must behave responsibly and seriously, because if we think and take care of ourselves we protect others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71629	Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71630	Thank you, Chairman. Respected Croatian public, respected instructors, candidates and auto school owners. A few weeks ago I spoke and scratched the surface of a particularly bad state in the car market and warned of a relationship worse than the motherland by of course towards all those working within this activity, feeding their family and earning bread at all times and instilling in us the skills for managing motor vehicles, here we are, so that we and our family members come alive and healthy to their homes. The whole series of illogicalities began with the opening of the market and by dictating the minimum cost of auto-schools as early as 2018. Which, even then, was no god knows how much, was somewhere more than 5,000 kuna. But these 5,000 kunas were also as much a form of control mechanism. In addition, it was not possible to happen even the wild economically unsustainable inexplicable price dumping that we already have today, and then also qualitative dumping, which is witnessed by a whole series of negative comments on the pages of the grand Croatian Autoclub. Despite the fact that the Committee on National Security is 2018. When adopting an opinion on the elimination of the legal minimum price, he was warned that there would be the situation as we have today, yet no one wanted to hear a warning, but then compared us to Germany, Belgium, France and not to count. They forgot you the same thing that we're still the Balkans on which, and this sector actually confirms it, can do whatever it wants. Those who try to give the state what it belongs to, pay all the high taxes, be fair, be professional and quality they are forced in this country to blackish to live with as high or small a minus on their account. Instructors are forced to drive up to 52 weeks despite the expected 40 hour working week. So does anyone wonder who put this activity in this state? What is the condition of these people who were taken away in one week after 52 hours to their homes and families? How do they live? The question that we're facing is why does someone offer an economically unsustainable, more precisely non-profitable price of a car school? Where do you cover the loss of these prices? What quality is behind such prices? To what amount are the instructors and lecturers reported, and what is the calculation of their work if they work for the registered minimumer? Is all the accounts in that system fiscalized? Is it possible to pay out the declared amount on your hands? Who's in this state of interest? The answer is quite clear, so it tends to shut down those who are only engaged in this activity, and then raised prices and put them back into frames as they should be. And until then, the one who stayed in debt to close the tax and opened a new one to a new member of the family. And while this is happening all yesterday, and even today those whose activity is actually one form of which they barely survive and expect the state to actually give them what the minimum needs to give them, which is one form of security and protection of the HAC is satisfactorily rubbing its hands because it collects the test from the traffic regulations 147 kuna, and the test clock from vehicle management 236 kuna and uses the vehicle that owns the auto-school neatly. What do we need? So we need to define the legal minimum cost in auto-schools and it's actually the only way we're going to keep the quality above all, and then the quality of individuals in the auto-school system as such. If we take into account that today's lowest economic cost-of-hour driving time is around 160 kuna including VAT per hour, and 30, slightly more than 30 kuna hour lectures and we multiply all that by the number of hours 35 for driving a vehicle and 30 for traffic regulations, we'll get to the terrible fact that I started with, and she'll show us how a car school with a price of 3,200 kuna or A category of 999 kuna is definitely not in the category of merciful Samaritan who shares something for nothing. It is certainly a matter of shutting down healthy competition by dumping prices and covering losses from other sources. Such a situation will definitely not make Croatia a country of road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71656	Now, we're gonna interrupt this debate, and then we're gonna go to a club statement. The first reported is the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the respected representative of Stipo Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71657	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, even though it would have been the happiest if this had been read by the SDSS Club, you will now be silent about what it is. I'm wearing this insignation here on my jacket from the Association of Croatian Orthodox Lawyers who spoke to me by e-mail, so I'll read that you know what kind of problem they're facing. Dearly beloved, we have decided to address you as a parliamentary representative, and above all, as our comrade and man who has been through all war horrors, you will be familiar with part of the problem that this group of defenses have. Of course, it is not our goal to share defenders on any basis, but because of the carelessness of the ruling structures for our basic human needs both religious and moral, we were forced to establish such an association. Two brothers of Pravoslavac, participants of the Homeland War, one of them Sasa Rakijas, a member of the special police department, dies on the first day of military redistribution of the Storm. In 2003, at the site of the death at the peaks of Velebit, a memorial panel was revealed to him. I wonder how many times the SDSS delegation has gone to lay down for this man, a member of the Serb national minority, to place flowers or honor him. We are being fenced by any SDSS policy because it is culturally unacceptable to us. These people who are allegedly the Serbian national minority have never mentioned defenders of other religions or nationalities, let alone the Croat Orthodox. God did not give it to them to say that it was a Serb who belonged to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. About 12,600 Orthodox defenders participated in the active defense of our country. Over half of these defenders are volunteers and the rest joined the defense like all other citizens. We were in all units. I Goran Macura as an individual passed from special police to the Croatian Army, from Velebit to Herzegovina. In addition to now the already classic shaggings of the defensive population, Orthodox defenders have no right to even a dignitary burial. Our children will not be baptized in church, buried under a campaign where the Serbian flag hangs. I can't show you from shame and misery what a Serb defender's grave looks like. The man is from Serbia, the Orthodox who died defending our Croatian homeland in 92 years and you know what that mausoleum looks like from what was going on on our directors, of course I mean... In the Sibenik area, five Orthodox defenders were buried without military honor. [[You don't understand.]] The Serbian Orthodox Church does not allow the Croatian soldier to access the cemetery or the coffin to be covered with the Croatian flag. I can't call these people priests or priests, with me just beards doing their own will without any legal or religious basis. In addition to this and every other demeanor, the current government is pushing us into the ranks of the Podovec. Dear gentlemen, we all had a choice in that 91st year, we stopped to defend our home and our neighbours of Catholics, Croats, Hungarians, Italians and the people of our country against these captivated Serbian ideologys. We didn't deserve to still belittled and pushed among our joint executioners today. Have you ever heard of a Serbian Orthodox from Banovina, a HDZ member who has stopped to defend his neighbour Croatian directors, two brothers. The Chetniks killed all three of them and dumped them in a slaughterhouse. Have you heard of a Serb who passed the Serbian camps testifying against the Chetniks? Today, you're threatened by the same, and his children are harassing him. That poor guy's not even in the fridge today. Don't ask where those people are, those defenders. They live alone with their families somewhere in the vacuum. When the Pupovac spoke of his brothers, these brothers were able to persecute with their Croat neighbors, not take arms and destroy Croatia. If I was able to connect Croatia's domestic eviction to the defender of Pravoslavac, then everything is possible in our country with the goal of full independence, and there is no knowledge of the Croatian Orthodox Church. My lords, we fought for life, for our co-existence. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71692	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, respected representative Marko Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71693	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Italian newspaper Il Giornale has come into possession of the working material of the document foreseen for the internal use of the EU Commission, called Union of Equality, or Union of Equality. The Commissioner for Equality Helena Dalli pointed out the following. We must always offer inclusive communication to ensure that all our materials are valued and recognized in all our materials, regardless of sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or religion, disability, age or sexual orientation. It is prohibited to use birth names such as workers or police officers or to use a male pronoun as a pre-defined pronoun. It is forbidden to organise a discussion of only one sex, it is prohibited to use Ms. Ma'am unless the person to whom this applies is explicitly not accepted. It is forbidden to start the conference with the usual expression, ladies and gentlemen, but you must already use the neutral form of a dear colleague. The document focuses on certain areas such as the deadline, LGBTIQ, racial and ethnic themes or cultures, lifestyle and convictions, with a table that shows what can be done, and which cannot be done on the basis of the claim that everything is regulated by creating a new language that does not allow spontaneousness, so it is noted that you do not always mention the same sex first in the address, or that you are different from men and women, and when you select images that will follow your communication, be careful that women and girls are not shown in the home or passive roles, while men are active and adventurous, warn in the document. In addition to language, the EC apparently disturbs Christianity, so it states how it should be avoided to consider anyone to be a Christian. Do not celebrate all Christmas holidays, you must be sensitive to the fact that people have different religious traditions, it is clear instructions to the employees of the Commission. They also warn of the use of Christian names, so that Mary and John are no longer Mary and John but might be more correct to say Malik or Giulio. In the name of inclusiveness, the EC goes so far as to cancel Christmas by calling not to use phrases, for example, the Christmas period can be stressful, but that the use of holidays can be stressful. Such a sick desire for gender equality, change of language, and denial of Christianity is another way of indoctrination and limiting freedom of speech that cannot have positive consequences. This is about a clear attempt to redefine all the foundations on which the EU was built. All this reminds of Orwell's novels where the political elite uses language to manipulate and eradicate personal thought for political purposes. Language and thought are always seen as two different concepts where thought is always taken as the main process, language was only considered a means of communication, a process of expressing our thoughts to other people, and so thought came first. Which means the language developed as that thought was translated into words. But later we realized that the way a person speaks affects the way he thinks and that people think different languages in different ways. In the book of Orwell in 1984, a replacement of the so-called "Orwell" was imposed. The old speech with the new talk. It has made many thought words impossible and is therefore used as a control mechanism. The language that a person speaks affects the way he looks at the world around him. That's a fact. The naiveness of the European Commission is incomprehensible, which is gender-equal with such instructions. It's not the same as being a man or a woman, it's not, nor will it ever be. And that's the starting point, the foundation with which we have to discuss all our differences. The differences that no doubt exist. In some things, men are better and more capable, and in many more things women are better and more capable and it is no secret, but changing language or thoughts in this way is a very slippery ground. We must be aware that this is a continuation of the EU's wrong policies. It is devastating how far the EU has strayed from its original values that Christian founders Adenauer, Schuman and De Gasperi have achieved. What is more, the EU today is ashamed of its Christian and Catholic foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71704	There's a debate coming up. On behalf of the SDP representative club, respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71705	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs. Yesterday, there was a tragic murder in Split in a store where a woman was murdered by an extramarital husband with whom she had a minor child. The woman lost her life, the child lost her mother, the family lost her member. This event, the brutality of this event has been shaken by the Croatian public, and citizens who witnessed the event directly should be provided psychological assistance after the trauma. I hope that the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy has already provided the necessary experts and that psychological assistance is now available to every needy one. What was the public immediately interested in is the case known to the Social Care Centre, or the system? These and similar events can unfortunately happen and sometimes cannot be prevented, but with the recent murder of three children in a family where the Centre had no knowledge that there was a problem, it shows that the Center knew or didn't know about the risky families, the fact is that more brutal crimes are happening to us and that they are increasingly frequent and that they are not recognized previously in the system. Auxiliary activity is in the system of social welfare care for mental health there are for experts to respond to problems in the mental health of citizens. The government is free to say that it does not care enough and psychological assistance and advisory work is not available and does not monitor citizens' needs in view of all risks. There is no support and support for people in parenting, there is no support and psychological assistance at all. It's not enough just to set up a caller and record the video "Empathy Now". We have situations in rural areas that available services when and they are not used enough, because citizens do not have the need, have not learned to share their problems with an expert, because it is still stegmatized in rural areas. We must only change that by education from the earliest age. In other areas where services are and are not available enough and there is a need for a pace of life, man's concern today about his mental health is so marginal in meeting all other needs while man is focused on meeting his existential needs. As for the punishment of the perpetrators of domestic violence, we all know that the punishment that the perpetrators of domestic violence receive is not enough, and that is something that should be pointed out on a continuous basis. The judiciary has mechanisms. The penalties imposed on the perpetrators should be more stringent and focused on deterring the re-increasing of a criminal offence or offence. It is necessary to develop counselling centres for victims, to follow the protocols of all resolutions involved in the problem of domestic violence, and to develop preventive programmes and responsibility for undeclared violence. It is important that the courts in their practice have someone to refer the perpetrator to the psychosocial treatment of the perpetrator or mandatory treatment of addiction and that the insistence on the treatment of the perpetrator and compulsory treatment of addiction be more represented in court practice than the minimum fines burdened by the whole family, and in fact do not lead to a change in the behaviour of the perpetrator. The social care reform we discussed last week does not offer improvements absolutely in the work of an expert in the family, children and youth department. Inter-resorship cooperation between the social care system, the education system and the health system now depends on the will of individuals and good personal connection without actually protocol on actions. Until we can prescribe a way of processing information and networking, we cannot expect early detection of problems in children and respond to family needs. Instead of providing citizens with available assistance in difficult times due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, unemployment, problems of increasing empathy towards each other and an increased number of domestic violence, the Ministry is dealing with centralization of the system, moving citizens away from services that are now bigger than ever and the situation is going to get worse. Due to the gravity of the situation in which we live, we still have an unimaginable absurdity that Minister Aladrovic is preparing for reform of the social care system without compliance with the profession. Ministers are once again warning you to listen to the profession, make a full reform and take care of the mental health of citizens because this no longer concerns only the users of the social care system 600,000 users, but it concerns indeed the entire population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71726	Following is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, HSU and independent representatives on their behalf, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u71727	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As time goes by, as our days flowed here from this pay phone just over a month ago, I defended my Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, and the Parliament accepted it with a large majority of votes with one abstention in the last month, which makes me particularly pleased and that law increased the income censorships of the DZO from 1.612 to 2,000 kuna for a family member and from 2,047 kuna to 2,500 kuna for a person living alone. I told you not to deny that it would be the shortest valid censorship in the history of censorship in the D.O.O. and here it is, it happened. On Monday, so on November 29th, the HZZO Administrative Council decided to coordinate these new censorships in line with the salary growth and the cost of living according to the formula contained in the law. The decision is that as of January 1st 2022, the price for a family member will be 2065.60 kn, so the increase compared to this one is 65 kuna and 60 June, and that the person with less than 2582 kuna, so we have an increase of 82 kuna, that if he lives as a single person, he will get a free insurance policy, or that we, taxpayers through the budget, will pay their additional health insurance policy, as an expression of solidarity with people who for x reasons did not make good income through their lives, whether they are young or old. So that's how we round up one job. Don't think HZZO's resting. I have been controlling all the time and when it will be published, i.e. when the law will be published, and now that this decision will be published, we expect these days to publish this decision in the National Journal, but very interesting that in 10 days last month more than 7,000 applications for free have been accepted and processed, for a policy of free supplemental health insurance, which means that in the HZZO on this issue, there is an extremely high level of dynamics, and it will continue all the time, especially after the application of these new censors since 1 January 2022. I like to say from this constituency of good news to our citizens, this is a rounded solution to one problem for a while, not forever because the poverty line is going to increase according to inflation, it's going to take more intervention, but that's why one time it's settled. What should be resolved is that this public insurance company, in which you and I, I suppose, are regularly paying 70 kuna every month, and there are a million and 750 thousand of us, should be able to keep this non-profit insurance company financially and commercially in order to be a special public institution, regardless of HZZO, of course, still being run, i.e. to continue this business and policy to cover the additional costs of health care for our citizens with as little policy as possible. Here, I hope I'm our citizens, and I've approved you with this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76190	Good morning, thank you to the cameramen and media representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, we begin our work. The Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget have proposed the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct, as usual, a joint discussion on: - The proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and the projection for 2023 and 2024, together with the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 and the projection for 2023 and 2024 are also submitted: - Proposed financial plans for non-profit users for 2022 and projection of plans for 2023 and 2024 for: - Croatian Waters - Croatian Road Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund - Croatian Deposit Insurance Agency - Croatian Institute for Health Insurance - Centre for Reconstruction and Sales - Croatian Highways - Croatian Travel Transport - Croatian Transport - HZ Infrastructure and - Final Proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, second reading, P.Z. Number 203 Do we agree on that? Tell your colleague, Grbin. Someone's got it on, here you go, can, can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76191	Since unification has been proposed and this is the budget we propose to extend the debate on behalf of the clubs to 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76192	All right, everybody happy with that? I mean, then the individual will be very late, I don't know how useful it is or isn't. There's a lot, 44 individual clubs and 13 clubs were reported, so it's going to take a long time. I mean, as far as I'm concerned, he can, but I don't know if it's productive. HDZ colleagues? Individually staying, yes, yes. [[Intruder: Individual 5.]] All right, come on, clubs 15, we can, we can do that. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 37. Budget law and Article 211 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 211 and 212. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022, we will conduct a discussion in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. The amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on the Defence, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Assembly through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. In the course of the debate on the proposal for a state budget and projection, amendments have been tabled proposing an increase in budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the draft state budget and projections can be accepted provided that other expenditures and expenditures are reduced simultaneously in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be sent to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that amendments and the budget tabled cannot be voted on before three days of the day of the debate, and I immediately announce that the debate on the amendments will be held on Tuesday next week, and the vote on the budget will be held on Wednesday 8. I would now ask the government's representative to further explain the proposal for a state budget. With us is Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, and as much as I am informed, Vice President Maric will speak as well. But before that, we have requests for a break, a few as far as I can see, the first colleague is Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76193	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected colleagues and respected citizens who follow us through the screen, the MOST Club would also like to consult on the subject of the budget for the reason that today we will listen to praises about GDP growth, successes compared to last year, where we were hit by earthquakes and pandemics, but on the other hand, there will be no important item of the budget that is never discussed at least in monetary terms in the Croatian Parliament, which is corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has calculated according to a conservative approach that Croatia loses $10 billion at the cost of corruption 13.52% of GDP. That means 60 billion kuna disappears through corruption. Maybe today we'll listen to how much GDP growth today, and corruption has already eaten it before we go into any debate. 60 billion kuna therefore according to the budget here in Croatia are costs and sickness and age, disability etc., corruption eats it without any debate. As for security, we've paid Rafael a billion dollars or we'll pay. If there were no corruption today, it might have flown 120 of these French Rafaels or American F35s to protect the Croatian sky. Furthermore, Croatian sociologists have calculated that we have already sent 310,000 people to Germany in the last 8 years. Well, that wasn't in 46 years when we were in Yugoslavia, and when you convert that into monetary terms, we gave Germany this whole budget that we're going to discuss here today. And that's why we're asking for a break to further consult, given that this should be a subject that we should discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76194	The apartment is approved. My colleague Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76195	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front for 10 minutes to alert again and pay attention to this budget. This 2022 budget looks absolutely unreal. It seems that the ruling thinks that next year the crown will be gone, that we will have absolutely solved all recovery accidents, today science is very good, and the only thing left for us to choose is the color of 12 French planes that we will pay a billion, almost a billion euros. So, I'm going to warn you that there's a reduction in the allocations to health in relation to the planned amount this year by more than 4 billion kuna, the Ministry of Defence is increasing to nearly 5 billion kuna, the health ministry is falling from the planned 20 billion to 16 billion, today 73 people die from the crown. I don't really know where the government is looking, but we're sure to hear about how wonderful we are, how our GDP is growing. I will warn you that we have one of the lowest GDP growth per capita in the EU 2020. The lower growth of us was only Bulgaria and Greece. We'll listen to how there's been an increase in employment, the manipulation of statistics when 300,000 people move out, of course you've got an increase in employment, we'll hear about how there's been an increase in wages, and that's compared to a minimum wage on average, we have one of the lowest average salaries in Europe, we'll hear about how exports have grown, and we don't look at any obvious external balance of payments of what the imports are, we have this minus all the time, and we need to look at the structure of exports, and everything is based on tourism. None in Europe base their growth on tourism. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76196	Thank you, dear colleague Peović, the break has been approved. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76197	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I am looking for a break before the debate to point out some things that are unfortunately repeated, to point out some patterns that have been the same in Croatia for six years now, which are patterns that say we want to do the same things, and we expect different results from them. And we all know what that definition is. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Republic of Croatia is a country that is in serious trouble, one of them is the reduction of population, the other is the fact that we are constantly failing to get out of the development and development cycle which is actually stagnation, which is based solely on one economic branch, with this budget it will remain the same. But this budget will repeat another form that we saw in 2021, which is that what we define at the beginning of the year as the budget for that year eventually turns out to be completely, completely different. And now we have the same thing again, and it is best seen in the item relating to the Ministry of Health. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since the beginning of this year at the Ministry of Health, we have pumped billions to settle the debts, these debts have not stopped growing because we haven't done anything to stop them, and it's not all about the crown, though. And then what are we doing in 2022? We're reducing the item relating to health care. Is the epidemic over? Don't we have any health problems to solve? By budget and by what the government is planning, we don't have And that's a clear indicator of how unrealistic this is. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Unsustainable, unreal, and how many times we're gonna have to change that. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76198	My fellow coat of arms, thank you very much. The break has been granted. The fourth is my colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76199	The Honorable President of HS. I request a ten-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on the proposal for a state budget. Here I will remind the Prime Minister, and the entire Croatian public, that not so long ago in 2000 and 2001. The country in the world with the biggest GDP growth was neighbouring Serbia. And at that time, the Serbian authorities also assured their public that they are extremely advanced and that their economy is progressing with huge steps. However, if you forgot in '99. The NATO Pact bombed or attacked Serbia, and Serbia was then the world's biggest GDP drop in that year and, of course, when GDP collapses almost to nothing and then the next year, you will have an extremely large growth. The same thing happened in Croatia, Croatia is unfortunately the EU state that was among the most affected, and perhaps the most affected crown by the crisis, we had the biggest GDP drop of almost 8.5%, 8.4% here I will also have to tell the Croatian public that some countries like Slovenia had only 5.5%, Serbia only 1%. And, of course, when you have such a huge decline that you're going to have a huge growth of GDP, so here we are today boasting that you've had an annual growth assessment of over 10%. I will repeat, of course, that we have had a huge decline, one of the biggest downfalls and logically that we will have great growth, but I must stress this growth that we have is not making up for the backdrop we have had in relation to other EU members.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76200	Thank you. Let's move on the break is approved. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76201	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the IDS club for ten minutes to consult further and explain some things. I also welcome Mr. Prime Minister and Vice-President, and if you can explain it to me a little bit because it is not clear and it is really not sarcasm, but we have been working with a minus for 20 years, or less income from expenditures, and every year this is the plan for budget planning. So for me, which I'm not some economist or economics expert, can you explain it to me later because if you're in private debt like this, you're bankrupted by the family, if the company's in debt slowly fails, I understand that when we don't have the resources we have, but we have them from the unused state land of any kind and put into office for the economy. And that this budget is finally balanced because if every year there are so many billion minuses of this business, or the financial year ends in the Republic of Croatia, that one day we'll pay back that debt because whoever owes you that debt will pay off, which we'll start paying off with. I sincerely hope not with the famous resources we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76202	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76203	Thank you, well-respected President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to point out once again to the public that this government and the head of Prime Minister Plenkovic are taking care of exactly how our structure of the economy is improved, so all that happened because of the fall in GDP is precisely because our dependence on tourism has been very much too great. It is from this budget that is proposed and all those projections for the future period that it shows that it is the very structure that wants to change to have as much production as possible in agriculture and industry as possible. This budget is very demanding because the pandemic is not yet stopped entirely, but it needs to be a very large visionary to succeed all of those needs, and let's remember that apart from the pandemic in our area and in our country there were two earthquakes that extremely then all the other effects were much weaker than what we actually thought we would only be able to overcome with the pandemic. Therefore, this very budget speaks of how much there is with the help of EU funds that we have very much drawn with a large amount, and that is over 25 billion euros will show that we can do a lot more for our country and for all of us who live in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76204	The apartment is approved. Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76205	Thank you. Dearlywed, I would like to request a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club for 10 minutes in order to, in fact, point out once again which parts of this budget we cannot possibly agree with and why it does not show any transformative direction for this country. One of the significant indicators of this is actually an indicator of what priorities are in this budget. So it's no problem to single out 2 billion for planes now, and that way we'll be out for the next few years, but the problem is for years to establish an emergency helicopter service, an emergency medical helicopter service that would literally save the lives of our citizens right now. In particular, our citizens living in remote areas or in islands that do not have permanent access to health care and who do not have equal access to health care. It is unimaginable for me that you are actually making a choice where for the price of one, one plane you can have the entire medical helicopter service for all of Croatia and you do not. Here, I do it, I can't understand it. One of the things I also want to point out, and probably my colleagues from the MP's initiative, is that yesterday we witnessed another murder by her partner. At the same time, we see in the budget that only 3 million kuna is allocated for the fight and protection of victims of violence, while shelters, or housing, are being allocated to some 600 and some thousand kunas, still extremely sub-financed, we still have no direction, nor the finance for the implementation of the Istanbul Convention that we have adopted here, but this government is clearly not prepared to allocate the funds necessary for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76206	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76207	Okay. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club before Mr. Plenkovic, the president of the government, starts telling new fairy tales to the Croatian people how to live phenomenally in Croatia. These days, weeks, we could hear only the boasting of both the Prime Minister and the resolute finance minister that Croatia had grown in record within the EU by swindling two things or deliberately deluding the Croatian public or lying. One is that we have not yet come to the level of GDP since 2019, and the other is much more important that everything is collected in the meantime. Prices of basic foods, bread, milk, flour, oil have collected as much as 20%. They collect prices and electricity, water, directors, utility services, so people in Croatia are becoming increasingly more and more difficult to live. Do you know Mr Plenkovic how an average pensioner lives in Croatia? Were you at the store when people take out coins so they can pay for half the bread, so they can buy one milk, so they can buy six eggs? I suggest that since Croatia is facing a deep crisis, and that is what all the data say, so we are all less per population list, we are getting older, we are obliged as Greece, we are the most in charge of all new EU members, and this year, by purchasing power, we are overrun by even Romania, so even Romanians live better than we are. That's why I suggest to you Mr. Plenkovic that you wake up, that you stop living the Brussels winter dream and stop telling the people fairy tales instead of getting to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76208	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76209	Thank you. I'm looking on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club for a break. You see some things and some circumstances change, the truth that we are in the pandemic, the truth that we have had two earthquakes, but some things are constantly present, the decline of the population, so Croatia has fewer and fewer people, and that is one trend that does not stop and other expenditures, so public spending is growing. The problem is that public spending in our country is growing faster than we are growing a real economy. We know that the state as such does not create a new value but is a real sector, the state takes it to distribute by its priorities, and unfortunately in Croatia it is done in a very bad way and that is why our standard is at the bottom of the EU. The public administration actually behaves as an insatiable octopus that is constantly taken from ordinary people who live and create, trying to create something in this country, and unfortunately when only individuals benefit from it. We see it through various cases and eu funds won't change that. So we have the resources at our disposal that's good, but the fact that reforms have not been implemented, be suspicious that they will not be implemented in the interest of everyone. I suggest that once again what you have on your lips about structural reforms is really starting to happen. It's taking too long, and the price is high, it's no accident that people are leaving. And when it's said that he retires, for example. are safe, the fact is that there are approximately 17 billion kuna in each budget for pensions that are devoid of VAT And it covers it that way. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Start with structural reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76210	Thank you very much. The break is approved. And colleague Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76211	Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, except for these reasons we've heard so far, and other reasons that could bring about a lack of reform of local self-government, underrated health costs, a lack of judicial reform I would like to warn of another aspect. So, it hasn't been ten days since we symbolically marked the International Day of Combating Violence against Women here in Parliament, not ten days since we warned every 15 minutes about the terrible fact that every 15 minutes in Croatia, every 15 minutes of women's violence, hasn't been ten days since we all got up here in the Assembly and kept silent in the memory of all women victims of violence. Less than ten days passed and yesterday a woman in Croatia, a woman in Split, was brutally murdered, and 960 times in those ten days, various forms of violence against women were committed. And that is why today, on behalf of the club and on behalf of all other clubs, we will submit a series of amendments to the budget that will not only ensure safe houses for women to stay away from violence, but the money of pointless and unfinished projects will direct education, long-term education and boys and girls, empowering girls, girls, women to be independent, confident, to be able to recognize and tell non-violent women’s self-employment programmes, lifelong learning and all those programs that will help them be economically independent and emotionally strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76212	Okay, we have ten requests for a break, since this is a key document I'm going to give you a 15-minute break to consult you again on the budget. I'll see you at 10:15. MEETING AT 10:00 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:16 AM]] Here you go. Please sit down and take your seats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76214	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, respected MPs and MPs. Today you have before you a proposal for a state budget for 2022 with projections for '23. And '24. so Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric and I will seek to present both the context and the basic priorities of this budget. The proposal is primarily based on how you today have shown these positive and encouraging trends in the recovery of the Croatian economy, the announcement of economic growth, GDP growth of at least 9% in 2021. and a highly successful tourist season that was above all expectations, export growth and other aspects that make such a good result in both the 2nd and 3rd trimesters, and I believe that it will be similar in 4. In front of us, it is an important task to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy through quality economic policies. The main direction in which the 2022 budget is based is to reroute from our activities and efforts towards crisis management that lasts almost two years towards competitiveness and job creation. When it comes to preserving jobs here are our results known 700,000 people in the private sector received salaries thanks to the measures taken by our government, 120,000 companies survived the covida-19 crisis and bridged this crisis thanks to a series of concrete support measures and funding of numerous costs and layoffs. For 2022, we want to continue to manage public finances responsibly, base our activities on effective state spending, further administratively disband the economy, implement structural reforms to increase the productivity of the economy and strengthen the competitiveness of the labour market. We also want to increase and speed up the absorption of European funds. But given the uncertainty about the further development of the pandemic, this budget is also adapted to the circumstances that Croatia and the whole world have been facing for the past two years and we are still in the biggest health crisis we remember. It is precisely on the trail of what we have done in the past period that this budget reflects the inevitable and unique role of the state in preventing the collapse of society and the economy and creating a prerequisite for a rapid economic recovery that we are during 2021. and proved it. This budget for 2022, or macroeconomic projections for the next two years, also anti-cipating Croatia's entry into the Euro area, of course by meeting the relevant convergence criteria, especially deficits and debt, which is, as we know, one of the two strategic objectives of deeper integration into the EU, as we know when entering the Schengen area. The budget is based on macroeconomic indicators which are the starting point of our policies and on the objectives we want to achieve to strengthen our economy, its resilience to competitiveness. So far, the published macroeconomic indicators point to a strong economic recovery and confirm the success of the implementation of the economic policy, which, as we have seen from the record 16.5% growth achieved in the second quarter with 15.8 economic growth in the third quarter, has shown that Croatia has the strength in agile and effective ways to achieve more real growth very quickly than it was in 2019. Croatia is in the first three quarters, so for now at a 10.7% growth rate. All these indicators say that we made the volume of industrial production such that it increased by 3.3%, that traffic in trade is slightly higher by 19.7%, that the volume of construction works is higher by 7.6%, that the number of foreign tourists is higher by 91.9% of their overnight stays by 72.6%. In doing so, real GDP for the first three quarters was approximately 1.5% higher than two years ago, so before the pandemic. We also record a continuation of real wage growth with moderately high rates. In the first nine months of this year 5.4%, this means that the growth of available income and the growth of personal consumption and the growth of our citizens' standards. Encouraged by these favourable trends, we will now seek to achieve strong economic growth thanks to responsible and effective crisis management, and it will be at least 9% according to our estimates internally on the government, and preferably higher. This means that after that 8-percent drop, 8.1% last year, which caused a shift in trend, so the growth of public debt and the lack of budget, we quickly returned to the path we had and that adorned us for the first 4 years of our term. Also, we expect this trend to continue for the next 3 years, we expect a rate of growth of 4.4 in 2022, 3.7 in '23. And 3.1 in '24. Mr. You have seen that and the EU Commission has revised its autumn forecasts according to their estimates of growth will be 8.1, Fitch said 8.9, HNB says 8.5, we are at this point different from our wings "under promotion over deliver", compared to them, we say it will be a minimum of 9%. Also, this budget will amount to 164.5 billion kuna in revenue next year, expenditures 173.8, which is 491 million kuna more than in the new budget plan for this year, so the rebalance adopted by the Parliament. The 23rd total expenditure is seen at a level of 169.8 billion kuna, income at, excuse me, and in 2024 at 166.5. The public debt at the end of last year is 87.3% of GDP, in this year we record a decrease of 4.2 percentage points, heading towards 83.1, next year 80.7, '24, '23. At 78. This year, the general government recorded a budget deficit of 18.9 billion kuna and 4.5%, respectively. The deficit will fall to 2.6% next year, and in '23. to 2.4, so we are going back to that accelerated dynamic of reducing the share of debt in GDP, as we did from 2016 to 2020, specifically until February. The main factors of growth will be domestic demand, continuation of export growth, acceleration of investment growth, and, of course, all of this is supported by the use of EU funds. Despite this challenging situation, as you know, we expect to enter the Euro area in January 2023, we expect the appropriate decisions at Euro Group level in June of this year. Also, an important element of the view of this budget is implementation of reforms and investments from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, according to the World Bank and the IMF, implementation of the NPOO increases the growth rate by 1.4 percentage points, both in the next and in '23. Mr. There is also the realisation of projects from the previous Multiannual Financial Framework, and will, of course, start from this current, plus the use of funds from the Solidarity Fund. We expect significant steps in energy, agriculture, education, science, labour market, employment and transport. Implementation of the Recovery and Resistance Plan will help speed up investment in those two key transitions, which are green and digital. We also want the budget for next year to improve the process of recovery of damage caused by the earthquake and by funds from the Solidarity and Budget Fund, as well as resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and other sources of funding. We have also paid attention and increased social benefits, an additional 400 million kuna has been provided, for example, through the Law on Social Care, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Law, as well as an increase in parental leave fees of 7.5 thousand kuna, taking into account the seriousness of demographic challenges as a key issue for the Croatian people. There is also a guarantee of the fiscal sustainability of local units through the promotion of voluntary functional merger, which is guaranteed 100 million kuna. We are investing in health care, almost a billion kuna, with all these efforts we have made this year, through rebalancing and service of all the obligations generated through the health system. There is also a question of security, the long-awaited acquisition of multi-purpose combat planes, so through rebalancing this year has been paid 2.3 billion, the next year will be paid 2.2 billion, so we will quickly through the dynamics that has been agreed in a way that does not affect debt or deficits to solve the security financing issue, i.e.. investments in Croatian Air Force without jeopardising our path towards the Euro area. This is, when we look at the 2016 rebalancing total of the 7th budget proposed by our Government, which takes into account current macroeconomic social circumstances, prepared to fulfill both its development and its redistributive function. The first budgets in that mandate provided us with macroeconomic and financial stability of Croatia, prepared us for the unprecedented crisis, provided this fiscal space that we then and in a reputationary sense used, in the crisis, 2 last budget, of course they were in the function of preserving jobs, health systems and economies, and with responsible fiscal policy, what I underline and what the detailed analysts of different international financial institutions, credit rating agencies, and that is to see very well the direction, very well see the anchor of our policies, see very well the reforms we have taken and most importantly, believe. They trust us in what we do. That's why these are the best credit ratings ever, and that's now BBB- on BBB with positive prospects. And in this context, we will, as we have done so far, take care of the social and health security of our citizens, do everything, and we have proved it in several megacrisiss that we have faced for the last 5 years, prevent whenever we can take care of the social fracture in our society, reduce polarisation, expose those who fabricate the social invoice, fracture by using political goals that we have witnessed and in the context of the fight against Covida-19, but most Croatian voters clearly see it, recognizes, exposes it, and this game of hiders will clearly recognise it in the elections and ultimately say it twice in the last 5 years firmly and resolutely. We also want the budget to be in the function of demographic revitalisation, we want this budget to be very simply said, accelerate growth to strengthen our resilience to speed up economic transformation, strengthen our security, speed up structural reforms and strengthen deeper integration within the EU. It is a framework and an acceleration and strengthening that, in my view, bests the character of this budget. Minister Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76215	I thank the Prime Minister, now will continue the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric only before that we will clear the speaker a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76216	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's a lesson on the words of the Prime Minister several observations or information on my part as well. So, we also heard an estimate of growth for this year of 9%, for the next year and based on the budget for next year and the next 2 years is 4.4% with the need to particularly absorb which are the main drivers of growth in this medium-term, with the already traditionally stable contribution of personal consumption of the main drivers individually and become exports of goods and services and investments. It should be noted, however, that given the very high import dependence of the Croatian economy, the net contribution of net exports is even slightly negative over the past 3 years. Based on this, the revenue side of the budget is planned, and of course also with the foundations and priorities that we have drawn up as a government, which are written in our programme, is of course the cost side of the budget. There would be only one short technical observation offered among other things and last year's debate a good part of the MPs pointed to the need for even greater transparency in order to make it easier to compare the figures now in this particular case in 2022, 2021, the current rebalancing, or what is current for this year, we have made this presentation with which I think you can see which you have received in the context of discussions on individual committees, I think that the greatest focus was actually on that presentation, and I hope that it will use the same thing so far. I also think that this time you have had more than enough time, as far as I remember, I think the longest period between the adoption of the budget in the government and the debate in the Croatian Parliament. So I'd say we all had enough time to prepare for today's debate. The prime minister also said about the overall result of the budget itself and only a few words on the subject. So, for next year, the planned deficit is 2.6%, it is, of course, GDP, it is in line with the European ESA 2010 methodology that unites or consolidates the state budget, which is the main theme of today's debate together for budgetary funds and also local self-government and all of the adjustments that need to be made amongst other things in order to comply with the European methodology. In accordance with these adjustments, I will immediately draw one attention, so when you look at these tables only to the state budget and you see a certain reduction in health costs for the next year, just in these adjustments there were local self-governments, there was actually a good part of it compensated. So, ultimately, the assumption is that we're going to go with certain reform procedures on the bulky side of the budget and calm these pressures on the bulky side of the health budget, and of course what we need to realize as was the case this year, we're going to do it. Of course, as far as public debt is concerned, what is suma sumarum of the whole story is budgetary and it is teaching and what is a respected representative in explaining the break, so here I will take advantage of the opportunity both in a way and in that part to refer to myself. So, prior to the outbreak of Covid RH mostly for the last 3 years, we're talking about '17, '18, '19. has recorded budget surpluses, so budget surpluses, consolidated general government budgets. Compared to the originally planned mild deficits, these surpluses were actually the main drivers of reducing the share of public debt in GDP. In four years for almost 12 percentage points. Sam Covid one year of Covid 2020 raised our public debt to 87.3%, so the effect of over 16 percentage points of GDP. Already this year, 2021, we return it to the downward path and in the years to come we continue with that descending path. So we're talking about the percentage of public debt in GDP. In nominal terms, of course as long as you have a deficit, nominal public debt is growing, but that's exactly why I'm going to refer to the period that was before Covid. You well know in each of our discussions on the budget we have spoken among other things that we will do everything to make the result better. And the best effect and best indicator of that is precisely that presentation we gave you on the last slide that shows that we practically 4 years of our term before Covid even rated public debt held at the same level. The biggest item of course that was the reduction is the cost of interest. And allow in this remaining time, since as the president suggested, and you agreed that we have a united debate, an integral part of this package is and always the State Budget Implementation Act for 2022, along with those standard items, which you are always particularly interested in is the issue of units of local and regional and regional self-government. So, the level of fiscal balance of 2 billion kuna. Also foreseen in the budget of 100 million kuna was a very common topic on the boards for the functional merger of units of local and regional self-government, one measure of this stimulative. Those 3% of total quantum of responsibilities have been repeated again for 2022, but I'll remind you that in the amendments and additions to that same law for this year we've raised to 3.5%, so we're looking at and monitoring our local self-government and their needs. Also, the budgetary base, the guarantee stock, the budget stock, remains virtually unchanged as well as previous years. The overall possibility is determined that debt on the foreign and domestic markets can be implemented up to 40.2 billion kuna. We have a little more maturity in 2022 than in 2021, but everything in line with our public debt strategy we plan to achieve not only refinance but also savings on interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76217	I thank Minister Maric as well. Now we'll go with replicas for the Prime Minister, there are 23. Here's a second to put the pay phone together. All right, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76218	Prime Minister, here's my colleague Troscott has said this European Parliament's research that the cost of corruption in Croatia is 60 billion kuna, so it's some conservative assessment, it would be 15 Peljeka bridges a year, but that's until you've fully put your paws on all institutions, until you start pulling money out of European funds, so now your officials, members of your presidency, are being persecuted by the European Public Prosecutor's Office who can calculate the effects of our youth leaving our young people and moving to our growth, and it would be good if we were zeroed because this cost of corruption is eating your alleged GDP growth, but we're with you in a minus. And as the inevitable departure of the chief state attorney who protected your Gabi is, so is your departure, as well as the consequences of your involvement in corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76219	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76220	Thank you very much, esteemed representative of the bush. If you think of yourself as a bear, and you have paws, not hands, hold it to yourself. Secondly, it was an indescribable pleasure to throw the Bridge out of the government, the most unfair, the most corrupt, the most mahogany and most populist crowd of local actors playing national politics. You're exposed then, and you're exposed now. Your party leader boasts here last week that, yes, the parents of Pfizer, you support the protest and offer the people what, Ivermectin, an animal medicine, for animal parasites. I see your paws are here, now I'm more clear on how Ivermectin as a framework of the Bridge's efforts to contribute to the fight against Covida-19. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76221	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76222	So an injury. 238, when you're caught with your paws or hands however you like in the hands of Croatian taxpayers, then of course you can lie because whoever steals and lies, no one from the Mosta has ever advocated any medicine, but you've revealed yourself as you said, so they know Croatian citizens what you're doing because whoever's lying and stealing, who's stealing and stealing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76223	Listen to your chief of health thanking you. He's a good chief of health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76224	My colleague, Mr. Grmoya, you know, and this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure itself, it was a replica, so you get a warning. Now it's time for my colleague Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76225	Dear President of the Croatian Government, we have seen that in the past few months there has been a drastic increase in the price of food products, from oil, meat, pods, beans and similar burdens of the family budgets of our citizens. One of the main objectives of your government's 2020 to 2024 programme is to reduce the VAT rate to all food from 25% to 13%. I wonder why you haven't done it so far, and when you plan to take that move and thus relieve the finances of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76226	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76227	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You are certainly well-traced to develop what is called different circles and cycles of tax reform. In the five cycles of tax reform, we have charged our citizens and the economy with 10 billion kuna. We've also done similar work with discharges through administrative burdens. So, as far as decommissioning policy is concerned, this government has also proven itself in reducing the tax rate, reducing income tax rates, going with lower VAT rates for a range of products and making exactly those steps that are going towards our consumers, according to our citizens, allow for different aspects of tax reform that employers practically through untaxable ways give their employees more income. Therefore, in Croatia the average and median and minimum wage increases, and we will continue to Anything to raise our citizens' standards. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76228	Comrade Bedekovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76229	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, the Croatian Roads budget is in the position of the Rapid Road Construction and Reconstruction Programme for 2020. projected 462 million decimal 80 thousand kuna with naturally belonging projections for '23. and '24. and this programme also provides for the construction of Podravsko Ipsilon izlon i.e. the fast road that will connect Virovitica, Špisić Bukovic, Bjelovar, Bjelovar and Zagreb and of course this is the most important strategic project in Virovitičko-Podravska County that will enable the integration of our Virovitica-Podravska County with the rest of Croatia, and you are in your term since 2017. to date you have often come and come to Virovitica-Podravska County and just entering a fast road into the state budget is proof that you have recognized both the priorities and needs of Virovitica-Podravska County residents and the importance of the fast road for the development of the economy and the welfare of the county population. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76230	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76231	Thank you, well-respected representative Bedekovic. I fully agree with you, I am familiar with the importance of the fast road that should first end this stock from Farkaševec to Bjelovar and then head towards Virovitica. There are no representatives from the 4th constituency, and especially from Virovitica-Podravska County, which is at all our meetings, and here is the latest advice for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem held in Pleternica where you and MP Djakić have turned on and signaled how important it is for the economic development of this particular county to complete this fast road. Minister Butkovic, Croatian roads have the task of working on the project, we will find the means to finance the project, it is one of the road traffic routes that is a priority, you know that we will complete the VC corridor through Baranja by the end of the term of office. When this fast road is finished then we can say that Slavonia has an economic blood stream in the road sense. where he breathes and develops. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76232	Now he's at work, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76233	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, 6% of GDP is from foreign transfers, from our evicted Croats. We've never had fewer residents in the Republic of Croatia according to what the Statical Office published, 6%, $4 billion. Inflation and wild prices, that's what our colleagues said we witnessed, 11 kuna long ago the price went by. At the same time you're here talking about no big moves while Europe is shivering, America is terrified of inflation, you high life as Lolek and Bolek are you and the minister, like all blooms. Well oil is 16 kuna liters, people are very hard to live on, health care is in ruins getting worse and worse. As for the standard, and you're boasting... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76234	Thanks, buddy Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76235	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, I don't know exactly what the question was, but I'm glad to see you again in HS, so you're testing yourself, getting covid certificates, getting in here without a problem, that your whole story, the story of one theater of absurdism, pulsism, demagogy, seducing people, and thus tearing down the efforts of brave, responsible people and in health and science that warn people of the fact that they're going to take 11,000 lives to the crown in a day, and you're playing with it so that something in your populist ways will profit. If you haven't noticed, the government limited the price of gasoline almost two months ago, when you mentioned it, we were the first to do so in the EU. The rise in household energy prices was not felt in Croatia, neither the price of gas, nor the price of electricity, therefore the framework we have solved is clearly copied from us by others. Follow a little What happens outside Croatia's borders [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Even in countries where Lolek and Bolek are, it's not bad. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76236	Thank you very much. Injury of my colleague Bulj's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76237	Thank you very much, President. The Prime Minister has been injured by an article. 238, where he said I was tearing down the efforts of responsible people. Who are these responsible people, Prime Minister? On the Pelest Bridge? The safety when you caught the virus was your safety that you beat the virus. What people? .../Speakers speak at the same time./... that you ask of the people. So punish me as a local leader Come freely to Sinj, you'll be free to enter there's no one we're fighting for freedom, not centrocracy. [[Incursion President: Please do not throw.]] We fight for democracy to make this Parliament decide, Not a vampire's ball [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague.]] On the Pelesian Bridge, which you mocked all [[Bulj fellow President: Thank you.]] the entire people of Croatia. [[Bulj fellow President, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76238	Thank you very much. You're getting a warning, this was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76239	Mr. Plenkovic, I listen to you and I don't believe you and I wonder if we live in the same country. You're here as some statistician first of all reading what they wrote to you, and the paper suffers everything as we know it, but on your paper it says explicitly we don't know where we're going. At a time when Croatia faces the crisis, Croatia needs a plan, not statistics. And speaking of statistics, it should be pointed out that we are 400,000 less than in the last census, that people are living more and more difficult, that inflation eats economic growth, that flour, oil, milk all gathers, that corruption is eaten by Croatian society, that, according to GDP, we are measured by purchasing power behind Romania, so even Romanians have reached us according to standard of living, and health debts are such that we simply can't be serviced anymore. What is still true is that no single house has been renovated in Zagreb and in Banja. Wake up, stop it Live that Brussels winter dream and stop [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Talk to the fairy tale people. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76240	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76241	Thank you very much. Mr Bernardic, I haven't seen you in a year and a half until the last current hour, and maybe we don't really live in the same country. Before the last actual hour, the last time I saw you, you know where you were? You've been to Gardalande, so you're in Gardaland, and we're not in Brussels, but we're here every day, anyway, just getting Stier and I back early, your friend Picula, your friend Borzan, your former Commissioner Mimica, who is now your representative, dear and likable Dr. Jerkovic, is it your representative Matic in Brussels? Is that illegal? You have to ask them that. So, this thesis that you and your team are putting out is exhausted, empty. This is a political presentation of the data-based budget, if you want to tell the Croatian people that it's terribly bad here and that it's just like you left us the benefit, then go back to The time of your government and read that statistic [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] It's a fun reading for you instead of a Gardaland. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76242	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76243	He's been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76244	Wait a minute... let me give you my word at least. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76245	He's been injured. In 238, of course, Mr. Plenkovic, when he doesn't have a single argument, then he tries to differentiate on a personal level, but what he said was true, he said one truth. This was a political presentation, this was the presentation of statistics, and this was an escape from reality. So you clearly showed that you have no idea how people in Croatia live, you said that through this response and through your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76246	.../Speakers speak at the same time./... Please, Prime Minister, you are being warned by your colleague Bernardić because you have replicated and there has been no disinflation at personal level. What do you want? Excuse me. Yeah, I don't know. [[/Invader Vidovic Kristo: What do I want?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76247	So I want you to run this session because Mr. Prime Minister has no right to comment. No violation of the Rules of Procedure... [[Intruder President: Please sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76248	I'm getting a warning? [[Intruder President: You're getting your first warning now.]] Please sit down and turn off the microphone. [[Intruder President: Please sit down.]] Let's move on, now it's time for fellow Highash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76249	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, of course the budget is a political presentation by the ruling people everywhere in the world, as well as in Croatia, as well as budget, budget or... is that, historically black leather bag, if you remember where the finance ministers are, to teach you a little bit, where the finance ministers in the 18th century with black leather bags presented the budget to parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I am now worried about the other side of the budget. So I see a large number of items, services, information equipment, etc., that's over 100, 150 million kuna. Each of these items in the budget for next year, so I'm afraid that these black leather bags may not come out, and not enter, as before, as your political party, unfortunately yours, and ours, Croatia, has the power to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76250	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76251	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Highash Doncic, and I see that you're still carrying the literature under your hand, and then you quote, but that's all good and sweet. You've left phenomenal contracts when it comes to traffic. No one has signed better contracts than you, protected national interests, you're famous for it, and certainly with much understanding and knowledge how the state functions operating and speaking. As for the issues of procurement of any kind, whether it is information equipment or something else, there are bodies, there are people who need to monitor it, who need to control it, if something is not by law, then there will be some other type of body that is slightly above those who do it, so it will act, equally for everyone, name and responsibility, just as all countries do, and also ours, at any time, don't worry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76252	Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76253	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. Among the first sentences, you mentioned the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. We have huge money from the NPOO, from the Multi-annual Financial Framework, and here, I suggest that as much money goes right for our economy's competitiveness as possible. In fact, a big space opens up, we see how many supply chains are cut off, and we already have a huge amount, export growth. I think that as much money as possible should actually be given to these economies in order to prepare themselves at a much higher price and at a higher quality to sell their products, thereby increasing their wages to our citizens, our workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76254	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76255	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I agree with you, the competitiveness of the economy is our top priority, and ultimately it is one of the objectives of the National Development Strategy that we have proposed to HS, and HS adopted early this year, and that was the idea of leadership both in the crisis and after the crisis. So, in the crisis as a responsible government, we said that, now and immediately, in an unprecedented crisis, we would give the greatest resources ever to the private sector, the economy, employers and workers. Why? To overcome a crisis they're not at all guilty of. This is where we have succeeded, and wherever I come to Croatia, I cannot hear an entrepreneur or craftsman who sincerely says thank you. There aren't so many in the media, but they know there wasn't a government that today wouldn't work or their workers would have paid, and neither would their families bread. At the same time, export growth in this year is more than 40%, it's one of the main components of GDP growth, so we have agile and entrepreneurial people. We're here to push them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76256	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76257	Dear Prime Minister, we have heard on several occasions that the proposal for this State budget is socially sensitive, and what I am particularly sensitive is an item in the budget of the Center for Education and Education Čakovec. At a meeting of the government held in Čakovec in 2019, you concluded that it will go into construction.../incomprehensible/... how it will go into the construction of a new school, the Centre for Education and Education, which has been waiting for more than 10 years. The school is currently attended by 170 students, and it is for the capacity of some 65 students. Resuscitation with the beginning of construction creates justifiable dissatisfaction because the right to appropriate schooling of students with difficulties is again denied. So I urge you not only your own, but also your parents, students, professions and residents of Međimurje, please, in 2022 start building a new school building in the Center for Education because at the end of the day, it connects us all to one common goal, regardless of the party colors, Let's go. that children with difficulties [[Intruder: Thank you.]] become children of opportunity. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76258	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76259	Thank you, well-respected representatives of Ban Vlahek, we have seen many times in Međimurje and here, and I think we have also been to the opening of various major projects in which both the county and the town of Čakovec, and of course the government and national funds and the EU funds in the development of Međimurje and this is certainly one of those districts where huge steps have been made in investing infrastructure, whether it is about education, whether it is about health care, and education centres are one of those indicators of the degree of social responsibility, the inclusiveness of our general policy, whether it is left or right or center or national or county. We have great examples of just such centers, one of them I visited, recently funded in Virovitica-Podravina County in Virovitica, I know how much it means to families, I know how much it means to children. We will in cooperation with you seek to find a solution to start this project in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76260	Thank you. Now let's go to a colleague of Vucilovic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76261	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Also, the government of Zoran Milanovic introduced a regulation prohibiting the employment of professional associates in our schools, and until today nothing has changed there. The situation in our schools is devastating, I'll only provide you with information for the Osijek-Baranja County I come from. The county is the founder of 79 schools, which is basic, which in high school, we have 77 educators and 39 psychologists in them, so we don't even have 2 schools or pedagogogogogals, and my question is very direct, whether the government whose head you're headed will finally abolish that regulation and allow us to employ professional school associates because I think we'll all agree that we can't save on the development of our children and that this must be our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76262	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76263	Thank you very much. If there is any ministry that has continuously increased the budget and, of course, the expenditures, and the resolution of that priority, they were, it was the Ministry of Science and Education. It is ultimately more than a billion euros through the NPOO. These are a number of funds that will go to education and science through a multi-annual financial framework. I will also talk to Minister Fuchs to see exactly what schools you're talking about, I don't know exactly what you're talking about and what schools in Osijek-Baranja County that don't have the experts of these profiles you've talked about and we will try to find a solution because I think such services and such professional profiles are not accidentally in schools and they have their role clearly defined and need to help in the pedagogical process towards our youngest, and that is an extremely demanding task in Internet times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76264	Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76265	Dear Prime Minister, there are 40,000 companies in Croatia that do not have any employees or one employee. They made 20 billion kuna in the last year. In the last month, I have tried to ask your ministers in line with Mr. Maric, then Malenica and the president of the CNB or the director of the CNB whether they know and whether they think there are irregularities in the business of these companies without any employees with 20 billion kuna incomes. All told me in a row that they do not see any irregularities until the moment the European arrest warrant was sent to Croatia to bring in the minister, former Minister Žalac for paying 16 million kuna to such a company, and the company does not have any employees or owners only. It was later seen that in the next few days that money was transferred to a private account. I'm interested in you being the most formaled man in Croatia. You have some opinion about it. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76266	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76267	Your Honor, the ministers you wrote about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76268	Comrade Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76269	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Prime Minister, my question will be very simple, and it concerns the revenue side of the budget. You are well aware that the only EU country with a higher VAT on hygienic pads and tampons than Croatia is Hungary. I'm curious about when the conditions are going to come in Croatia to reduce this VAT to hygienic cartridges and tampons from 25% to 5%? I'm sure it won't cause a big problem in the budget because when you take hygienic cartridges and tampons I don't think they make VAT on that and that difference big, big difference in that budget, so I'm interested you're the most appropriate one when we get the conditions that in Croatia we do it for a simple reason because ceterum priced VAT on hygienic cartridges and tampons really needs to be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76270	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76271	Thank you, well-respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. As I replied, and in one earlier issue, we continuously reduced VAT to different products, brought them down from 25 to 13, to some and lower. What we're going to do, I think it was also the conclusion of HS in that direction to be in charge of the government to look at this issue and to take a step further. We believe that this is good, there is, of course, repercussions to some similar other products, but in any case, it is not good that something that is necessary, normally in some civilizational context of the 21st century, and on the third 10th year, is not available to our women, girls, girls at the youngest age, and we will make one solution that will be complete, which I believe you will also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76272	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76273	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister of Croatia, it is clear that the draft budget is not only bare numbers, that it is a strategy, that it is actually a strategic definition of government, but I do not see strategic reforms from this budget, I do not see public administration reform, I do not see judicial reform because if there was a public administration reform, then some official who worked at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds would have told former Minister Žalac that he could not do so by doing what she did with software fraud, as well as the director of SAFU. Please tell me when will you finally implement structural reforms in the public administration and in the judiciary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76274	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76275	Thank you very much. I have made it very clear that this budget accelerates growth, strengthens resilience, accelerates economic transformation, strengthens the country's security, speeds up structural reforms and strengthens integration within the EU, but all items in this budget, so the second budget in this mandate go in this direction. In this direction you have both written and national development strategy, in this context it is written to you by the NPOO, in this context the government programme is also written and in this context a number of legislative proposals are coming to you on the benches of parliamentary representatives. I think we've brought a huge number of laws right in the field of justice and in the field of administration into this assembly. Each of these laws is a reform, and when you look at it a little bit better, then you see how much we've done and how much we've done, and we're going to do it further. You will surely with your great experience and to the executive and legislative authority... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76276	The mistake is, no, it's a mistake, there's no record kept...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76277	...to know how to read the priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76278	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76279	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, in terms of health care, plans for a total figure in a reduction of about 6.4 billion kuna, savings on HZZO expenditures of about 2.5 billion kuna. However, we have not seen any reform in the system yet, it is certain that the hospitals will not decrease in 2022. Debts, restrictions are unrealistic, so given the continuation of the Covid-19 pandemic, we consider this budget especially for healthcare not only to be unreal but also vice versa. How will you convince our citizens that the health system will stabilize if we see a series of items from reducing the items for the safety of citizens, the right to health services, the reduction for preventive programmes? How will you convince healthcare professionals that the health system will stabilise if the funds are reduced for both the hospital system and primary health care and a number of other items? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76280	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76281	Thank you, well-respected advocate Maric, when it comes to health care, it is true that you have seen it well, but we must also consider the context and dynamics of the pandemic, we have singled out for healthcare much more than we planned, than we could possibly have imagined. I think Covid-19, and this will certainly be more detailed today during the day here, and the finance minister has already cost more than 40 billion kuna, so if you have 40 billion kunas of cost you didn't plan, then you know what the state and government should do to secure the funds for it. When it comes to reforming the health system, what Minister Beros has to do with the task, which is to ensure the self-sufficiency of the public health budget, cover the cost of effective care for citizens' health. This includes both availability and quality and optimal use of limited resources and transparency in spending funds, uniformity of health standards [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Protection. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76282	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76283	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, here is actually a very similar question I wanted to ask as a colleague, since I also asked Mr. Maric on the Committee on Finance about it when we are expected to have a health reform because these costs are truly unrealistic. If we have a new budget rebalancing after the new year that we're going to do again, then it's kind of a custom that repeats itself year after year to pour new billions into health care. But here's how we are, as you've already commented on this topic, I'm going to ask you about reforming local self-government. Since 100 million kunas are now foreseen in the budget for functional unifications in which you think to do so, it is mentioned that the criteria will be set for the government or some other bodies and whether you think this is the first step in reforming local self-government or if we are expected to take some other steps soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76284	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76285	Thank you very much, well-respected MP Puljak you have certainly followed our activities in recent years here for almost a little over 5 years, and you know that from one classic story about the eternal deficits of the Croatian budget, the first government, which, firstly, brought the budget into balance and then into the budget surplus, pulled Croatia out of the excessive budget deficit procedure from macroeconomic imbalances, raised the country of 2 out of 3 investment agencies, the investment rating agency to the investment level and serviced the obligations in health and whenever it could, and I say so before the crisis avoided budget rebalancing. It wasn't a rule before our government, it's important that the public knows, not that this is how it stays. As far as health care is concerned, I replied to the representatives of Maric, as far as the administration is concerned, we predicted 100 million kunas to join the functional units of local and regional self-government, we have many. All those who want to unite efforts and better work financially well They came. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76286	Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76287	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the budget reduced the one-time aid item to pensioners by about 465 million kuna. However, the current situation is such that this year inflation will be between 4 and 5% realistic and what the government itself has projected in macroeconomic projections that even the government expects a higher rate of inflation than this one in the coming year. I think it's something that has to make the government seriously think about further harmonisation of pensions or possibly one-time assistance, but it's also thinking, and I see that the pay correction negotiations have started under such conditions because 2 years of high inflation definitely requires a correction in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76288	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76289	Dear Greek MPs, therefore, as far as pensions are concerned, they grew more than we promised in our first term. We said they would rise by 5% they increased by 13% the minimum pensions increased by an additional 3% through the pension we proposed and adopted by the Croatian Parliament. As regards the support we gave for Covid's supplement, it was important, it gave the partnership with pensioners' associations both with the union and with the queen and with HSU and the support of Hrelje's representatives an additional space in terms of receiving. As far as salaries are concerned, in our term of office, wages in the state and public service have increased by 18.31%, in education and higher, and in the real economic sector have increased. I think we're doing everything that the receipts are bigger than inflation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76290	Thank you very much. Let's go to my colleague, Peovic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76291	It's good to have a jokebachter, congratulations you have a good jokebachter and it's showing up on the ratings, but it's not good to manipulate. You compare statistics to yourself, you never compare with Europe. You say that GDP grew compared to last year, how many others grew. We have one of the lowest GDP growth per capita in Europe. You boast about exports, what is the structure of these exports? The loss of exports is dominantly related to tourism, tourism has a growing share of GDP, which leads to monoculture, and we will be in even bigger problems with tourism than we are. Investments, investment levels and their share of GDP have not yet reached the pre-crisis level in 2008 with all EU funds available today. Rating, Fitch slightly raised our ratings because he expects us to enter the Eurozone in 2023, so when the state and formally loses all leverage for monetary, autonomous and monetary and exchange rate policies. Salary, our middle salary I'm sorry I only have one minute to break up that jokebachter. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76292	Thank you, dear colleague Peovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76293	I don't know the respected MEPs that you read, but we read very well comparative statistics, so I look at the data, I see what the European Commission predicts about growth for this year, and it seems to me in a comparative statistics of a European Commission that is certainly not the body that Croatia has an impact on in this respect, behold, Croatia will have the third largest growth of all EU members in 2021. I don't think that's a comparison to yourself. Dear MPs, I will remind you we are in generational terms in the phase of catching steps with Central and Eastern Europe catching up policy. Why? So if you don't know I'll tell you. '89. PHARE is a fictional programme called Poland and Hungary's economic recovery support, Croatia was not in this context until after 2000, nothing, zero, autonomous trade advantage, no pre-accession funds, no cooperation agreements Those 10 years make that difference, and that's why we're catching up to them. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And we'll get there with your help. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76294	My colleague Peovic, I don't know what a breach of the Rules of Procedure can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76295	The breach of Rules of Procedure in 238, meaning the demeaning of MPs, you can't say that we have a comparatively good growth means in, you haven't responded to the data I've been looking for, so we have one of the smallest GDP growth in Europe. The fact that we have GDP growth compared to last year, you can't take it as a success. When you talk about wages we have an average salary at the level of Slovenian minimum wages. When you talk about the employment of 300,000 people, you move out and you'll have a great job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76296	Comrade Peović, come on now, now this was really one very deliberate, inappropriate violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you were just going in a pure replica, and about the truthfulness of what you're saying I won't comment at all. So you get a warning. Let's move on now, colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76297	Mr Plenkovic, the famous German former technologist Boris Becker, was exposed to the persecution of German tax authorities and had to pay a criminal tax when the Bavarian tax collectors proved that he lived more in Germany than in Monaco where he was reported to say what popularity or social status for state bodies would not play any role. You do not allow your influence on the judiciary to determine the scale of assets and revenues through which the state budget would generate billions, given that powerful people in Croatia often have ridiculously publicly declared revenues, but therefore have enormous assets. Why do you not allow the IRS to determine the proportion of assets and incomes to Judge Miroslav Šeparović, Inspector Andrija Mikulić, Ivica Todorovic, Bozidar Kalmeta, Vladimir Seks, Slavko Linic, so I could list two more hours. For example, we are falling apart from the health system because there is no money in the state budget, and the reason for this is the unprecedented theft of public goods and your blocking of the work of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76298	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76299	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidovic Kristo, I must admit that I am such an effective judicial blocker as I have never met anywhere, not even in Germany. I'm blocking the judiciary so much that the president of the council in the SDP media case, Deputy Justice Minister of Racan's government, Ranko Marjan, and I've blocked the puf so well that he's confirmed the verdict. He didn't even have her with all my influence or returned to the county court's retrial. I'm so good at blocking the judiciary and the state's attorney's office that the Hops 5 weeks before the parliamentary elections take off the Roman case. We're blocking the judiciary so well that it's practically through media political pressure above all left spectrum, and you're supposed to be from the far right, so with every little bit we have to talk about someone from HDZ. That's it, that's the paw on the judiciary. Where are those paws? So this kind of demagogy and untruth can only pass to someone who listens to you And he thinks you're telling the truth, and there's very few of them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76300	Thank you. A colleague of Vidovic Kristo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76301	Yes, he was severely injured in Article 238, since not answering the question of the MPs was an insult to the people who elected that representative. I asked a very clear question about the non-implementation of the law in charge of the budget i.e. about the possible tax evasion of certain powerful men. Mr. Plenkovic, you're really acting like Sanader before he left power. I must tell you that haughtiness is no art, nor is it polite, and you are obviously reflected in your panic fear of revealing your corruption and yours [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] The arrest of the judiciary. [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Kristo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76302	My colleagues, Kristo, are being warned, and I call on all MPs now, it's obvious that after the Prime Minister's reply you would further replicate as if we were on the current morning, and this isn't it, here's the replica of the replica. So don't use the breach of the Rules of Procedure to extrapolize. Let's move on, now it's time for Comrade Raukar Gamulin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, yesterday we witnessed another feminicide. Another woman was killed just because she was a woman. So I ask you to give us a precise explanation in front of the Croatian public exactly how much the Croatian budget stands out to combat domestic abuse and against feminicides. So, exactly how much funds are allocated for the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, which is adopted in this Assembly. How many increases are there if there are any. I believe that the allocation of more significant financial resources to combat domestic abuse is crucial for the government's clear position to move from declarative positions into an active fight against the abuse and murder of women. I'd like to ask you a very precise answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76304	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76305	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Raukar Gamulin. As for the topic of preventing domestic violence, especially violence against women, then each of us has some achievements behind us. In this assembly, not the SDP that could have done this for 5 years, so from some unknown and inconclusive half-explanations, I did not have the strength, suggested that the Assembly ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family and remove the fog, fog and demagogues that many played at that time about some zombies who would walk the Croatian streets that were not there, I even paid a part of the political price for it, but we are going in a good direction. What I'm afraid I can't stop, I can't stop the receivers, the savages and the assholes from doing such crimes. Unfortunately, I don't have a cure for this, but I have medications to tighten the Penal Code and all the other laws we've already tightened to make sanctions rigorous, and judgments are brought by courts, And I can't influence them, but in a public sense, I agree with you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And as for the financial resources, they're numerous through various resolutions, I'm going to ask my colleagues to give you a written answer, I don't know by heart, there's a lot of it. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76306	Thank you, Prime Minister. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76307	Thank you. Here, Prime Minister, since you don't have an answer for my colleague Raukar Gamulin, I'll tell you. For example, for the housing of women victims of domestic violence, we have a total of 600,000 kuna in this budget, and it is not much better even with a general fight against domestic violence. However, I am interested in one more thing, which is that we are from the main state attorney's report, but also from major corruption researchers in Croatia who are not in USKOK and DORH, but from Index and Telegram. We learned that 91% of all criminal charges for corruption that DORH had in 2020 were rejected, there is also the Borg case. The following year in this statistics will likely be the great Agrokor. At the same time, in order to fight corruption, you're giving the entire 2,000 kuna more to implement the national plan than last year, so now we're at 16,000 kuna... And I know you're going to answer for that in other positions, but there's no [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] no significant increase in the positions for the Borg [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And for the judiciary in general, so here you are, please. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleagues Bencic]] How will you fight corruption? [[/Intruder: Comrade Bencic, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76308	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76309	I think respected advocate Bencic that competent institutions with full support and governments and parliaments are actively fighting corruption in our mandate. They fight intensely, nobody influences them, doesn't control them, doesn't tell them who to go after, who not to chase, doesn't whisper to someone that they have knowledge through incredible crimes about whether someone whispers to them who's undercover or not. It's not there. It's just that, and a few of the things we've talked about in public tell you about the character of fighting corruption and zero tolerance for this same corruption. That's what we do, those achievements are seen. The fact that you have divided yourselves, and these freedomists will speak of dictators, and you will beat as Mrs. Ahmetovic this morning completely unargumented on the subject of crime, corruption, thieving to stick labels to our next election, you can, but more than 9% of the growth, investment credit rating 25 billion euros for you to sleep in 100 years. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And you wouldn't bring dreams to Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76310	Thank you very much, please. Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76311	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you used the phrase "exposure"... in the context of expected GDP growth. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope you can follow me while you're typing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76312	I know English well, and I know Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76313	So, where's lucky that we can apply it to structural reforms, that you're too, that you've made too little promise, and you've actually achieved too much, but that's not the case. So, in one debate your Minister of Health admitted that it is still a socialist approach, and socialism is exactly that, too promising and undersupply. Why don't you give up on that socialist model of governance? So, over too long, key reforms are being delayed. I have one proposal to start with the monopoly position of HZZO, so for mandatory insurance that all citizens must to pay to allow liberalisation. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76314	Thank you, fellow Bartulica. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76315	Thank you very much. I suggest you refer these suggestions to the Minister of Health, and I don't know where he was talking about the socialist system that is ruling in health, it's missed me, but I'm glad that you have radar for it, and that you have radar and little gestures of love, so you recommend that people split instead of demonstrations at gatherings where animal parasite medicine is recommended to people. It would also be useful and good for the credibility of your performance would be those in English, Italian or Croatian. As far as health reform is concerned, in response to my colleague, Maric, I said basic concepts that will be developed by the Ministry of Health and Government and try to reduce the really very fast growing costs in all segments of health and try to better control them through functional mergers and through united procurement. That's what we're going to do unconnected by these epithets about some kind of socialist system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76316	Injury to my colleague Bartulic's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76317	Thank you. Here is a very rare use of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am really trying to comply with the Rules of Procedure, but in my question there was nothing to suggest the effectiveness of the covid certificate, or the need for vaccination. So you're not my parent, you have no right to tell me how I should take care of my own health. I can do this myself, and I ask you not to disrespect anyone in this assembly in response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76318	Comrade Bartulic, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but rather a replication with the Prime Minister, so you get a warning. Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76319	Thank you, Your Honor, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. If we look at the rebalancing items, they clearly show how this government manages state finances. The biggest growth is staff expenditure, and the biggest drop in costs is related to earthquake costs. In addition, 41 million kunas are reducing self-employment incentives and 29 million kunas will be less for public interurban transport for students. So there is a decrease in investment in work and quality of education, and on the other hand there is money to increase the state administration. But in order not to make everything else on the criticisms here, it will be very interesting and commendable to see on Friday that Milorad Pupovac will vote in favour of the acquisition of Rafael, and here for this speaker you stand for last week he mentioned and accused Croatia of ethnic cleansing and no one in HS except Croatian sordidists has rebelled about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76320	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76321	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milanovic litre. When there's nothing else, you'll have to talk about Mr. Pupovac right away. Well, so much cheap demagogy I guess I don't know how to say it, still saddened by the failure of your brilliant referendum initiative now you have nothing to say but the same way again, even if it seems to you Mr. Zekanovic somehow made a move so it seems to me at least by following it out of these trivias and in fact unnecessary comments that you constantly want to raise tensions. But, well, you're still young, so you'll probably get that moment to leave that policy, too. As far as the measures for active employment policy are concerned, there will be more than a billion kuna in the coming year just as a shift from a successful job conservation policy to an active employment policy. We have some information and you'll be looking forward to what we're doing. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76322	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first colleague Milanovic litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76323	The violation of Rules of Procedure 238, the Honorable Prime Minister, no one raises tension here except for your coalition partners who are with you in the government. They have a vice president, they mention ethnic cleansing here, it's trivial to you, and it's demagogy to you. Demagogy is the one who now comes after the pay phone and everything you allow your coalition partners SDSS to do in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76324	A colleague Milanović litre you get a reminder you did exactly what I was talking about and asked not to work a few minutes ago, so I ask other colleagues not to. There's a very clear procedure here, so you're replicating the Prime Minister's answer, so don't do it. You will have to wait for your colleague, Pavliček, to do the same as your colleague Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76325	The Honorable President of HS. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of 238th Prime Minister is, unfortunately, downplaying these statements essentially the foundations of the Croatian state. You cannot say that it is trivial what Milorad Pupovac said, the president of the party that is with you in the coalition, and clearly and loudly said that Croatia has performed ethnic cleansing. It's inconceivable for someone in HS to say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76326	My colleague Pavliček, this was also a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Here you go, fellow Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76327	Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. I will not disturb you with these questions about ethnic cleansing and about the ghastly... of your colleagues and colleagues on the subject, I will ask you how you explain the reasons for the reduction of the funding for the operation of the DORH in the plan for 2022 from 68 million kuna to 50 million kuna, so the difference is about 18 million kuna. At the same time, USKOK, despite the cries and the clear desire of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia, to strengthen, increase materially, technically, the human team of the financial work of USKOK, has not granted USKOK the means that... is the impression that the government is not doing everything we can to fight crime with determination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76328	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76329	Thank you very much, Mr. Sacic. I'm glad you're with us here, too, that's good, that's a good and positive signal, I appreciate it. I believe that your fellow voters will certainly notice and recognize it. As for the political will to fight corruption, I don't know how else to stand on the eyelashes to explain that we live in a time when there are no interferences, at least as far as we are concerned, so the executive authorities are neither on the work of the DORH nor on the work of the USKOK, nor on the work of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, any law enforcement body. I think it's clear to the blindest skeptic now, if it isn't me, I can't help him. As for material resources for the work of generally judicial authorities, I think that we have made major steps, large investments in the final condition of some reform laws that will pass the Parliament are enormous investments precisely in the infrastructure of our judicial system, it will benefit everyone and the DORH and USKOK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76330	We're going to the last line for the Prime Minister of my fellow Penava, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76331	President-in-Office, thank you very much. Prime Minister, Your Honor. As regards the topic of discussion and my reporting, therefore, it is the state budget, I think it reflects in some way one policy of continuity not only of this government of yours or the previous but decades of governance in the Republic of Croatia and one policy which unfortunately leads to a decommissioning resulting from the inability to remain and survive in rural areas and, unfortunately, the continuity of a policy which, due to an insufficiently competitive framework, leads to the decommissioning of production plants. I think that this 2022, as the first year of the census we are expecting, we should have made a strong turn, and not just on the trail and questions of colleague Bedeković, so where to praise Virovitica County and the bypass. Yes, it is commendable, but the fact is that the county will be below 70,000 inhabitants The fact is... closed.../Speakers speak at the same time./... troubles from the bypass... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76332	Here's your answer. I know that emotions work when it comes to the road, but just calm down. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76333	Okay. Thank you very much, Your Honor. As for the census, we'll wait to see what the final result is, it's equally interesting for me and you to see where we are. Unfortunately, since 1950, We see a negative demographic trend in Croatia, there are also former ministers and people who deal with demographics, it is not a problem that occurred yesterday, we have ageing population, we have the use of ultimately the possibility of freedom of movement, especially of younger and middle generation, we have the fact that these trends do not last since yesterday, nor are they some continuity of this or some previous government, it is simply a fact which affects many European countries, so at EU level we wanted to put demographic policy into focus, our focus is our government and it is inter-ordinarily in different segments of incentives, from employment, investment, investment, social benefits, various other forms of support, simply supporting that families have more children, each of which we will do so with our hearts because we believe that this is the key to the survival of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76334	I thank the Prime Minister, now the replicas for the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, the Honorable Zdravko Marić, please just a moment to prepare the pay phone, and then we will go with the 15 replicas of the Minister of Finance. First of all, he's a colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76335	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable Vice President of the Government, we've been running the property, and my brother's brother's brother for about 20 years. There's a Restructure and Sales Center. My question is actually why there is no restructuring indent in the budget, i.e. why this Centre has the word restructuring in it at all. A general rule has been adopted that the company can be better sold after restructuring. So give these people instruments to work so they can really measure their impact on the budget and fulfill the plan. So all we see is a drawing document in which they don't want to take responsibility for the sale because of course it's uncertain. But you're in the budget on the page. 16 in class 83 and aline Receipts from shares and shares in the principal have more than 500 million kuna. So I'd like to know what you're planning to sell.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76336	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76337	Thank you very much. Here's the esteemed MP, over the past few years, on this particular subject, there have been rare replicas, there have been few comments, but I think it was good to keep that subject in the parliament and then so on to the public ether. We've generally had about a billion to a billion kuna of planned receipts from the sale of shares, but we haven't realised these amounts, we've now reduced it, here's the next year 300, then 400 and 500, respectively. As is one of the measures related to the National Resiliency Recovery Programme, which ultimately and outside the document implies adequate management of state assets. Most of it actually applies, we can say so in color, by cleaning up our balance, in terms of the share in, minority stakes in certain companies, which is still quite a significant part. So we don't have any big examples here right now, some big sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76338	Thank you. A colleague of Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76339	Thank you very much, dear Minister Maric, you're a smart and decent man. And I don't understand how you agree to be a part of this process, the idea that this is a real budget, and everything you agree to put your signature on. Well, just the health reform that's being announced that should save 30% of the expenditure on health care on this budget, we know that you and I both know that there's no such thing as no foothold or theory. Let's face it. Why do you agree on shows, on public television, to claim that the transparency of spending on public funds will be implemented on the basis of amendments to the budget law because you have not done so by amending the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, as you have announced along with the Government, and the budget law is not yet on the table and will not be there until next year. In this budget on the transparency of spending public funds 0 kn. Why do you agree to participate in this play?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76340	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76341	Thank you very much for the replica. As for transparency, I did a little reference in the opening part when the Prime Minister and I represented the budget, so I think that a good part, and here are the old replicas when compared only to this last year, the most important part was that nothing can be compared to or very difficult, I think now from this presentation material that this kind of finding could not possibly be justified. As far as the budget law is concerned, it was last week, or two weeks ago at the government meeting and as far as I know it will be included in the HS agenda and we'll discuss it I think it's possible next week. As far as I know, and I suppose by dynamics, because the idea is to discuss it properly, we have already presented it at, say, one meeting with the mayors, the association of cities and municipalities, mainly with emphasis on what applies to local self-government, including the transparency we discussed in the context of not only the HDZ club but also the wider coalition. There'll be an opportunity to talk further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76342	Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Karlić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76343	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, Mr. Minister, for the last five years with your co-workers headed by the Prime Minister, you have proven that you know how to make a serious, quality, well-planned, balanced, developed but especially in these times, despite all the crises that have been these years and the socially sensitive budget. And here for this year, next planned, in the area of social care, 724 million kunas increase funds for the needs of the new social care law and will be spent on paying social benefits, disability benefits, aid for, compensation for assistance and care, rehabilitation of disabled people and their employment will be spent in particular another 387 million kuna to bring pensions and benefits coming under new law. All this actually speaks of the seriousness, quality and care of socially endangered citizens. It's just that it might be a good idea to actually get into a state of well-being when they don't need the resources for social care anymore, but that's of course...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76344	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76345	Thank you very much, Your Honor, so here I will be referred to and in some way connected to the previous replica. I think that from the first day of our term of office and from the first budget that we have proposed, we have always been guided by the principle of real planning, credible and credible in some way and by communicating with parliamentary representatives and clubs, as well as by the public both domestic and international. Of course, in the first year you do it then there is always a certain reason to expect what will and will be realized. We have a really good track record now, so some sequence of events that have confirmed our credibility and credibility, and in fact perhaps the best indicators in this finding of reality and real budget approach are your rating agency reports, or ultimately the publication of the European Commission. When you see that it is at such high rates, as it falls so last year and at high growth rates for this year we are very close to all the international relevant institutions that follow Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76346	Now let's go, colleague Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76347	Dear Ministers, you said in your opening statement that you were planning to reduce the pressure on the Health Budget, and today it is due to this budget that you are proposing to us some sixteen billion kunas, the Health Budget. But how realistic is that? If we know that on the last Rebalance of a few weeks ago we came to the amount we spent on health care in this year of 38 billion kuna. So today we're planning 16 billion for 2022 and in 2021 we spent 38 billion. The pandemic of the Coronary Crisis is still there, health reform is still missing, and the debts to the majors are also not resolved, and I really don't know how realistic it is that the health budget is reduced by that amount, so we're talking about 22 billion kunas that will be smaller than this year, so I'm interested in your opinion on that. I believe that on the first of the next Rebalans, we will talk about a significant increase in the budget of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76348	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76349	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Maybe just one little correction in your replica. Yes, it is true what you said and these are the figures that we have come up with at the Rebalancing Budget for this year that a total of different types of public sources of the Health Budget will come closer and come to 38 billion, which is recordlessly absolutely nothing compared to previous years when that part of private health is added in 2021 to the percentage of GDP puts us at the very top of the European Union member states side by side with countries like Germany, Scandinavian countries and so on. For next year, so it's not sixteen, something of course more. As regards direct transfers for debt recoverys for certain liabilities to wholesales, we provided for certain assets but not levels such as in 2021, of course, assuming that certain steps will be made to reduce the pressure as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76350	He's a colleague of Pavić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76351	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government. Having the third largest GDP growth in this year's European Union is quite a success, and this is a success and quality planning budget for the last few years. The European Funds were also a good stopper. Let us remember that in 2017, there were 7 billion kunas through the budget, 2020, seventeen, 2021, after the Rebalans that we discussed 23.6 and next year you plan almost 32 billion kuna, which is an increase of more than 8.5 billion kuna compared to this year. The deal is 123%, 63%, and what makes the most of it 50% of it... check where we are now almost on average on somewhere in the European Union's rankings. [[You don't understand.]] 50 billion kunas tell plus enough about the importance of the European Union and also EU funds in budgetary planning. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76352	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76353	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, and in this budget, the draft Budget for the 20nd, or projections for the twenty-fourth, we see for ourselves how much the European Funds have planned with a view to dissipating several categories. Very clear, unequivocal Solidarity Fund, mainly for the City of Zagreb and the surrounding county, the first earthquake was colloktimally said. One part of the funds of course when they arrive for another in terms of Banovina. Then we have the National Recovery and Resistance Programme when you look at this three-year period only from that region over 24 billion kunas practically per year. Then we have a multi-annual financial framework, the old one, which we have that M+3 period to use, and from the new multi-annual financial framework, actually one small part that we are currently planning to become, will become an integral part of the budget of the moment when we program and plan everything together. And I think it's certainly a significant asset, and more important is the purpose of these funds that they can and should contribute to economic growth. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76354	A colleague of the Wretch Billic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister Maric. Only on the first day of mandatory use of COVID certificates, so only on November 16, this year, 55,000 public and public service employees were tested, costing two million and seven hundred fifty thousand kuna a day. And so for two weeks every day. This cost has been incurred, brought exclusively and directly by the introduction of COVID certificates. On the other hand, for example, for the financing of expensive and specific medicines is always somehow difficult and there is no money as well as for certain medical arrangements. So I ask you, is that a balanced waste? Here I was last night watching TV and I saw a call to a humanitarian action calling for the incubator. Since we know that the price of one incubator is 200 thousand kuna, it is not difficult to calculate how much could be obtained only for this price of one test in one day. We know that the Croats are a solid and generous people, but is it correct to always rely on the people only.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76356	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76357	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So this element that you mentioned in public service testing and the cost that you said on a daily basis, but all together when you add up, a table that is unambiguous, which shows how much the cost is to the health system alone, the direct cost of COVID testing, from hospital healthcare, medicines, mobile vaccination teams, sick leave fees for isolation, self-insulation and vaccines against COVID, the respirator, is now all about 3.2 billion kuna. So, of course, faced with a pandemic that's global, we haven't, nor have we thought about any other option or alternative is to secure these assets as such. Accordingly, it will, of course, continue to consider not only the issue of combating COVID but all that is related to the health system. We advocate and want to make the financial sustainability of the health system, but of course there goes adequate equipment and devices as such to be part of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76358	My colleague, Pocrniæ Radošević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76359	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Vice-President, during 2020 and 2021, a significant part of the funding from the State budget, as well as the European Funds, has been transferred for job conservation measures, which have shown their own effectiveness and focus towards 700 thousand workers and around 120 thousand business entities. Almost $19 billion was spent there for contributions and for net wages, for salaries. For 2022, a significantly smaller amount of about 50 million kuna was planned. By the amount, I'd say it's for the most endangered categories of employers. We still don't know which direction the pandemic will go, so is there a state or Croatian Employment Service budget that could be rerouted for possible needs and interventions in terms of preserving jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76360	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76361	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Just one short line. The 2020 budget was when we planned it it was the first budget plan with the intended surplus. Three years before that, we planned budgets with mild deficits. We made the surpluses. What happened? There was also a pandemic from the assessment of growth and the assumptions of everything that were the basis of the budget practically everything had to be drastically changed, and among other things, the fact that here already mentions the cost of Covid only directly to health care, and then certain measures that you heard from the Prime Minister are all expensive when we add up more than 40 billion kuna. Most of it was just measures to preserve jobs. If we had not responded as adequately and in good time, I am sure that today as well as numerous discussions in the Croatian Parliament in the past would have been only and exclusively on the subject of unemployment. Since we've responded adequately, that's not the case. Also for any further development of events we are prepared to do so if we need to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76362	Thank you. Here you go, pals of Jack's. [[Intruder Maric: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76363	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, in light of last week's debate on a set of social care laws aimed at, the main objective of reducing poverty and improving the capacity of these welfare centres, do you think that the amount foreseen is sufficient to meet the very basic objective of the social care reform that we have discussed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76364	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76365	Thank you very much. Well right, thank you very much, well-respected MPs, as well as your previous replica of Agent Karlic on that trail, in a way I'd like to try to connect. So, for the current system and all the challenges that we have in the welfare system, of course, it is our urgency to increase resources. Whether they are and whether we can characterise them as sufficient, they will never be enough for that system or for any other system. However, in any case, we are working parallelly and on increasing resources with adequate legal changes that counterpart Aladrovic presented a few days ago, but more than that on economic growth in order to affect among other things the reduction in some way prevents let's say that the outbreak of some new additional ones I would say cases that are entering part-round social care. Otherwise, with the aforementioned package of laws, so when you look at the budget of social care, which includes not only the Ministry of Labour but also the defenders, and the central state office and spatial arrangement, an increase of about 836 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76366	Thank you. Here you go, pal Brumnic. [[Intruder Maric: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76367	Dear Minister, my question is relatively simple. How do you feel as a creative accountant, as counterpart Peric says visionary Plenkovic in showing that the less or less stagnation of collecting taxes on the gain of growth in the economy, that less resources in the health budget are better healthcare for Croatian citizens, how is inflation and the increase of prices good for Croatian citizens if they do not follow wages and do not follow? Because they only follow the salaries of those you gave a lot to, and those who had little did not get practically anything with the last tax reform. My question is just how do you feel?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76368	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76369	Oh, yeah, well, thanks for asking. Well, this isn't a place to express some feelings, but again, I'm just repeating the mentioned replica just before everyone else would feel like where and where worse if we hadn't all been doing what we did all those years before Covid, and that's what consolidated public finances and put them in a position to become of a weakness on the macroeconomic plan, and all together brought us into a situation and gave us a maneuvering space to react because without that reaction, adequate and timely, I deliberately highlight both segments because if we were too late, it would have been a similar effect on unemployment just as if we hadn't responded adequately. So all of this together when you add it up and you kind of subtract it, we have this situation so that we can actually reach the level of pre-crisis GDP in the first year. In the past crisis, it took 11 years for Croatia, so here I am going back to those feelings. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76370	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. [[Intruding Maric: In the past and in this present.]] My colleague Brumnic and Deputy Prime Minister, we can't throw ourselves like that. Let's move on now. A colleague of Peric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76371	Dear President, I think that those others should feel very bad because what you've been doing for six years proves that you can and have something to brag about and everyone feels really everything you do is credible and quality along with the president and with all the other ministers. So that's what we see and the effects are more than obvious. Therefore, once again show and prove that what you are doing is really in the interest of the Croatian state. And what I'd like to ask again is, once again, how much is the health care system costing? How much is it, in fact, in one way, that detaching from HZZO's treasury is particularly damaged? And how many citizens actually have a very high standard of health system compared to what we have?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76372	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76373	Thank you very much. So here's the last part about the separation of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute from the Treasury I'm going to refer a little bit to this previous replica, and as far as I know and according to the knowledge we have, and at that time unrelated, of course, to some of my predecessors, I have a very good opinion about them, they weren't comfortable with that decision, but eventually it was made. It was then presented that it would consolidate and stabilise the health system. The situation is well known for what it is and how it is, so among other things, there are already some appeals that one of the solutions would be to return to the treasure. I don't think that's a solution in itself, but it still doesn't have to be ignored exactly this fact that we said that these 38 billion kunas and all of the detachments we've made in fact to make obligations and debts, mainly according to large-scale drugs, both the hospital and the pharmacy have kept so much acceptable, but still beyond the law of prescribed deadlines, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76374	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76375	Let me just report, and I feel good, and I'll be even better if you answer my questions. It was, in the budget I found that we had a road, a state road for Zabok-Krapino. My question is, is there a Krapina knot involved because it doesn't say that in there since it's a high level? The second question is about the hospital. I don't know if you know it, but because of the covid crisis and because she was a covid hospital, the Special Hospital in Krapina Toplice had a loss of 80 million kuna. Now they're being threatened by a blockade, and not only by a financial blockade, but by a work-block. Namely, the software provider threatens that if they don't pay the war by New Year's Eve, they won't have a hospital system anymore, so they won't be able to work. Will this cost be covered by rebalancing or will you see it in the budget for next year? And one more question about the National Council for State Infrastructure Croatia in what percentage do you take into account their recommendations? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76376	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76377	As far as the road is concerned, it was similar before the replica, so the budget of the Croatian roads and everything related to the construction and adaptation or maintenance is in line again with the general principles of possibilities and priorities. So also the dynamics of realisation of both the mentioned node and the roads in Zagorje, and in Podravina or any part of the Republic of Croatia that we have discussed so far will be guided by, among other things, the financial opportunities, of course by realising from project documentation to some other parts. As far as the hospital is concerned, I repeat the individual details that this or that hospital has fallen into one or that problem, of course, it is a problem that is solved at the level of the entire health system and this particular dubiosis and certain delays in payments to large-scale drugs and should be regulated among other things by this reform. And this last question, please tell me later, I really didn't understand what this was about, I didn't, I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76378	Thank you. Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76379	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, Mr. Vice President-in-Office. In your presentation, you mentioned that the public debt fell not only in the percentage of GDP but also in the absolute amount and that this trend could continue in 2020 if there were no covida and 2020. They would have a surplus of 1.5% of the state budget. However, he was covid and he had to react, our debt grew in 2020, and he had to react due to the health system, and he had to help entrepreneurs and save jobs, but now we're down 4.2%, and when we look at this public debt chart in 2015-2024, then we see that the debt in 2021 is actually smaller than it was in 2015 compared to the percentage of GDP, which means that it's the ones who gave us Criticising and criticising government work had higher debt [[Intruder: Thank you]] than we do now after this covid crisis and two earthquakes. [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Totgergeli]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76380	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76381	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I, even when I present to the government, and so in HS, this very last chart that you refer to and I like to characterise in some way as suma sumarum of all of what we're talking about, of course separating certain segments of social policy, I don't know health infrastructure, but this is actually a fiscal policy of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that this image is something that is among other things and recognized in both domestic and international public. This isn't, this isn't a list of nice wishes, this has been achieved, and that's why the credibility I just talked about doesn't come back again, we have it all the time, but we're actually going back to that same path of reducing the share of public debt in GDP this year, which I think is a very good result. The other day when we had a debate over the introduction of the euro is not all countries and not all countries will reduce the share of public debt in GDP this year. Apropo Germany according to this data drop last year 4.6 growth this year 2.7 means it will not reach a recession level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76382	Thank you. Comrade Udovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76383	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric, here's the poverty risk rate rose by 5% last year, and it now stands at 23.2%. The average Croatian household of regular incomes can cover only regular expenditures, and most households are forced to borrow, so the debt has increased, so in these first 6 months by 4.2 billion kuna. In the face of poverty, unemployed, nursing households, families with multiple children, single parents, parents of children with severe and severe harm or disturbances in development. In the Budget Implementation Act, the budget base remains 3.326 kuna, the projections are also planned, and I am interested in being satisfied or to prevent the risk of poverty among these particularly sensitive groups whether they will intervene in the Law on Child Supplement Because here's one measure that would certainly help. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76384	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76385	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'd say you've kind of framed the whole problem we've already had on several occasions and before the welfare system. So what was the answer and the previous replicas I'm going to repeat now. On the one hand, through the social care system itself, so either the Resort Ministry, whether bound or connected ministries, which, in one way or another, rely on a certain increase and a certain expansion of the censors, or this possibility of really throwing and hitting these measures, sounds a little ugly, but we shoot and hit those who really deserve it and who need this, so, among other things, property or income censorship, as some criteria are a prerequisite for realisation. On the other hand, about economic recovery and above all, employment and the growth of standards, it is an even stronger measure that you are practically preventing that kind of this,... extras for children, all individual items, all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll talk about that a little and later on, and we'll talk about some numbers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76386	Thank you very much. Hey, buddy Brkan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76387	Dear Minister, here after all the replicas of the opposition we could hear that the proposed budget was not good, that it wasn't real, and also 6 previous budgets weren't good, they weren't real. This is the 7th budget proposed by the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, so I ask you, how is it, if no budget was worth it, that you brought a credit rating from garbage to an investment rating with a positive outlook for growth? What's the correlation between the budget and this huge increase in credit rating?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76388	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76389	Thank you, Your Honor, so here, I also think, that you have very well formed the whole subject, of course, we, when we come to HS to defend from this 1 to this 7th budget, similar or the same kind of criticism or comments, but of course, it is up to us to stick to the direction that we consider appropriate, to be responsible for the Republic, and to do so all this time and exactly to quote certain ratings agencies, the EU Commission projection, the International Monetary Fund, ultimately and local public are the best confirmation of the credibility and credibility we have and which we have and which we will keep safe and for years to follow, so that this budget, as well as the previous, of course, we believe that, as I said, is irrational, but also effective in accordance with all those priorities and programmes that we have drawn ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76390	And the last replica, colleague Nemet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76391	Dear Ministers, in April this year you said that economic recovery should not be expected before the end of 2022, and tourism and a year later, means the end of 2023. After this, let us call such a successful tourist season, as you intend to strengthen the tourism sector through this budget, which should be under urgent fiscal and parafiscal discharges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76392	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76393	Thank you very much. Here, just as you quoted my statements and statements from us from the government, about expected assessments if we could reach that pre-recession, every time I'm in front of you or the Croatian public and the Prime Minister and I talk about the practical basis of the latest available data, and I think it's certainly one positive news, because even then, when we said that by 2022, at the end of 2022, there were certain skeptics among independent and economic analysts. According to these data, more importantly, this will happen as before. However, you well apostrophe of the tourism sector, which is certainly one of the most affected pandemics. And when you look at our job conservation measures, practically, tourism has always been recognized throughout the duration of these measures. And also the circumstances and work of the Staff, all of us together that are not only about tourism, was focused on getting better preparation for the tourist season. I think that based on all this you can expect that tourism will continue to be a strategic branch, not the only one, but One of the strategic branches and we'll act like one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76394	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. We've come to an end with replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, two MPs, colleagues Grbin and counterparts Hajdas Doncic, a colleague of the Grbins, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76395	I would like to thank the Honorable Mr. President of HS, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. The role of the budget for each year next year in each country is not just financial. The role of the budget is also political. With the budget for next year, the government and the ruling majority in parliament define their development guidelines. They're showing the direction they want to develop the state. This is how our Government in the 2022 Budget should show its guidelines in which Croatia wants to go. And what did we get instead? We got a document that's not real and it's not sustainable. The budget for 2021 has changed twice, and the only thing that 100% security on the budget for 2022 can say is that we're going to have 1, 2, and probably more rebalancing. What this budget should show is whether we are aware of the deep, deep problems in which our country is. Are we aware that this country must start to change if it wants to be better and more successful? Are we aware, say, that we are constantly giving an identical answer to the same questions and the same problems? One of them is, for example, the issue of tax policy and in this Budget, i.e. the Law on Budget Implementation, and we continue to insist on a completely missed tax policy that relieves the rich through income tax, and then compensates local self-government units for this amount through what is charged by VAT. For the rich to have more, we in this country take everyone through VAT and compensate for the hole that was created in the budget. This is one of the worst neoliberal economic policies that may lead to economic growth, but it does not lead, on the one hand to economic development, but what is even worse, leads to society degradation and this is one of the consequences of economic policy, tax policy, economic policy conducted by the government headed by Andrej Plenkovic and Mr. Maric. How unrealistic the budget may best be seen in the next item, which is the point of health care. We by 2022 compared to the rebalancing we adopted only a few weeks ago reduce the health rate by about six billion kuna, six billion kuna. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister, has the pandemic ended in the meantime, do you know anything we don't? Did we, for example, resuscitate all debts of Croatian healthcare and ensure that debts are paid by wholesalers within the deadlines? Neither, nor did it happen. What does this tell us? This tells us that the item relating to health care is completely unrealistic and that we will probably already have in the first budget rebalancing its increase if God does not give up in the meantime, again, what happened to us at the beginning of this year, which is that hospitals stop delivering drugs, excuse me for the wholesalers to stop delivering drugs to hospitals. That's the reality that comes from this budget. And this isn't flossula. We found money for airplanes and combat equipment, for medicines and health of Croatian citizens we did not. I mentioned a tax policy that was completely missed. But economic policy is also missed. We are constantly relying on and celebrating the results of Croatian tourism. Of course, we are all pleased that the tourist season has succeeded, but it cannot, tourism must not be the only economic branch on which Croatia's success or failure rests. And in the 2022 budget, we're back to normal again. Again, there is no development of the economy, yet there is no protection of those in the Croatian society who are the weakest, and here at the moment, the pandemic is primarily talking about those who are sick. To those who are sick and those who should be protected at the time of the pandemic. And I will not say that about what will happen to Croatian health care and the problems that exist in Croatian health for years and will exist when the pandemic passes and they will need to be dealt with not a word. That's not a word. And that's our reality. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the government boasts of GDP growth in 2021. Yeah, we're all glad that GDP grew up at the rates it grew up at, but let's be honest and then say that one of the main reasons why GDP was falling at the rates it was falling in in 2020 in Croatia. And this is, above all, the consequence. The biggest growth is that we had one of the biggest downfalls a year ago. If that fall in 2020 hadn't been so dramatic, drastic, huge, and the consequence is exactly what I was talking about, which we're not changing now, then the figures for 2021 would have been different. And respected colleagues and colleagues that we have really brought up the fight against corruption, that we have really addressed the problems that exist in the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds, that we have begun to deal with it more specifically, more seriously, not that after a year and a half since the renewal started on the fingers of one hand we can count the objects that have been restored, and that they have been badly injured, that they have been so-called. Red, then maybe GDP would grow even more. And real GDP growth will not be possible until the government is engaged in corruption, until corruption is removed from the doors of Croatian citizens and it starts to work responsibly in all areas of economic activity. We can't rely on just one thing and open champagne because this summer was sunny. Croatia cannot go further that way. And the budget for 2022 is like I said before, and I'm going to repeat, based on the same problems we give the same answer, and we hope for a different result, and we all know what that definition is. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this budget is because Croatia does not guarantee growth either, but what is more important than that or development, we at the SDP Representatives' Club cannot support it. And now I urge my colleague, Hajdash Doncic, to deal with some of the figures and items in this budget a little bit more specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76396	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we hear something about an economy called rational expectations, which is actually consistent expectations of the model in our case budget, provided you both know the model and budget. And now these rational expectations that are important in the economy, so they ensure some consistency, and unfortunately for us, the budget for next year does not involve consistency but involves uncertainty. Why? Because we should know a large number of data that might be predicted and which should be somewhat accurate, but we are concerned because we do not even know what the Covid crisis will be. And we also don't know what's important, which are figures because the government expects the EU component's revenues to grow or rise by as much as 8.3 billion kuna next year. Which would be about 32 billion kuna, which is very ambitious. However, Croatia's economic real and economic history teaches us that in the last few years, the planned number of EU withdrawals has never been implemented, so remember, even from a month ago, that in every rebalancing that followed the amount has been minimally reduced by several billion kunas. And so I believe, and yet I say I'm not looking forward to it, but unfortunately I believe it will happen in 2022. In total, it was likely that, as the main co-ordinator, the finance minister planned to increase budget revenues by nearly 11 billion kuna, 10.8 billion kuna, and the growth of budget expenditure for only half a billion kuna, with that being something interesting. So he has 13 billion kunas so-called. savings, the largest in the Ministry of Health due to the suspension of HZZO subsidies and something at the Ministry of Economy, and yet he redistributed the money. So you have 13 billion kunas less in some items that are, I say, more visible to the Ministry of Health, but that money is in the budget. So the winners are all ministries, and most of all the Ministry of Finance in that part. Now, all of this is based on the expected GDP growth of 4.4%, which would actually be enough for the revenue-side growth itself, but the growth of EU funds revenue, so of 23 billion in '21. For almost 32 billion years, that's a strong, strong assumption. I repeat, and we know that it was undermined in the 2021 plan, and we have no visible shifts in efficiency in the withdrawal of EU funds, so this will be very difficult to achieve these objectives that the government has set for itself. Now, let's talk about the expense side, which I said at first. So this whole budget mantra is actually resting on reducing the expenditure of the Ministry of Health or Health in Croats, meaning that it should have expenditures that would be less than €6.5 billion than those that were rebalanced in 2021. So these are, for example, planned business expenditures, material expenditures and help within the budget, while at the same time, expenditures, e.g. For wages, it's growing. Now, why am I saying it's unrealistic, why do we say in the SDP that it's unrealistic because none of us, or even the person who has their own, caressed, Mr Plenkovic the best in Croatia, sees when the Covid crisis will end and in conditions other than the one-day newspaper, so none of us here in Parliament, in Parliament, and what we should have seen is what health system reform is and for when it's scheduled. So you can't get a €6.5 billion savings, if parallelly here in parliament, the Parliament, wasn't a document, so as far as I'm concerned, and I'm going to say right now, I'm going to be a little naughty, as counterpart Mirela Ahmetovic would say, so far you've had 29 health care systems in Croatia in the last 28 years. So we haven't seen this 30th document here where this Budget rests, and it's actually a key challenge, so this government and Andrej Plenkovic, or we're going to happen to have a new budget rebalance in six months. No, we'll have it, we'll have it for sure. Unreal planning, so income based on absorption is what will happen by hiding billions of kunas, meaning that de facto were intended for health, will now be hidden by different items, in fact it is the main feature of this Budget, which is actually creative accounting for you, and now, I will even say politically that it may be politically opportunised and because of what the HDZ government has set as strategic goals, and that is your entry into the Eurozone, but it is questionable, so across a whole series of other dimensions and regulations that are standardizing this area, which is actually so-called. some kind of moral economy, and we are far from the moral economy and from the ethical economy in this Croatia. And now, regardless of all the damage that the government is going to suffer in a political sense, so it is certain that without serious reforms, in the system, above all, health care, there are essentially no magic solutions and short-term solutions, and of course I have to open up the issue of inflation and inflation here, so as... When we can hide what doesn't exist, there is, especially if we're looking at it with some kind of, partiality I'll say, on food products... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People are buying the most, and now our budget is based on the projection of the central bank, the European Central Bank, and it says that the inflationary impact of a one-time passing character and will be monitored in the Croatian budget, so future audits, if there are, at European level, and there will be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, to increase the efficiency of the health system, to see what is with the costs of the health system, so to make a budget that will be much more realistic. If what the party president said, the SDP cannot, unfortunately, support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76397	Next is a debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, respected representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76398	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, at the very beginning I can conclude that it is not possible to read from this budget the programme guidelines and a clear reform policy of the Government. It is very complicated to sail all documents delivered, so I find the budget not clear or transparent, and it is so digital that the documents are scanned. I expected much more quality material with sources of information, interactive references, but there it is. At the very beginning, it is necessary to demystify the contribution of the budget, thereby and the growth-based economy of domestic demand. Such wisdom in a high-indebted state is very risky. I don't care about opening debates about who and when and how much he owed in the past because that way every year we wander away from the real problem, but I want you to contribute to thinking more realistically, pragmatically about budgeting. Our families are privately in charge of the throat, young people patch up the end, those who stayed in Croatia. Moreover, young people are not interested or involved in creating a budget proposal, and they are the ones who can give freshness and direction that we do not see. Unfortunately, the last such research was conducted by the Institute of Public Finance five years ago. Greater youth engagement would give you answers if there was no domestic demand, as well as planned gross investment in fixed capital, since in the first place the absorption capacity of EU spending is still much lower than the one mentioned in the budget. But all of this will be witnessed after the first rebalancing period, noting the first one, because after a budget like this will be necessary at least, it will take at least two rebalances. Furthermore, given the possible impact on the budget and our small economy starting from Covid-19 pandemics to changes in the dynamics of the world economy, logistics and production anomalies that this pandemic has awakened, as well as the movement of raw materials on the world market, especially iron and oil is of paramount importance that we are all awake and focused on the attitude of our public debt and as... changes in these variables. [[You don't understand.]] In this extremely demanding time, I expect the Ministry of Finance to invest significantly more time and money in predicting and creating a risk scenario that can be predicted. I can stress because there are those that cannot be predicted. Natural disasters, second, and perhaps some stronger pandemics, fires during the summer but in the first place already mention the impact of rising raw materials prices and possible problems in the logistics and transport global chain require the Minister of Finance to better use all the minds of institutes, colleges, independent experts because these are extremely complex and demanding tasks not to lie, not to run numbers into Exel cells, and then linearly a little bit worse, a little bit down, this is certainly not the goal of this exercise or any budget. We cannot and must not rely solely on reports from the Commission, the World Bank, the rating agency, etc., etc. We must create the basis for greater transparency in creating and proposing a budget in this area. This is the only way to have scenarios for possible events as well as sensitivity analyses for alternative macroeconomic scenarios. It is neither snow nor black swans, but the scenarios that the Ministry should offer in cooperation with other state administration bodies as a basis for budgeting. It is understandable and justifiable to predict growth. But it is unwarranted and irresponsible to expect that we are looking forward to a two-digit growth if it will be eaten by two-digit inflation, and our growth is without it very sensitive because it is not a problem growing from one to two and that is 100% growth. The problem is our low base, incompetence and high duty. The problem is also in the sensitivity of growth to changes that have occurred very quickly in recent years, and we are then left without an answer and without prepared scenarios. I must also mention a consolidated state, not only outside of the budget funds, but especially municipalities and cities that are on the verge of duty and because of the constraints in their budget, cannot create a serious development budget. Generally, a country is sold without a strategy because at least those who can only see a possible solution in the sale, others are looking for donations and assistance, or are very dependent on the state budget. EU funds can help, but the Ministry of Finance needs to provide instruments through amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government because these are the basic preconditions for these units to be able to take responsibility in the decentralisation process. Further programmes by the Ministry of Science and Education are included in these comprehensive and unclear EU winged. I think it is important to strengthen the funding of new knowledge, programmes and programmes for lifelong education, which does not just mean retraining people who have lost their jobs. We are late here, we are terribly late, and I think the Ministry of Science should have made a budget that reflects much stronger coordination between the labour market and the academic community in order to create programs and personnel for the needs of the new market, not to have lagging curricula and non-elastic programs, because we are blindly following the plan of activity and implementing the curricula of old who knows how many years. I want to tell the Ministry of Finance that it's so important to plan. For such important planning they must also provide mechanisms that will be harmonised in real time. The budget is a living document until the changes got too fast, and you stayed super slow. The way we plan and how well we understand what they're offering us from the Ministry of Finance hasn't changed in the last 30 years, because in the first place, the need for stronger coordination in making this most important document for us is not recognised. In waiting for the first rebalancing, focus on planning and stronger coordination. Besides making less of us, Croatia is getting older. There's less and less employees, and we're living harder and harder. Only 60% of the working population does. We are among the worst in the European Union. For example, the Netherlands has 80%, Germany 76%. And given that the number is included, the seasons are more than catastrophic. According to the 2021 unemployment rate, 7.4% of people don't work. It's the third highest rate among the new so-called. transition members in the European Union, which is not surprising because if we look at GDP per capita compared to the entire EU, Bulgaria and Romania are only behind us. If you look at GDP by measuring the purchasing power of citizens, so-called. ... we come up with information that only Bulgarians can buy less and live worse than we do in the European Union. So even Romanians have a higher standard than Croats. But that is why there is one statistic where we are convincingly the first among the new EU transition members without competition, and this is the rate and the level of duty. According to statistics, Croatia's public debt is at 83.4% of GDP. So, in the People's Dictionary, we owe as much as Greece. What's still keeping us on camera, that's all. in life is tourism which saved Croatia this time thanks to valuable and hardworking persons in tourism, thanks to natural beauty, thanks to a lot of sun, not thanks to this government. You know what certain tourist employees tell me? When they needed it most, I'm sorry, to be treated by the banks as an unwanted child. In other words, the bank does not place money that has economic activity to a sufficient extent. Entrepreneurs are difficult, and citizens are even harder. You plan to spend as much as 23, excuse me, 23 billion kuna more. My question is on what exactly? You're planning on selling assets for more than half a billion kuna. What are you going to sell out? There was talk of smaller, minority stakes in some companies, but we don't know which. There is no plan to settle the accumulated debt in health except for some generals as well as the flat-rate statements. There's no plan to settle the accumulated debt in health care, and you're planning new duties. So, you've been patching up debt holes since the election campaign, I'd say. Billions are at stake, and who's paying for it in the end? Croatian citizens. But the budget shows that it's not an election year, you don't share your hand and hat as you usually do it in the election year because the money seems to be getting smaller. I guess that's why none of the facilities in Banja and Zagreb have been restored yet, I guess there are elections ahead. When we talk about the state budget, he mirrored the work of every government and should represent a plan for a better future, for development and for a course, to travel the way out of your political programme. You should answer the key question then. How can people in our country live better every year? After 5 years of this government, the question arises where Croatia is today and whether citizens live better and here I think of those who stayed in Croatia because, compared to the 2011 census, when 4,280 million inhabitants lived in Croatia, the first unofficial results of this year's census say that we are 400,000 less. Of these 400,000 people, the largest number of people who have moved out of Croatia during your governments was because they could not resolve in Croatia an existential issue because they could not suffer the injustice generated by your actions, your governments, your corruption. Are you interested in Mr Plenkovic how our pensioners live, our workers, students, unemployed, people who receive social benefits and who are on minimum pay? It is hard because inflation devours Croatia and directly affects the most vulnerable groups of people and inflation will eat the whole of it anyway. And you smile like you're hypocritically at this pay phone and you're making fun of all those pensioners you're raising your pensions to watch this dizzy 20 kuna. Mr Plenkovic, do you know, if you are even interested in the fact that the consumer basket, therefore a basket with basic life supplies such as oil, flour, milk in certain shops, has collected 19% in the past year according to publicly available information. Speaking from the experience of consumers if you go to the store you will see that some products have increased by as much as 100% over the last two years. We are witnessing that lately the costs of directing, such as electricity, gas, water, utility fees, rising energy prices, and unfortunately in this state budget in plans, we do not see in the projections how the state plans to amortise this impact not only on citizens, but also on the economy that needs to be generated. Here you boast that Croatia has achieved record economic growth, but you keep two things quiet. That we have not yet reached the level of 2019, while inflation is record-breaking or increasingly expensive in the meantime. The conclusion is that if we produce less than in 2019, and it is increasingly expensive that people live worse and that economic recovery will be longer and harder, and statistics themselves, the numbers themselves in some excel table to our citizens, consumers, economies will mean nothing. We at the Social Democrats Club don't see how this budget could move a better future or perspective next year. We will follow the passing time in rebalancing, I say I expect at least 2, but until then what we must say is that this budget does not offer a vision, does not offer a clearly route for Croatia, we do not see how the government will respond to the challenges that we can foresee, which I have talked about and which are many, and therefore we will not support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76399	Next is the debate on behalf of the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, which was shared by respected representatives of Bartulica and Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with associates, I asked the prime minister in the earlier replica about reasons for delaying structural reforms. As usual, he tried to throw me some personal stuff because he lacks arguments. However, I mentioned that Minister Beros was present at a meeting of the Health Committee where, you too were Minister Maric, you were present, too, at my question of lack of reforms in health, confirmed that very little has been done since the 1990s. There's a video, you were sitting there with him, already it was a pretty famous session. So, I haven't invented anything and I'm saying this because not implementing structural reforms has a high price. So, if anything is in this new budget the same as before, it would say trust in a large state or in the great role of the state in our lives and why our standard is what it is. So, if public spending and a large share of the total state in GDP were guaranteed by any country for a better standard of people, then we would really prosper, and that is unfortunately not the case. So, regardless of how many people have been in decline for a long time in Croatia, it's not since yesterday, but it's still falling, public spending has been growing for years. And here we have a big problem. It is not only because of Covid pandemic but there are numerous structural shortcomings in the Croatian budget. Much is said about transparency, however, I will remind myself that there are nearly 11,000 items in the budget, therefore it is not easy for MPs to prepare for today's debate, let alone ordinary citizens who are interested in how their money is spent and how it is available. The stability that the prime minister points out will actually remind me once again, unfortunately, in the Croatian case of stagnation, so our growth, no matter how much we boast about next year's figures, is too slow compared to other countries. So the 2023 projections mention a little more than 4% and 2024. Some 3.5% again lack ambition, I think it is too small and unfortunately jobs will remain outside Croatia and our people will be forced, especially from some parts, to emigrate. Last year, however, I remember mentioning one thing I did listen to, in fact, how in an irresponsible way to manage taxpayers' money and nothing has changed. It's a rented building in Brussels, so it's 2013. Croatia bought one building for our EU representation and paid just over 11m euros. That was eight years ago, the building was still out of operation, standing empty and therefore the government was forced to rent a second space for the EU presidency last year, which ended in late June, and we continue to pay expensive rent for the building. Nothing's changed, nothing's changed. So that's what this is about, a country can be a mother to someone, we see it through various cases and the use of eu funds, so EU membership does not guarantee that corruption will disappear in Croatia, and there are large attacks on various officials to abuse their powers. However, often the state and the stepmother, and the stepmother, especially when too much determines, so often chooses winners on the market and losers, and with his own possession he would say in an irresponsible, reckless manner and does not change that. So, it is a practice in Croatia that has simply existed for years and Mr Plenkovic, however full of the EU's mouth and reforms, etc. In fact, the works show that it's nothing different than before. So the works are important, not the rhetoric and the flossulas that we listen to every time it's on the agenda of the state budget. So, to sum up this introductory part, the Homeland Movement does not see any significant shift in this budget compared to before still the thought that the state must be very present and take great responsibility in leading our lives and that is why Croatia is stagnating. You haven't given up, there's one proverb, only an individual can learn lessons, and governments never repeat the same mistakes, unfortunately to the harm of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76401	Dear ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of this presentation, I'd like to offer two commendations to the government. First, a new paragraph of the budget is introduced, called return-enhancing programmes, amounting to 2 million kunas for start-up, so after the corruption and negative selection drove over 10% of the population from the last census, about 400,000 people are now hypocritically introducing a budget item for the return of the expelled. Solve the causes of eviction and do not spend any further taxpayers' money because for 2 million kuna we can only in Slavonia make a barn for 50 cows, return for 2 million kunas of such encouragement will no one. The second commendation concerns an increase in the budget for the implementation of the national plan, for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy. In fact, this item of the budget grows by 18% from 14,000 to even 16.500 kuna. In a country where florists produce specifications for digitalization of health and which shares with Lukashenko and Belarus 63rd place on the Transparency List by corruption really needs such a significant increase in this item of the budget. Ministers, I congratulate you on this generous issue to fight corruption. An increase in pension expenditure of slightly more than 900 million kuna and slightly more than 2%, so that is not enough to cover inflation, and it does not monitor the growth of average salaries so that in the average pension in the last six years it has fallen from 43 to 38% and is one of the smallest in the EU. More and more of our pensioners are living below the poverty line, although as much as $17.5 billion of tax revenues are being transferred to cover pensions. A hole in the pension system as much as concerns the bar is transparent and its expansion has been halted, unfortunately by slow pension growth and further impoverishment of the segment of the population. However, dueiosis in the health system does not spread transparently, and real minuses are hidden like a snake's feet. It is certain that some 22 billion kunas will be collected through contributions and another 5 billion kuna through participations, the Joes and donations from the budget provided for by law. However, it is certain that in the following year, there will be about 8 billion missing from the budget sooner or later. The minister and his florists will continue as they were. The digitalisation of healthcare is going as we are already used to which Mr. Berosa for some kind of project called "Consolidation of the Health Information Infrastructure System" has been planned about 102 million kunas after billions have already been spent in the development of this system. So the Minister of Bottomless Holes, Beroch, is your bottomless hole. The government boasts that the share of public debt in GDP will fall in the coming years to levels that are among the smallest in the EU, that is true, but the truth that hides real problems. We thought that Milanovic's government, with its 70-80 billion kuna increase in external debt, would remain unattainable on this infamous record, but from the budget delivered, is visible to the Plenkovic government since 2016. By the end of this term, the external debt will be raised by as much as 100 billion kuna. So where's your money? What makes Croatia a better country after spending all that wealth? It is clear from the budget that we will allocate nearly 7.3 billion kuna for interest on this debt, which is enough for every underage child in the Republic of Croatia to have an additional amount of 850 kuna per month. It's, to be, it's a real incentive, it's a real measure to be the right of every child, not a social category. For the stable care of returnees, exiles and refugees in the following year, as much as 790 million kuna will be allocated, and that amount will rise to nearly 1.1 billion kuna a year behind, much more than will be allocated for the recovery of the earthquake from last year's earthquake. Since we haven't had exiles and refugees for a long time, it would be interesting to see what kind of returnees are involved, whose stable care will be spent nearly 2 billion kunas in 2 g. At the same time, the assistance of returning Croats to BiH will amount to a ridiculous 5m kuna. So much for how we take care of each other. For some kind of project to improve the system of records and management of state assets co-financed by the state budget in these 3.g. There are as many as 14 million kunas planned, about as much as Minister Žalac has given for her system. Regardless of the huge improvement of the information system for monitoring state property revenues from the state property, the Republic of Croatia is embarrassingly small. The Republic of Croatia owns assets measured in tens of billions of euros rented or awarded in concessions. The Republic of Croatia is the country with the highest share of state ownership and the influence of the state on economic flows. Regardless of all of this, the State's income from the use of property thus obtaining state-owned enterprises, concessions, rentals, etc. They were planned in the following year at a level of only 2.4 billion kuna with a slight growth plan in the following years, proof that you are disastrously managing state property. When a part of the budget, which has a shameful name, comes to the conclusion that Croatia's perception as Kosovo and the EU is not far from the truth. In fact, the revenue of the budget on behalf of co-financing of EU projects and funds amounts to 32.4 billion kuna or even 20% of total budget revenues. To join the EU, we have made many compromises, mostly to the damage of Croats in BiH, located, arrested and tansfered the heroes of the Homeland War, and made many other rotten compromises just to get their hands on EU membership. Now that we are inside and the resources available should be used to launch sustainable economic and demographic development, these funds are mostly spent on purpose. The best evidence that our Europeans are spending EU funds on purpose is the fact that the government plans that economic growth rates will return to those pre-crisis amounts of 2 or 2.5% after all the investment, which is a guarantee of easy economic and demographic dying, the destruction of the Croatian frog-wrestling method. After the 80th municipality has split to about 500, a budget of 100 million kuna is now proposed to encourage the real or functional merger of local units. But over 1,000 pages of various documents can be found another pile of nebulises and items that seriously smell of corruption. Instead of using a historic opportunity to start Croatia from EU funds and put on the pathways of sustainable development and demographic recovery from this budget, it is certain that we will lose an additional 2-3g. and deeper into structural problems. From all of this we can only conclude that over the Croatian people for 20 years. It literally forms an economic genocide and none of you are working to change that. In this way, people will not return to Croatia but will continue to emigrate because there are no healthy and real incentives to keep our young people in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76402	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76403	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, respected secretaries and respected citizens and citizens who follow us through the screen. Today's budget topic is important, however, we would give each other another perspective today, something we touched today during the break, but let's take a turn. After today's praises that we could hear from the government sung in humanistic 16s, we need to look from the perspective of where we are, let's say, how we are seen by the Ind Institute of Switzerland who took over our National Competitiveness Institute. So Croatia is 59th place in the global competitiveness index of the 64th world economy and already 5th year, which means that we are actually stagnating. Croatia, Mongolia and Botswana, so shoulder to shoulder. The worst of our numbers are one assessed effective legal environment, two government capabilities, three competitive tax systems and a general quality of corporate governance. However, what we have said today is not the most important problem, the key and long-term problem of the Republic of Croatia is eviction. Time is not going to warn you Yeah, well, I'm honest, so it doesn't work out, by any chance, right? [[/Clip intrusion: Time doesn't work?]] Croatia's key and long-term problem is eviction. Since 2013 Croatia lost over 400,000 people. According to data from the Ministry of Education in the period since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, 10% of all our students have disappeared. A total of 50,000 has therefore disappeared, while 10% of the pensioners are more registered in the system. As for eviction, 350 thousand Croats moved to Western Europe over a 46-year period in Yugoslavia. In the past 8 years, more than 370,000 people have moved from finally free, sovereign and European Croatia. And when the reasons are assessed, and when we ask our Croats who live outside now, it is usually considered from our perspective that economic reasons are as important to them as a better standard of living in other countries. But that's not true. Those who leave are more often mentioned by an unfair system, clientelism and corruption. And we come to the most important part of today's message. And what is the price of this corruption in Croatia. According to the EU report, more specifically the EP, the index is 13.52% of GDP, or nearly $10 billion. I repeat 10 billion dollars or 60 billion kunas cost us corruption. And now we can put that into monetary values if it wasn't for this corruption, today it might be 120 planes that would have guarded our skies, today it might be a budget for defence and security 10 times higher, meaning 60 billion and not 6, today we might have 15 Peljeka bridges because one bridge of 4 billion kuna, and here we have 60, so if it wasn't for corruption, the Croatian health system wouldn't be collapsed in the absence of hospital capacities and health workers, because it might be able to pay the salary that today's healthcare workers earn in Austria, Germany, Switzerland or Dubai. If it wasn't for this corruption, we could have recalculated the additional 1600 lives of Mile Roncevic, a girl from Rijeka for whom Croatia, or the Croatian people, once again singled out 37 million kuna even though it is being paid into the health system. And if it hadn't been for the good hearts of our people, Mil could not have been treated in Philadelphia. If it wasn't for that corruption, 1600 children would have been saved. The money would not then be collected by Croatian citizens, but would pay for a health system we cannot even build for the reason there is corruption. And the finance minister touched that corruption in front of the open cameras. We don't see the epilogue of that situation. But there are additional points we would like to demystify, according to our Prime Minister. The total public expenditure of the country in 2020 amounted to 55% of our GDP. And that is convincing among all the greatest meanings of EU members. Above us are only countries like France, Belgium, Finland and Austria. Can we therefore conclude from the data provided by the EU that during 2020 and 2021 public services in Croatia were at the level of Finland, Belgium, Austria and France. We spent more money from another word than the state, than the countries that went into the wave before us. Does this mean that we have a more efficient government and more efficient public spending than one Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or Poland that spent 10% of GDP less than we do? Did the Croatian government provide services at the level of the Baltic countries I am not sure. The VAT revenues of the most regressive tax form, which most burdens the poorest in 2021, reached 13.7% of our GDP. Which is a convincing European record. We're not just in corruption. Not only are we the only country, I repeat the only country with a double-digit share of VAT income in GDP, but that share in Croatia is almost 80% higher than the European average. You know what that means. In other words, by almost 80% we are burdening almost a quarter of all our citizens. And the poorest ones. For reasons that 23% of them, according to official data in 2021, are therefore located in an area where they are at risk of poverty. Is it just that the poorest bear over the average heavy burden now we can conclude unsustainable state spending? As the Croatian government spends its heart on the EU, people in Banovina wait 11 months for a simple container. And then this situation is solved by my colleague and my brother Marin Miletic. In two days, he was able to get a container. So the people of 11 months of Mrs. Jadranka and Gordana, purposely their names were drawn, waiting for the container, they didn't get it. As for inflation, in Germany, inflation rates grew 6% in November, which is the highest since their EU unification. This is also said by the Vice-President of the European Bank, the President of the FDU in the United States, I do not see that concern with our economists or prime ministers, or persons who are therefore in charge of resolving these issues. So should it even be said that the gas supplies in Austria and Germany by Gazprom are, therefore, spent. And they're still going further down to the lockdown, and they're still going further into the burdens of citizens, into lockdowns, into mandatory vaccinations and harassment, failed to resolve the gas supply issue, which is the largest of Russia, 1/3 of all is spent. I don't hear that worry. It kind of ticked off some kind of fashion. It's all about getting rid of it. It's not about inflation at all. So the situation is more than serious. Prices of milk, bread, fuel rise. The ruling and governor are making candy out of their mouths, so we had a chance to listen to it today. Haribo makindaphone. Everything's nice in their balloon. Although they are the main and responsible for reducing the impact on citizens' pockets, on their part we have no comments or any global projections that will then blend into our own, into our backyard. I've got a lot more to say, but here's the word to Mir Bul.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76404	Croatian peoples, vaccinated, not vaccinated, tested, not tested, overcame by Covid and those who did not get over it, unfortunately these divisions increasingly affect people in society. And I'd be talking here about all the problems I'd essentially point to some problems I've been warning you about for years. Here is the finance minister, today he was prime minister, I pointed to the problem of inflation i.e. Gatherings. Of course, that's why I started turning the Prime Minister right on the crown and the crown problem, and I would just say here for a little while we in Croatia are not self-sufficient about food. We draw big money from the budget of the Minister of Agricultural Encouragement, however, we continue to import EUR 3 billion of food products and in the event of a crisis, and we saw at the beginning of the Covid crisis that we had a huge problem with certain products that could be much better grown and organically cleaner and healthier would be less tumors than if we imported agricultural products from other countries. We currently have 700,000 hectares of raw agricultural land, we have about 1% of the irrigated agricultural land, we give billions in incentives, and we've never produced less. And the key to all threats and crises is nutrition, food. We have great potential and water, we have a great potential of natural resources, but the fact that it closes the borders for 7 days we won't have one midterm. We have an empty Slavonia, an empty mountain cot, burned. We've got Ministers Lika empty, too, but you're boasting about GDP. And the fact is you're telling the truth, GDP has grown in the Republic of Croatia. However, 6% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia is from evicted people who send messages. That's what's officially registered, a little under $5 billion from our people, our kids who went out. So you.../incomprehensible... that you've been undersinuating with bad policies must thank you at least, we've been putting you through the bill to your parents, to your families, to your children, and I don't know you're sending that money, and that's that. That's the key to the problem. Never fewer inhabitants, 2/3 of Croatia literally emptied, which is a threat to national security, and we have the greatest potential in the area and this is the agricultural land that the foreigners will be able to buy from the 7th month of 2023 for small money. The best land is agricultural land. We currently have a large number of local self-government units, a large number. Many, 40% are unable to provide for one kindergarten child, for one. And that should be taken over by the state. For what? Especially in these underdeveloped areas to finance each child's ability to have the power no matter where he lives. That's what the tribals would do, not yes, so who's going to stay in an area where he can't enroll his child in kindergarten. No one. So once again the most important message here is that the village is empty. And without rich villages and peasants, there are no citizens, no cities, no rich people, no safe people. And the government's main parliament, Andrej Plenkovic, is security, especially when they beat Covid, when they caught him or I don't know what they did, I don't know if they beat him, whether they marked him, how many kilos he has, someone says about 120, remembers his hand in the air, remembers the vampire bales, the irresponsibility on the Pelješko Bridge, in the party rooms, or don't know where it was when the elections were won. So it's not safe that it's insecure, it's the irresponsibility of key people. And that is why we create the confusion of the Croatian people. And I started my speech precisely on not sharing in this moment, but this crisis, Covid crisis we all bridge, not to share people into the vaccinated and unvaccinated, and I also made as mayor of the distinguished ministers a decision that I would be mayor of all, it is my obligation to both the city spaces and the management can come all and vaccinated and unvaccinated. Don't share the people yet, because only apparently can you survive in the division of the people with fiction towards the people who want unity of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76405	Now, we're gonna interrupt this debate, and then we're gonna go to a club statement. We're going back to the debate now on the agenda. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereignists, the debate has a respected representative, Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76407	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate on next year's budget should certainly be one of the most important in each Parliament, which confirms the full assembly of course, because the budget confirms the priorities, the budget is a document that shows whether the Government has given up or the government is on the way to achieving the objectives you set for the four-year period at the beginning of the mandate and, of course, as a member of the European Union, we must always make sure that these objectives are in line with what the European Union has set out. In fact, the government is in its second year of office, and if it has not now begun to pursue the objectives of the programme, based on which it has gained confidence in this high house, then we must ask ourselves the question of when it will start. Recently, the European Parliament also approved a budget for 2022. Better support is provided for healthcare, research, climate policy, small and medium-sized enterprises and young people. Emphasis on the recovery of an epidemic of the coronary virus, the employment of young people. The following year has been declared a year of youth. I do not know if it will reflect anything, on anything here in Croatia, because this year was also a year of railways in the European Union, and we see that the Croatian railways did not have an absolute impact. And our railroads look more like a time machine that, of course, only drives us into the past somewhere in the days of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. If we look at the aggregated data in the Republic of Croatia's budget for the next year and the projections for the next two, we see that immediately one of the aggregated data draws attention to us, and these are health costs. They shrink by 4 billion kuna next year and then another 2 billion each year. I would like to remind you that we had two rebalancings this year precisely because the item had planned expenditures breached, and the epidemic was not since this year, so already last year it was present so that a little more caution on those items wouldn't be bad enough not to welcome us again but in the first half of next year rebalancing due to increased expenditures precisely in the health system. But we return to those objectives from the government programme, so at the very beginning, they have highlighted the strengthening of competitiveness, the sustainable low carbon economy, food self-sufficiency. Croatia is not self-sufficient except in some basic cereals and in mandarins or in any other product. Meat, milk, vegetables, fruit we must all import and the productivity of our farmers is at 30% of the EU average, the food industry somewhere at 50%, which means that regardless of the huge resources invested, these are billions right in agriculture we are not able to reach 50% of the productivity that other EU members otherwise have. What are the other goals that are quantifiable, then let's see where we are? So the program says three billion kunas will be invested in the modernisation of the health system and health care. It's hard, since everything that's been spent on suppressing the coronal virus can't be classified into that category, and we can see that health expenditures are shrinking. Then he says the National Children's Hospital in Zagreb will be built, the Immunological Institute will be revitalised on those items, I see nothing here neither next year nor in projections for 2023, 2024. Then one of the goals is to increase pensions by 10% and sustainability of the pension system. Bigger pension expenditures are planned, that's a fact, about $1.1 billion, and that probably means an increase in pensions, but we also know that inflation has accelerated something, so it's probably just going to be, I hope, to cover and keep up with real growth. So what we see, we see that only half of the funds needed to pay off pensions are collected from the contribution, which we definitely cannot put into building and achieving that goal, which is the sustainability of the pension system. If we continue to make half the necessary funds out of the budget, it's all just not sustainable. Then, of course, there's something that always comes out first in pre-election time and it's very attractive like this, which is reducing VAT to all food, it's currently on bread, milk 5%, meat, fish, etc. Oil seems to me 13% so here it says that all food will be reduced VAT from 25 to 13%. If we see VAT revenues continue to grow, such projections are in the budget, which means there are no indications that there would be, and we also saw in response to the question asked by my colleague Pavliček that there are no indications there to reduce VAT to food. Then investment in research and development should increase from the current 1 to 2.5%, even those items that are expressed in different positions show a tendency to decrease. Then one fascinating goal is to go a little bit into the science fiction category, and it speaks of reducing the number of officials in our public administration and making it possible to functionally connect municipalities. This is foreseen in this budget next year 100 million kuna and then another 100 million in 2023, 2024, and this really is not enough funds for any more serious functional integration of municipalities, that is what every commissioner will tell you. And here I'm going to just put one parallel on you to see how insufficient that is for any more serious reform. So the territorial reconstruction is always very much talked about in pre-election time, then starts, always appears more or less from the scientific community the same from academic circles means the same people who already have finished solutions. It's nothing, so five regions, I don't know how to end this merger, like this, right there, but then it goes into oblivion again, and before the election, it comes back again. We are at the last, now I do not know exactly whether this or last year, when we changed the Law on the financing of units of local self-government additionally burdened the budget with 2 billion kunas standing and now to help undeveloped municipalities and cities, but therefore we left these funds to those developed, so let's say the city of Zagreb records an increase of 900 million kuna based on the law adopted in this House of Commons. But we see that this is not enough, so then the mayor of Zagreb every little pilgrimage in the government asks for the prolonging of that 750 million kuna loan and the new unambiguous loan. Why am I listing all these numbers now? So you can see how insufficient this 100 million kuna is for anything more serious if we really want that territorial organization of over 500 municipalities and cities to change. So that's why I'm saying that this goal from the government program is really in the science fiction category. It counts on the resources from the Recovery and Resistance Plan, but we must also be aware that these funds will be withdrawn in accordance with certain objectives and parameters set out in that document, so that if we do not meet all these goals, there may be significant problems, but here I will not be a bad prophet, I hope that everything will be okay because there is much, very much, depends. I also hope that the government will take these goals a little more seriously, because if we see only these couples that were in the government's programme, we see that it's not too much work to achieve these goals, but here are some of us taking these documents and reading them from time to time, we haven't forgotten them, we're going to take us and the NPOO and see how we stand. This, because how can we take any document strategically seriously if we see that some things are simply copied and cited, and ultimately through the budget, through a document that should achieve these objectives there is no indication that these objectives will be achieved. What is essentially a fundamental feature of this budget is stability and there we cannot argue that nothing spectacular is changing, more or less the whole budget is made on the trail of what it has been and so far, but we need to ask ourselves where we are and whether we need stability at this point. When you are at the beginning of the EU by all parameters, then you do not need stability, then without serious reforms, without facing where we cannot achieve certain shifts. What I'm warning you about all the time, here's what I'm going to do again, although I don't want to be boring is this, this growth in nominal public debt in the fifth year. 90 billion kunas, and somehow it does say that there is no indication that the expenditure side of the budget will come down into certain reasonable frameworks because here we are now under this covid and this crown crisis putting a lot of what we need and what we don't need. And if we look at some reforms so far, the reform of education in the last term has been reduced more or less to buying information equipment, health reform has been in the drawer for some time now, although it is not an objective time for reforms, reform procedures given the burdens suffered by healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals in this situation. The reform of the public administration is stuck somewhere in the impasses of another mega-minister, and this famous territorial reconstruction has been reduced to a functional voluntary merger of municipalities for which 100 million kuna has been allocated. What is the fact that, for years, state property has generated minor revenues and, of course, the question is raised about the justification of state ownership in companies that are not of strategic importance because in this crisis the role and influence of the state is further strengthened because when you talk to entrepreneurs, then you see that they are doomed to HBOR funds or from HAMAG-BICRO, and in banks you will get a loan for the new Mercedes C class much easier than for the CNC machine, and that is one obstacle and the fact that many entrepreneurs face. In the end, I will look at these inflationary movements that have been spoken of, and the fact that this is being pointed out and in this macroeconomic framework which has been the basis for this budget to exist, it is not negligible, monetary expansion across Europe has already been there since the last crisis of 2008-2009. the mass of money has increased quite well, but there is also a rise in the price of raw materials, a disturbance in global supply chains that currently stand out as the main causes of inflation, but we must not ignore that monetary expansion and should not be afraid of people, then there is no inflation yet at some level that would be worrying, but if we look at the products that are part of these some consumer baskets, the products that are in the category of food, then the part that relates to energy, then it is already a bit worrying and frankly I do not like this term which is probably in some kind of a piece of cuisine called the kitchen. There's no perception of inflation, there's only inflation. So we all know that it counts, there goes some 800, and maybe even more products, but in Croatia, that share is for food products, for this basic consumer basket of some kind far bigger than in the developed member states, and we have to take care of the poorest and most vulnerable members of our community as responsible, so that the government's objective of reducing VAT on food would not be a bad thing to consider and go into implementation, regardless of what our incomes well depend on VAT, but you promised so now maybe it's time to fulfill it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76408	Next is the debate on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, which divided the respected representatives Mrak-Taritaš and Pulak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76409	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers and State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is known and expected that our Prime Minister Plenkovic and I do not agree often, but one of the few things I have to agree on is that the coronaryvirus has completely reversed all our priorities in the last 2nd century. and the economic crisis and changes in world markets and the oscillation of energy prices and disruptions in supply chains and inflation growth. All that was brought to us or at least helped by that unfortunate virus. But now it's almost 2 years old. We live like that and after the original shock, it's time to get together and focus on the new circumstances and move on. And this draft budget does not act as a step further. It does not act as a guideline to some new clear planned future of Croatia, and should at least hint at where we are going because this is what the budget is for. It must show what kind of country we are and what we want to be. From this proposal, it seems to me that we are still a small non-ambitious country without the right idea, which is to push us forward, making it a step towards a successful and richer future. This is unfortunately not seen from this draft budget. Of course the budget is one large part accounting, income, expenditure, homes, categories, indices, etc., all that's fine. And I have no doubt at all that the trade is correct, but the budget is above all a political document. From it must be seen the intention of those who are in power where they want to take us, and from this document we read that they don't actually know it. Everywhere a little bit, but nowhere is actually our permanent position within the EU. After more than eight years. Memberships everywhere a bit, and nowhere in fact, and in practice this means that we are at the bottom of the table with our faithful friends Bulgaria and Romania. And I am not talking about whether or not we agree on the priorities and direction of development that the government has set or proposed. It would be a second step in this debate, but to him, to that second step we can never get to. The problem is that there are no priorities or that direction at all, so we can't even discuss whether or not we agree with these priorities. The biggest item and the change that is in the world is the purchase of military planes. We've had a little airing here recently in Mark's square along with the French president, and it's all great and great. I don't want to, and I'm not going to start discussing whether we need any fighter planes at all, and if we need to know if these were the right choice. It's a debate for some other moments, and now I don't care about such a debate for the truth. But what I'm curious about is whether these planes are the ones burning in the budget as the item on which the most increasing consumption is? Does this mean that the government has set such a course for Croatia's military development because if that's the direction then this is about planes and helicopters and ships is not enough, of course that's not the direction. What I'm saying and I'm going to repeat that it's from this proposal that you can't see, and we can't see which direction we're going in, and that's what bothers me the most from year to year. And to be honest with you, it didn't start with this government or the governments of Prime Minister Plenkovic, and now we're not giving them one undeserved guilt, but what they expect from the prime minister and the government after six years. The term of office which is still 3 years ahead of them. who, from the current perspective, seem relatively calm as far as the parliamentary majority is concerned, have a little more courage and will to focus. Whether it's some serious reform, some serious cut or some serious redistribution that would signal by opening at least one new page. Let me remind you, we've given millions for the national development strategy, it's a long forgotten document. Where do you see it and do you even see it in this budget? The EU has plans that are so ambitious in the field of green development and green policies that even the most developed Member States are not sure whether they will be able to achieve them, and this green transition could be a serious opportunity for Croatia, perhaps the last train for our country to catch a connection with those who are more successful than us. I don't see that in my budget enough. The green transition is declared and mentioned locally, but it's not as a system, it's not as a guideline, it's not seen. And we plan to use various European sources of money again as the most successful in the world, and the reality is that we are the worst or the worst. Is it realistic, then, and can we even rely on such planning? On the other hand, we are reducing by billions of transfers to rehabilitate health care and payment to HZZO because exactly what we are based on is the reform carried out by Minister Beros? I'll see you again at one point on rebalancing when the wholesaler knows which way to stop the drug delivery. What I'm saying is the budget is one and the same as always without blood and meat, without the courage with the items that are initially unreally planned and the economic growth itself is such, this year 9%, but it's barely returning to the times before the crisis, and one new and unfortunate variant of the virus from the beginning of this speech can bring it down, and the next years growth is planned by 4.4, so 3.7, and 3.1%. It's still not enough to fall off the bottom we are on, and that's what I'm warning you about and what I'm talking about all the time. There's no idea how to move on, how to get off the bottom. The Centre and GLAS Club will propose a series of amendments, of course. They show some of the topics that we feel are important and should be especially worked on and then invested in money. One of those topics is education that we kind of forgot, we still think it's the only way to make a real step forward. After all, Croatian companies have also shown that in recent years they have made a major leap including two of our unicorns Infobip and Rimac, all of these are companies that are looking for a highly qualified and educated workforce, not to say that the curricular reform has not yet been implemented. But in the end, if you thought I wouldn't mention it, or I'll forget you were wrong. VAT revenues should increase more than 7 billion kuna and 14% compared to this year, but regardless of the situation, there was no place to reduce VAT to women's hygiene needs, cartridges and tampons. And that's why this budget shows what kind of country we are and where we're going, and when it comes to reducing VAT to hygienic pads and tampons, you might be ashamed because you haven't even found a hint of understanding that this has happened since 1.1 next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76410	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and colleagues. The Prime Minister mentioned these two magic words, structural reforms earlier in his presentation of the Budget. I'd compare it to something, you know what they say, teenage, if I didn't say it right now, everybody's talking about it, but nobody's practicing it. So we don't know what structural reforms the Prime Minister was talking about when what can be seen from this budget is that these structural reforms have neither a word nor a letter. So there is no reform of health care, no reform of local self-government and no reform of the judiciary. This speaks of the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which, here, regardless of what is at the head, has a new head, says the same, are almost the same sentences as those written here by my colleague Peric when she was at the head of this commission which she says, so here, I quote, is primarily an emphasis on the reform of the health system in a way that does not generate any additional losses that have been continuously generated from year to year subject to the rebalance of the state budget. So, here, how do we know there's no health reform? We can see in this Budget, and here I have spoken and tried to talk to the Minister at the Committee on Finance, the expenditures mentioned in this budget and budget projections for the next 2 years when the health talks are simply set unreal low and not just for the cost of the pandemic. In the past few years, here we are, as the Commission says, witnessing regular health debt recoverys, for example. Debts according to wholesales are almost as old as the Croatian state, a poorly complex system in which the necessary rationalizations were failed for decades, came toll, here, right at the time when the general pandemic ruled, when we were attacked by Covid-19. The cry for the unsustainability of the system is not of course the result of the current Covid crisis but is a long-standing problem. The state has spent around 20 billion kuna on health recoverys so far, however, health care such as no single financial injection or new recovery can help, can only be helped by reforms that none of the health ministers have yet managed to implement. It is only when every hospital in the country is able to make money at a monthly level, whether through a limit or through the services provided and not forced to live on debt, that we can count with health care without hospital bills blocking and with proper delivery of medicines. So here in the budget we see, this year the expenditures of 22.5 billion kuna are expected, in '22. The year is planned to spend 16, '23. 13.9, so if health care were also run by a competent, ambitious minister, and not the current one who plans to lose health care, it would be covered by raising the amount of contributions and transferring expenditure to other budget users, so this would be even then deeply unrealistic. The same system error can be detected in defence expenditures after a recent increase in expenditure by 2.4 billion kuna for payments, the advance payment of the delivery of fighter planes over the next 3 years, there are several billion more to be paid. It is unclear how it will be possible to cut defence expenditure in those years when it is necessary to finance the adjustment of infrastructure in the use of new aircraft and, in addition, we also have projects to equip the entire system. Why, I said at the beginning, here, we don't have health reform, why I don't think we have a reform of local self-government, so this amount of 100 million kuna, which in some way the state throws as bait, 556 municipalities and cities and 20 counties, so they're throwing a 100 million kuna bait and I say, let's you get together voluntarily, we'll wait, here, the government will publish or whoever will already publish some criteria that will be able to functionally unite those municipalities. Here, if you will, if you will, you will end up with 100 million kunas and this, of course, also the minister and the government say that this is the beginning of a reform of local self-government. Here, come on, we can open a bookie here from the pay phone and see how many municipalities are really going to respond to this call and how many smaller municipalities we're going to have next year in the country, if this is the beginning, indeed, of a territorial reconstruction. Here, as my colleague said, every little bit of the last 10 years, you've had various conferences for 15 years, we recently had one conference in Sheraton, very quality and with experts, with quality and work that we expect to be printed, about what kind of reform of local self-government we need, so you have 5 regions, the last assessment is that we need 7 regions and 220 cities and municipalities. So, the profession is very clear on this point, the profession says that this country can't withstand this number of cities and municipalities, but here, for 3 years there's peace, 3 years without a choice, no one should be invested, no one should be promised any things, so here, in those 3 years, is this country able, is this government able to launch any possible unpopular measures, unpopular reforms, all in fact in the long-term development and economic growth? Here, I will finish again with a sentence from the Commission's position, a lack of certain circular reform procedures at the level of the Republic of Croatia will prevent stronger economic work and therefore here they say more account should be taken of the usefulness of the funds from the recovery and resilience mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76411	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76412	Thank you, dear Vice President. Mr. Ministers and Associates, a number of colleagues mentioned before me that in 2022 the planned revenue of 164 billion kuna, expenditures of 173,8 billion kuna, thus projecting a deficit of 9.3 billion for 2022. As covered by this deficit, we asked the minister he said the difference between the total income from the financial assets and the borrowing. Given that in the last 2 years, we have been found in two different situations whose consequences we are looking at today are the same projections that are missing 2.1% of GDP shouldn't surprise us, but it certainly needs to occupy our attention. We see that, in the budget, the funds from the Solidarity Fund were projected for, the solidarity of the EU to finance part of the reconstruction of public infrastructure, particularly those of education, health and culture, damaged in devastating earthquakes, which is certainly something to point out. The biggest increase in expenditure is related to the earthquake, followed by expenditure on the welfare system, pension and pension system, and the increase in expenditure on these items is quite logical given the circumstances that have occurred to us. In the last two discussions, we heard something about a functional merger and in a few words from my club about it. So the amount for fiscal balancing of the fiscal capacities of local self-government units remained the same as for the previous year while inflation movements accelerated, and new commitments were transferred to local self-government units. Which is also important to point out. It is good that the funds provided by the Fund for the co-financing of projects from European funds are simplified and procedures related to the borrowing of JLS and legal entities owned by local self-government or commercial companies, thereby facilitating the financing of EU projects and the borrowing of legal persons owned by JLS. This enables an easier way to service existing obligations and responsibilities, i.e. utility companies, to be in charge except for investments and to finance current costs. As for mergers, functional mergers are foreseen by the law of 100 million kuna intended for units of local self-government that are voluntarily, functionally combined or truly combined during 2022. It is doubtful for my club to express a functional or real merger because real merger requires amendments to the law on the area, on areas of county, cities and municipalities and decisions on voluntary merger of local self-government units by their representative bodies to most of the votes of all members after an opinion has been obtained in the field of units to which the merger relates. That's something to be said for this pay phone. How voluntary merger of local self-government units will reflect the rights of members of national, national minorities arising from the constitutional law can be considered, of course, by dodging to make a difference. Especially when it comes to barely existing bilingualism on glass feet. In any event, when making a decision on the criteria for granting aid or in another appropriate way, the government should ensure that the functional and real merger of JLS does not affect the acquired, constitutional rights of citizens of national minorities in the field of units to which the merger relates. Of course, when making a decision on the criterion for granting aid or in other appropriate way, it should be ensured that, in the process of voluntary merger of units of local self-government, representative bodies obtain citizens' opinions in a way that will ensure the credibility and objectivity of the results and make a decision on the voluntary merger of JLS in accordance with the will or opinion of the citizens of the area to which it relates. A few words about education when it comes to national minorities, which are naturally reflected, to which this budget is reflected. And it is important to highlight the fact that it is planning to allocate more resources to encourage the education of national minorities, but I still think it would be good to increase the funds for preschool education for children to be members of national minorities because, as the funds continue to be allocated according to the sublaw formulas of the late 1990s, when you will agree, the value of the money was not, of course, identical to today's. As regards the earthquake, the items of the budget provided for by the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing have increased multiple compared to the previous period. The good part refers to the cost of restoring constructive damage after the earthquake and at the same time we see an increase in the amount foreseen for housing care. In this way, it certainly seeks to resolve the housing issue for individual groups through regular housing programs, which is certainly good and what should be welcomed. The funds foreseen for the recovery of earthquake-affected areas are projected in amounts which are held to be sufficient for recovery and a good part of the budget users has items relating to the recovery by the earthquake affected areas, but of course what should be a priority is speeding up the reconstruction process so that it does not last indefinitely because we are already late with the same. And it may be necessary to consider increasing certain items of the budget relating to the human resources of those bodies that will be in charge of rebuilding the earthquake affected areas. I will also say something about the programme or the programme “Wish” which, as it is known, was aimed at hiring more difficult employment categories and, on the other hand, at hiring women in an unfavourable position in the labour market on the one hand and at caring for older people on the other hand. So behind us are two successful stages of the project, both from the perspective of the employees of women, both from the perspective of the users and older people, and in the unfavourable situation they were concerned about. Since the project has proved to be meaningful and contains three priority axes of the European Social Fund, employment, social inclusion and education, I do not know how much possible, but I think we should create a space that would bridge the period to a possible third phase because this project has proved to be extremely good and one of the most useful projects we have had. A few words about balanced regional development. I'm glad to see that the draft state budget for 2022 with projections on '23. And '24. It is envisaged to continue the good practice so far in the form of a programme of assistance in the work of the OPGs, which strengthens rural environments whose strength and importance is very rare in fact, not rarely but is very often neglected. It is good that within other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and the Ministry of Regional Development, there is an item intended to improve infrastructure in areas populated by national minorities as well as programmes to encourage entrepreneurship and crafts in areas that have been permanently inhabited by members of national minorities who have proved to be excellent and crucial in recent years, almost guaranteed by the rest of the population in the area. Although the pandemic of the coronary virus and earthquakes in the last two years has led to significant negative social economic consequences, we see that the government of the Republic of Croatia has used the created fiscal space from previous years for faster and stronger fiscal support to maintain employment and overall economic activity. The SDSS representative club will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76413	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76414	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, Treasury, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a state budget for 2022 with projections for '23. And '24. together with the financial plans of extra-financial users for the same period, as well as the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2022. As repeatedly noted after this 2021 and 2020 respectively, which was extremely difficult and also very uncertain and where GDP fell by 8.1% in 2021, we expect real growth to be around 9.% and 2022. 4,4 and 3,7 and 3.1 respectively in 2024.g. This dynamic also includes significant positive effects that NPOO will have so that this growth will also be based on the contribution of domestic demand, but also on an increase in investment. There has been a rise in consumer prices and inflation in 2021, but this is something that could have been expected and happening around the world, so that exactly the restraint of that inflation depends on both the environment and the events that will mark next year. What is expected in 2022 is that inflation will slow down and that it will reach our level at 2.2%. It should fall by 1.3% in the next periods of 2024. What we must never forget is that, in the previous period of 2020 and 2021, there has been a change in tax laws, so the profit tax rate as you know has been reduced from 12 to 10% for entrepreneurs with turnover of up to 7.5 million kuna and also income tax rates. All of this affected then and the revenue reflected in this budget in particular, and was reflected in 2021. What concerns is that some colleagues do not want to accept explanations or want to see the way in which the budget is formed and how many people and those who plan to have a lot of information must have a whole team who does so also have a certain vision of how to put together and meet all the needs of citizens, entrepreneurs and the public sector, so I am actually surprised that they do not see and see exactly what happened in the previous period, that VAT rates have also been reduced to certain products and that VAT reduction policy is not selectively a solution. That then every target group, whether it's men, women, children, etc., or old, older persons, can also look for their niche and expect that exactly in that part of the tax and VAT will be reduced. So when you look at it, then it has to be one broader framework and then you have to take care of all the possibilities and impacts on the budget. What still makes us very happy in one way, is that we will use new funding from the Multi-annual Financial Framework in this future period from 2021 to 2027, with the entire envelope, and we will include the new generation of EU funds, which will focus on financing development, strategic and reform projects. We must not forget this because this is what can very much lead to a strong momentum, and as we can see that projections are both EU and non-memory rating agencies, which do nothing of good familiarity, and we will now write to you something, but they are really doing it in quality, systematicly, assessing every effect, every impact of a global, European situation, and also in every single country. That's what the public needs to know that it's not about numbers or data, it's about objective projections. When we talk about the budget itself, we can say that this budget was very demanding for assembling because, as I said, so far along with the pandemic, with several stages and waves of pandemic, there are earthquakes that had to be further then, the executive power had to very well manage resources in order not to break the whole system. Total revenues are thus planned at a level of 164.5 billion kuna or 7%, 7.1% higher than the changes and additions of the 2021 budget, and total expenditures of 173,8 or half a billion kuna higher than the rebalancing. We have to say that the funds that, and the sources that affect the general government's budget, that they are 120 commas, 127 billion kunas and they are almost 6 billion lower, and that's exactly what it says is that we take care of this waste and the cost-restriction to achieve exactly the ultimate goal, which is that we have a high-quality growth without a rise in consumption, but a rational availability of what we have, and in the end, very, very careful planning and conservative planning of incomes where these expenditures are not allowed to waste. Therefore, precisely in this budget where VAT revenues are seen to be growing, where incomes are growing from contributions, VAT is the large and minor element that shows that they will actually go in the direction and investment, but also that the growth of personal consumption and domestic demand will continue, because what is very important means that trust is still large and that there will then be no stopping certain life processes but that they will continue to be quality. What we must take care of anyway, and I am sure that the Government and the Ministry of Finance are taking care of is precisely the use of funds in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where and where we are directly then and they are responsible as well as how the funds are directed and make sure that no euro will come if there is no coverage and if there is no progress in what we have written in the entire National Programme. When we talk about the Execution Act itself, what I would say about the expenditure itself, when you look at all the components, and that applies primarily to extra budget users, then you should say and really have a really good look at what's going on in both Croatian waters and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, HAC, HZ, etc., all those infrastructure projects that are and, I have witnessed locally, that everything that has been planned through, let's say, the Croatian Water System is really progressing extremely well, that the projects are well done and that those units of local and regional self-government, the agglomerations that have set this up well go well and I think that, in this period of 2022 and 2023, we are going to make big, big shifts. He can talk about it, and some colleagues have mentioned the amounts and investments in health, that they are huge, but when you look at how much contributions are made, how much more than 9.1 billion more has been spent in 2021 to resuscitate debts according to the majors and deficits that the hospitals had, then it must be one of the priorities that needs to be reformed, but the question is, in the light of what proportion we have pandemic, an epidemic that's more complicated in fact the whole problem, and there must be very careful and very high-quality access to everyone, to every shift that's going to happen in this segment. Let's not forget that we have an extremely high standard when we talk about medical services, and I don't think there's anyone in the interest of this standard being disrupted or reduced. We can all be personally satisfied and dissatisfied with certain functions, but given what we have in our hospital standards, I think we can be quite satisfied. As regards the implementation of the state budget, it is important to mention that the law continues to stipulate that 2 billion kunas will be paid as aid for local and regional (regional) fiscal balancing governments, that 100 million kunas are planned for functional integration of local self-government. We can also debate whether or not it makes sense, but I think the units need to see it as their options and then propose solutions. It is also planned that 3% of the total budget, i.e. the revenue achieved, is possible to borrow all municipalities, cities and counties, and are also given frameworks for borrowing on the foreign and domestic market. Also new financial guarantees for 2022. 5.2 billion kuna of which on extra budget users 2.5 billion and a guarantee stock of 300 million kuna. So, all of this is really conservatively complex and I think we can gladly support this draft budget and, of course, the HDZ Club will support these projections together with the budget plan for 2022, together with the implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76415	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear secretary, I wish you a good day, here we have a budget of nearly 174 billion and I would first say a few general notes. First, the Solidarity Fund, so the Solidarity Fund is present in the 4 billion and 608 million kuna budget, which is more than double this year. Most of all, it is a billion and 800 million kuna in the division of the Ministry of Science and Education, then 742 million kuna in the division of the Ministry of Culture and Media, and then almost as much as 741 million in the division of the Ministry of Health, etc. This should certainly be welcomed, and we should hope that we will succeed in recruiting all these funds from the Solidarity Fund in restoring all our earthquakes of damaged public purpose buildings. It is a pity, however, that the expenditure financed by the Solidarity Fund is not in a more detailed explanation because this is how many things remain unclear. For example, it is unclear at the position of administration and management in the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia it is unclear what is intended for 2 million and 8 thousand 549 kuna. Another important innovation in this budget is again to welcome the first major emergence of the recovery and resilience mechanism, and this source is present in the budget with nearly 4 billion kuna. However, more information in the explanation would be desirable here, and they are lagging behind. For example, in the Ministry of Culture and Media, we have a new activity titled Programmes to improve the availability of cultural content to people with disabilities of as much as 146 million kunas of which more than 144 million are financed from the recovery and resilience mechanism. Absolutely for all praise. It is confusing, however, that it is said in the explanation that this is a public call for funding the initiative's programme for civil society organisations. Because it is actually unusual to see a public call to civil society organisations for such an ambitiously set programme so multidimensional and so many doves, it would certainly be useful to know more about this and other ambitious programmes that are being launched in this budget by means of resistance mechanisms, mechanisms of resistance, recovery and resilience. The third of which is also more, a few colleagues spoke more about health care. I would be here because health care will speak much more in my debate of colleague Kekin, I would be here only for a moment, only on one item, and that is what appears in, on the income side of the budget on line 6.7.3. under the heading Income from HZZO, so from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance on the basis of contractual obligations, it is a standard budget item. So, not to be confused here is about the income of the state budget from HZZO. It's planned at 8.4 billion. However, on the rebalancing of this year's budget that we made in June, we had 9.2 billion in that position, and on the rebalancing from November that we brought in as many as 10.3 billion a few weeks ago, so 9.2, and 10.3, so now 8.4 and it's really hard to understand this kind of fluctuation in just 5 months. In fact, hesitant of something that should be crystal clear I think very predictable budgetary transfer of HZZ to the central budget, so very predictable if we want to just start talking about health reform at all. And so far, a few concrete observations. First unrecycled plastic waste. It is a tax or better said participation by the Republic of Croatia in financing the EU budget. Unrecycled plastic waste will be paid in almost 139 million kuna next year, and in this year the item amounted to 122 million kuna because it is paid starting this year since 2021, it is paid in accordance with the Council of Europe's decision of 0,80 euros per kilogram of unrecycled plastic waste. There is a discount here, we are forgiven for underdevelopment because our GDP per capita is less than the European average, so we are forgiven for 13 million euros or 16 million and 250 kg of unrecyclable plastic waste. And now and with that discount our contribution or punishment for non-recycling if that's what you want to watch, so our contribution has grown from 122 to 139 million because each of us, and this is seen in... By account, each of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia will on average reject 28 grams of plastic waste that will not be recycled, so the question is, and not just for the Ministry of Finance, can we do better? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the question that is not rhetorical is what has happened, what can be done or what is going to be done next year to make this item lower in that next budget? Administrative support to the University of Defence and Security. The Department of Defense's division says 24 million 38 thousand and 272 kuna in this position. The projection for 2023 is 74 million and 354 thousand, just as much for 2024. I repeat, 24 million for 2022, 74 million for 2023 and 2024. The law establishing the University of Defence and Security passed in March of this year. In the light of this law written by the government on the page, 17 says, for the implementation of this law, no additional funding is necessary in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, I repeat, no provision is necessary. It is a shame that there is not a Minister Banozic here who represented the law in the assembly and who has, on these issues, made a note of the costs that will require the establishment of this university to defend the government's position by saying that, that the establishment of the university will indeed not require any new costs for the RS budget. And perhaps our colleagues and colleagues should also be a lesson for the future when a new law comes from the government, and when it is said in an explanation that the adoption or implementation of that law will not be necessary. It has already mentioned more of you, and I will also mention that in the department of the Ministry of Finance titled Incentives for voluntary functional or real integration of JLS with a sum of 100 million kunas, therefore this new item appears and, obviously without much noise, quietly moves so much called reform of local self-government, we would like to know more about the steps they intend to take, the modes and how these 100 million kunas intend to be spent. Three seas investment fund, here we are again, is that really necessary? I'll remind you that in the 2021 plan, we first predicted 15 million kuna, and then in June we raised that to as much as 96 million, and now we're predicting 52.5 million again. The one-time defense attorney's rights from the Homeland War certainly are not the biggest and not the most important item, but it is quite unclear why. In the execution of 2020, we had 39 million kunas then planned for 2021 more than twice as much as 80 million and 767 thousand, rebalancing further to 83.5 million, and now we predict half as much as 2022. So it's completely unclear what happened in this 2021, and it would take an explanation. And finally about something that's not in this budget. We brought in NPOOs, declared targets, and set up indicators. In the budget for next year, we have activated nearly five billion kunas from the recovery and resilience mechanism, launched many valuable programmes or projects, but we have not done a single step, nor have we singled out a single kuna for what I believe is one of the most important goals of NPOO, which is raising the general mathematical and natural literacy of our students. We literally did nothing in the key element of achieving this goal, which is reaffirming the teaching profession and supporting the education of a new generation of mathematics and science teachers. This was also discussed at the the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, in the adoption of the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 and is also said in the strategy itself, it was also said in the adoption of the NPOO, it is also said in the national plan itself that this is one of the declared objectives of the NPOO, and it is deeply disappointing that not a fraction of it has recognized this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76417	Next is the debate on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club divided, the Honored Representative Bilek and Vice President Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76418	Thank you. The esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State and the chief treasurer who are now present. As the Minister of Finance has told us the effect or rather the damage done by the pandemic almost 40 billion kuna, meaning almost a quarter of our budget, then we are facing a really complex situation. All of this conditionally reduces expected GDP growth in the year '22. for this year, I'm sorry this year of 9%, and for next year 4, 4, then 3.7 and 2024. 3.1%. I am not an expert in finance, but I do understand myself in psychology, and I understand that the planned growth of GDP is quite justified, motivated, desirable, and that this is a fundamental indicator that stems from the desire and from the predicting that all of this remains regular, linearly without unpredictable and extraordinary situations. I am convinced that it is possible, however, more from the professional side than for the whole public to make a budget in which the algorithm will also be shown and unpredictable situations. What if the virus mutates so that the impact to the economy is the same as this and last year? What if 10, 20% is going to be bigger than it was this year or last year? What if the elemental disasters are such as to slow down the development of the country? I warn, I suggest that experts do such a simulation because the people must live if possible in a more dignified way, people must live as humans. And so it does not become possible to find solutions to emergency situations. Now that I've said that and said what's on my heart as I mean justifiable fear and what you've been expecting for years more trouble, I'd like to commend what's been done and I'd call it a moderately socially sensitive budget, a sufficiently moderate socially sensitive budget for the situation we're facing. From the point of view of human rights that are particularly important to us from the national minorities, mostly no recession, the defences remain more or less at the same level, slightly less the defences for gender equality, but I want to believe that this is about some European projects that have ended because otherwise it has to be fixed because other reasons should not be, the offices remain at more or less the same level of office for, the Office for Association, the Office for Gender Equality, but whether the lawyers or offices are adequately funded it is already second, another pair of sleeves that we now have no time to talk about, but we will have time in the future. The same applies to the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which in percentage, increases significantly but the funds remain according to our judgment, according to our club's judgment insufficient to achieve the operational plans that the government has adopted. We're thrifty and we know how to handle money, so for example, my national minority, my national community with this money build up to a decent level one school in Novigrad and if there will be a documentation of a kindergarten in Rijeka. It will also be able to become a building, and I hope to the end, which will become a home of an experimental dictation, that is our first language, our mother's dialect of the diction for our language, yes, it is poisonous. And also our local communities will be able to pay the rest of the cost and work and finish what it is, what it started. Our communities will also be able to draw from these funds, at least to a certain extent, and we leave the second to Istria County, the Italian State as always and somewhat to the Slovenian state. And in the end, I only want to mention one thing we have one school in the course of construction, Leonardo da Vinci school in Bujama. For that school, less funding is foreseen this year than last year, but since this year it has to be completed because there are no others, there are no funds scheduled next year, so the conclusion is that it has to be completed, I believe that it is enough and that we will have opportunities to do so, both this and this project. About the other things and the assessment of our club and how we vote will be told by my colleague Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76419	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected treasurer, dear colleagues and respected colleagues, pandemics, earthquakes, disturbances of world economic flows and everything we have entered this year have affected our everyday life. Both to the functioning of the state and to the private life of each of our fellow citizens. All this has been taken into account during this year's budget, which we have adapted through 2 rebalancings to the current state to which the most objectively could not be affected. By adapting legislation to restore from the earthquakes as soon as possible, adapting epidemiological measures to the presence of the virus, supporting the economic branches that were in the most difficult situation and with particular emphasis on exports and tourism, we have come to the point that this budget proposal is essentially based on good foundations. Politics encourages the economy, good preparation and well done tourist season in a lot of indicators received us in 2019, which was the pre-pandemic year and we are talking about that it was a good year because we had a really good economic growth. The decline in gross social product of 8.1% in 2020 is behind us, and the growth of 15 percent in the third quarter of this year is a realistic assumption that in 2022, the planned growth of 9% is based not only on tourism and personal consumption but also on investments, but also on exports. The recovery after such a fall is about the recovery of our economy and the budget proposal for the following year, which gives us the necessary realistic note. However, there is still no need to forget the present exceptional circumstances, and above all, the outbreak of the ongoing coronary virus remains unclear if it could end. This fact calls for further enhanced financing of healthcare as well as support for vulnerable citizens and businesses. It is therefore expected that the expenditure side of the budget, which for the next year weighs 173,8 billion kunas, took particular account of the items relating to recovery, strengthening competitiveness and resilience of the economy and the social protection of all layers of society. The draft budget also provides for reform and investment in new technologies related to digital and green transition, which should also be reflected in concrete indicators on the revenue side of the budget. It is foreseen in the amount of 164.5 billion kuna, which means that, with consistent implementation of the budget and government policy, we are convinced that the budget deficit of 9.3 billion kuna or 2.1% of gross social product will not be an obstacle to our further progress. Significant funds are provided for the recovery of earthquake damage, an increase of 1.08 billion kuna both from national funds and from EU funds and funds. Of course, we would all like the renovation to go faster, but we should mention here the data that means since last night, that 879 facilities have been restored and that 679 facilities are under way. Of course, additional efforts should be made to make full use of EU funds and solidarity funds to restore and build public infrastructure, educational, health and cultural facilities, build fast roads such as Zagreb-Belovar-Virovica or rebuild state roads, for example. those DC-5 from Grubišno Polje via Končanica to Daruvar, building new kindergartens, schools and dormitories. I am pleased that at the last session of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, a recent completion is announced and signing of the development agreement of the North through which a new Belarusian hospital will also be equipped, upgraded and modernised by the Daruvarske Toplice special hospital, but also by many other projects that will improve the quality of life of our citizens. I must not forget, in any way, the funding of the project of local infrastructure and rural development in areas populated by national smaller ones through the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy, as well as other funds for the implementation of operational programmes where, unfortunately, we are all witnessing and increasing prices in the construction of infrastructure and everything else where, with a certain increase in purchasing power, it is also what can be achieved that remains as was the case with this budget. It is also intended to highlight the increase in social benefits due to the application of the new Social Care Act, as well as the amendment and addition of the Household Act. For the social care system on all grounds, an increase of 836 million kuna is foreseen, an increase in pension expenditure of 744 million kuna, which guarantees namely care for pensioners. The draft budget also recognises the demographic problems Croatia is facing, and additional resources have been allocated to implement and amend the Law on maternity and parental support. Of course, during this short period of time, it is not possible to look back at just all the items of the draft budget, and in this brief review I wanted to single out a few of the most lifelike. I tried before this debate at the plenary session to get the overall impression of all my colleagues on the draft budget by following discussions at the competent working bodies. Based on the debates conducted so far on the 13 parliamentary committees on this proposal, 84 board members voted, 15 were against, and 10 abstentions. And these figures say that the government is on a good track to overcome all the difficulties arising from the above all difficult business because of the pandemic that has made it easier and maintained a stable economic and financial situation that has cost us, both the unplanned and our state budget and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, more than 40 billion kuna. It should be said that this approach also reduced the interest cost of 2015. It amounted to 12 billion kuna, and 2020. 7.5 billion kuna, which is a significant savings. The draft budget was also supported by the Commission for Fiscal Policy, and in favour of the right direction is also a credit rating that will certainly attract new investors and new investments in the Croatian economy in the coming year and in everything that drives and raises the Republic of Croatia. That is why the National Minority Representatives' Club will support this draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76420	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and RF, and a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76421	Good afternoon, everyone. Now, we have a little more time than one minute to debunk the prime minister's myths, but then there's no Prime Minister, and there's no Minister Maric, that's how it is. All right. So statistics sound great through pink glasses, the basis of HDZ's success is to fabricate statistics. We've established that they have a jokebachter, but that jokebachter is a little incomplete, so I'm going to try to explain here what I wanted to put it all in a hurry in one minute means all of a sudden. So the prime minister has said several times today that we have a huge GDP growth and that this growth is one of the biggest in Europe and when I replied that we have in 2020. The very low GDP growth that we have had, the GDP growth was only Bulgaria and Greece and that we are lagging behind GDP per capita, he replied to me if you remember, I quote, the European Commission predicts that Croatia will have the third largest growth of all members in 2021, so he said it's not true, comparatively means if we compare the European Commission has predicted that we will have one of the largest growth in 2021, so again I think we need to pay attention to the manipulation that happens here over and over again, but that's what I'm saying to the Shahhatters, so we've heard from various other HDZs, so they keep saying that we have a terrible good growth of GDP, so here I mean literally to banalise things and the word and Congo has a great growth, so Congo has probably big growth this year, Congo is not a very rich state, we all know. So what's this about? Croatia's GDP is the capital of the last 9 years. It grew the slowest of all neighbouring countries, meaning all neighbouring countries when compared our GDP per capita in Croatia in the last 9 years. The slowest growth is then 2020. There was this growth rate of 8.4%, and now it means from that depression that we fell into, of course, that we have one of the largest GDP growth in Europe, we have not certainly compared ourselves with Finland or Sweden. Slovenia's GDP dropped only 4.2% during that crown of the year, Hungary's 5%, cups 5.8%, so we had the biggest GDP decline of all the parallel countries last year and before that, the slowest GDP growth, and now from that sink, is predicted to be the fastest growth. What are we talking about? Plenkovic also says that we are in the phase of catching steps catching up policy, he loves these English expressions and mentioning the PHARE program means that Croatia was not in the PHARE programme or that context until after 2000. So we are in a phase of catching steps in such a way that neighbouring and parallel EU countries are walking where and where faster steps than we have in the last nine years. It means catching up, that we're actually relatively behind others. The second thing, the prime minister is boasting and very often eating with exports. So the increase in exports is with us, that is what others have mentioned is dominantly related to tourism. Tourism has an ever-increasing share of GDP, which is what we're actually relying on monoculture. No developed country in Europe has more than 5% of the share of tourism in GDP, so we have 20%. It is necessary to look at both external trade and payment balances, and here we are most of the time in deficits. So we should also look at this export structure, not only are we relying on tourism but we are shutting down industry or production that is more sophisticated and destroying every possibility means this progress based on highly sophisticated products that have the ability to produce high added value. So now you can't find yourself in the budget right now if you search the Brodar Institute, the Brodar Institute doesn't have one, it's the largest laboratory currently in Croatia and the scientific institute that has had the opportunity to produce this very highly sophisticated scientific personnel, and then related to that industry, the shipbuilding industry that produces largely means a highly sophisticated product that has these multiplier effects on the economy, means it connects various parts of the industry. Why tourism I think is not of course tourism is bad, but tourism does not have the possibility of these multipliering effects. Now our people often think that we're in this better position because when you say no jobs, there's no good opportunities for us to say so you can be aware of a small or medium-sized entrepreneur who catches that step every month. It always means that our people rely on their children to go out there, because they'll be able to go abroad because a lot of people went out there, but they won't be anymore because our people forget that there won't be so many highly educated people anymore, that it's actually the past. This is the result of that HDZ race towards the bottom where the quotas at the colleges are closing, it is well called whether synchronising labour markets and higher education institutions where there is no need for higher education staff anymore so that we and that option will lose. The prime minister boasts about investment and boasts about the increase in investment, but means the same thing should be said, the level of investment, their share of GDP still today means 2021 has not reached the level of 2008. So total public and private investments in 2008 were bigger than anything we call investment today, including these EU funds. So including the amount that Croatia has withdrawn from the funds in the previous period means the period from 2014 to '20. A year. I mean, when we talk about investment, then we really don't talk about big growth and progress. Then the rating means here all the time, I think some of the opposition were actually saying that we should just watch the ratings, is that's the main economic information that we need to be the most important. All right, Fitch, he's up a little, but he still has to tell us why. Because they expect us to enter the Eurozone in 2023 and then the state will really lose and formally mean all levers for autonomous, monetary and exchange policies even though we haven't had them now, but then we lose all the potential for this autonomous, monetary and exchange rate policy that we could encourage our exports. So Slovenia did it before entering the euro zone when they called it a transition tiger. So the targeted devaluation of its currency fueled that export, and we're going to lose it, and far from using it now because the kuna is highly eurosed. Salary, so I've said it more than once, so it's really scrawny, and the opposition should literally be raised to its feet when the prime minister mentions a raise in wages. So our average salary is the minimum wage in Slovenia. I guess this is the information that is sufficient, but it should be kept in mind, that Croatia has some of the lowest salaries in the EU and that our salaries have grown slightly in relation to the EU. In fact, the HDZ dares to use a statistical data that is often used, including here some colleagues and colleagues, that the share of our minimum wage is 60%. It's the share of nothing. So we have one of the lowest average salaries in Europe. And then when you have a big share, it means a big share increase, a minimum wage increase on average, that's actually funny. Croatia grew almost least between 2011 and 2021 compared to all EU countries in the lowest wage group. Employment is even worse statistical manipulation, everyone already knows that and I am glad that the opposition is also, many are talking about it. So when you move over 300,000 people out, of course you have excellent employment, but it's not just that that means HDZ manipulates employment and so it doesn't mention employment rates. So we have one of the lowest employment rates in Europe and it doesn't mention the gap between workers and employees. So we have almost a million people who are able to work, who are not employed and who are actually a huge and economic possibility or wealth when you have almost a million people who are unfulfilled, who didn't actually get the right to work is, the right to work is really a human right then you can't talk about any development. Furthermore, I must say that I certainly would not agree with any part of the opposition argument when, say, everything comes down to ratings or when it all comes down to some kind of, creating some good entrepreneurship climate, there should be a little bit of a skeptic here, so we have as to our entrepreneurship climate, mainly based on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who do not have the ability to swing means running large infrastructure projects, there is a possibility of state, but the state unfortunately gives up all the leverage, and so also those ownership in some companies. Literally, Minister Maric said today, he used the expression "cleaning", so he literally used the expression "cleaning" when someone asked him about shares in some companies, meaning owning a state in some companies, said that as a measure of adequate management of state property in the NPOO, the state decided on how he said he was cleaning up whether to sell shares of the state and in those companies where there is no majority share. I also think it should be said that neither these oppositional often complains about the share of the state or public spending in GDP are realistic. According to some national economies, Croatia is located somewhere in the middle of a scale. The share of public sector employees compared to the total number of employees in Croatia is below the European average, countries that have even more, share of consumption, public spending in GDP are the richest countries. I mean, that doesn't mean that we don't need to run some rationalizations that exist somewhere, but alone, that data itself isn't, it's not crucial and just changing that share won't be crucial to economic growth, so it's not about the growing state as it is about saying it, it's really a thing in that race at the bottom. The race to the bottom means that we now base our competitiveness solely on cheap and cheaper workforce, not technological development and research. As far as the budget is concerned, it reflects that race towards the bottom, so there is no scientific development, shipbuilding will be shut down, the ship's institute is shut down, the Ministry of Health falls means from planned 20 million to 16, from 20 billion to 16 billion, and it is quite unclear how along with this reduction of thought means health care because it is being allocated to, it is projected to reduce even health institutions owned by the state from planned 11 billion in 2021 to 10 billion in 2022, so Beros announces a health reform that will centralise health care and the state will take control of many health institutions and institutions that were under control of the county, so more money in the budget will be needed for the institutions. Furthermore, the Ministry of Defence has already mentioned many, the budget has increased by 2 billion kuna, each year we will allocate more than 2 billion kuna for those planes, but we should also say why we bought those planes, it should be quite clear that we do not need these planes to defend us, but we are buying from France the green light to enter the Schengen, and it is not certain that we will get that green light. So Croatia was warned that it stands out very little for equipment, there was this NATO plan to make up to 2%, that about 2% of GDP was set aside for defence until 2024 all, all of the countries in the EU, but that was, that was a recommendation, it should not have been held, especially in this Coronal year. Furthermore, there are various other, different other reductions and increases that are completely, which are completely irrational. Among other things, if this health problem is to be resolved, it should be much more invested in the Immunological Institute, the Immunological Institute has received some conventional means every year, but what has been announced will not happen, and this is the construction of the immune and start-up of production. The National Statistics Institute is planning reductions, and without statistics, we can't even plan development. A series of these irrational items are in the very budget that go to this historic auditism, which are completely unnecessary. Here's Austria to ban the Bleiburg memorial, but every year we plan the same means for it. Then again marking the memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes that serve for the historical revision. Then the funds for the church are increased even though about one billion kuna goes to church, etc., etc. We'll try to regulate it with the amendments. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76422	Now, on behalf of the IDS Representatives' Club, the respected representatives Emil Daus and MP Lerotic will speak to me, I think, firstly, the respected representative of the Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honorary representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. The state budget is not only a financial document in which the resources available to the state are allocated, but the budget and the political document from which government policy is visible for the year, but also the years ahead. Unfortunately, the state budget presented for 2022 represents only the continuity of the lack of real reform moves. By reading this draft budget we expected this time to be something better, something different actually, so anything that would indicate a change of direction. But this budget is almost identical to last year, of course we can talk about some billions that have emerged in expenditure, of course, but in principle it is the same. It should reportedly make some major changes, but of these changes unfortunately will be nothing, because the fact is that citizens live worse, inflation of product prices increases which directly reduces their purchasing power and living standards and there is no real answer in this budget. One reason is that government budget philosophy also comes down to cutting or increasing certain items by several percentages instead of drastically reducing tax records and facilitating investment and job creation. The second reason is that it cannot be put into a function of abandoned and abandoned state-owned property, to open up to new green, modern industries much more progressive than it seems, and to keep the young mind leaving our country at the speed of light. But for that, they need essential, not PR reform. Those reforms that create a modern society with a competitive economy, a society that has been systematically raised, educated and directed since the earliest age, and through lifelong education to a peaceful and happy age, which, like the northern developed countries, has already taught children environmental, sustainable development, personal finance, which teaches that real values are acquired through work, not theft, that the success of my neighbour, colleagues, acquaintances and my success. A society that creates strong individuals out of its ranks that will eventually become leaders in various spheres of that same society and guide it among the best, in short, society that thinks about 2041 rather than 1941. My colleagues and colleagues, the difference between the government's government's state budget in recent years is that one year the budget gaps are covered by additional borrowings, the second year further trying to patch up and funds from eu funds, but neither is the result of strategic, long-term thinking but of short-term political survival leading up to some of the next elections. And strategic thinking must be longer than one or two mandates, it must be the direction of this country in the coming decades, regardless of which government it rules the state. It's only when we get to that level of thinking, but also what we're doing, that we can say that we all made it together, and now we're miles away from it. Every year, we have a government budget of minus, or a planned lack of income from expenditure. Every year or almost every country is re-indebted, see how the companies that have been returning old duties have ended, how private persons, families who have over-indebted. He who lends money to someone always collects his debt, if he hadn't not borrowed it, would not have had an interest. And what will happen to our country one day when debt can no longer be paid back if we continue to do so? Will this little natural wealth that we have left in the Republic of Croatia be given for debt? The IDS club will submit 57 amendments to the state budget for 2022 aimed at strengthening education, health care, social care, tourism, transport infrastructure. The projects we are going to propose are not there to achieve the interests of a political party but to increase the quality of life of our citizens. I hope, perhaps a little and naive, perhaps, certainly naive, that by ruling this year, they will have more understanding in deciding on our amendments than in previous years when these amendments are in principle rejected without any good reason. And to the very end, we sincerely expected more, not more impossible because we were always real and supported everything that was in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we would do it without worry, but we expected more courage, more visions, more hopes for the years ahead, the years that would be challenging on the one hand is sure, but the years that on the other hand will be an opportunity, an opportunity to be in society of the best, although it looks a little abstract, but it can be. And I believe this country and this society can, but if it changes 180 turns. It takes a little more courage to take that step, the one who's willing to make it, I believe it's going to get a wider support because we're all going to have to be on that road together. And this isn't pathetic, I mean this. Our support will certainly win, but not today, not today because this budget is still not a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76424	Thank you. The Honorable representative Lerotic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76425	Dear colleagues and colleagues. So today, we have heard more than once in almost every introduction on behalf of clubs on the subject of debate over the state budget that we are planning and discussing the new budget for 2022. which shows us already today a planned deficit of over nine billion kuna. Nine billion kuna, which we will naturally pay by a new debt. And that's terrible, that's bad, and even scarier and worse, which is almost certainly what we can say, and that's what history teaches us when we were talking and discussing at the first next rebalancing and commenting on it that deficit has often increased, almost always. And what the ruling one likes to praise is that for three years we have had a surplus, only three years, and also in those three years the surplus we had in the state budget didn't have enough courage, enough energy, enough visions to carry out some serious and quality reforms, and precisely because of this inaction that is worse to try and make some mistakes, but precisely because of this inaction Croatian GDP is in the second quarter of 2020. The third largest decline in the EU, due to such a decline and such a bad situation in the Croatian economy, fell by more than 15%, and we received all these billions of euros at our disposal. And we always and often hear from the ruling that we have received the means to launch serious structural reforms to strengthen the Croatian economy, so that in some future crises that will certainly come and that is inevitable, for which we may not be responsible either to implement structural reforms to strengthen the Croatian economy. Structural serious, quality reforms are not in sight. We plan this budget where we will single out for healthcare over 16 billion kunas, which would even be okay if we didn't know that we were just over a few weeks, months of discussing budget rebalancing because we spent 38 billion kuna planned for this year, we haven't spent any reform, each month our debt to large-scale drugs is growing by 280 million kuna. Minister Beros announces a new reform of the centralisation of the system, and in the same case he forgot to mention that just the hospitals that are under the state generate most of the debt in Croatian health. And then when we advocate that Istrian citizens who, because of their borderline, get rid of their problem of co-financing for treatment in Isola, there's no money for it. But for collecting debts, for not solving problems, unfortunately there always is. And as colleague Daus said today we will submit 57 amendments worth 1.5 billion kuna. Most of all, it applies to the Istrian County. With some projects we're pleased with, and now I'm going to point out, let's say when we talk about Pula General Hospital, here's what we've been commenting on today, the General Hospital in Pula has been given a useful license and we often hear from the ruling ones, so we've invested in Pula General Hospital. In 2021, the most developed county in Croatia received the General Hospital. We're satisfied, we'll get the Istrian Ipsylon, win, that's what somebody paid for. It's to pay for the citizens of Istria. And we're solid because every year over a billion kuna we pay more than we get back to Istria. And we don't have a problem with that, but we also want and we point out that we are important and that Istria is also an integral part of this country, and we hope and we will be constructive, that's what the Prime Minister finally said, when he became here a year and 4 months ago, when he got his second term, to be constructive and to be respected. We were often constructive, not just us from the IDS Club, but other MPs and MPs from the opposition, rarely when our amendments were accepted for anything. We'll see if it's going to be now, we're highly doubtful, but hopefully we'll go in one of the right ways. I say, the situation is not good, in this Budget we also do not see that in some future period, i.e. in 2022, we are going towards some more serious reforms, we also have an announcement of the reform of local and regional self-government which, I don't know, do we even spend words at all, and as my colleague mentioned earlier, I am very interested in how much the municipality will connect from, because they want it and I have pointed out it several times, because if the rich municipality joins the poor, the poor will not become rich, and the two rich municipalities will certainly not. Based on what, exactly. So here we are, we're going to be constructive and we're going to point out all those problems that are bothering us, and we're going to make amendments. Last year, we were accepted by an amendment, which is to rebuild the Poreč Police Station, just to point out that it was not done either. We've seen it's in the budget and for next year, we'll see if it comes true. So much for this country's relationship to Istria.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76426	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers, the respected representatives of Hrebak and Klasic will speak, first of all, only the respected representative of Hrebak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76427	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We are facing another most important decision in one financial year, so this is the adoption of the Republic of Croatia's 2022 budget. We all know that these last two years for the Republic of Croatia have been extremely demanding, because of everything that has happened in terms of the pandemic of the coronaryvirus and all that has caused us one particular and problem in terms of our economy, but also what is even more important, about the whole issue of health security and everything we have witnessed these past two years. The last of this big crisis occurred in Croatia some 10 years ago, and our liberals were most concerned at the time that it was just a period of high tax hike, let's just remember the crisis tax, the harras, or, for example, the raise of VAT to 25%, which is at this point the second highest rate in the European Union. It is a big deal in our opinion that this time, however, we have made it a little smarter to approach the whole problem, and we have not looked at the crisis in a way that we start to re-introduce certain taxes, thus making it even more difficult for an additional economy that was already shaken enough, and I think it's just good that, despite the pandemic, instead of lifting the burden, we decided on the cycles of certain tax reforms, which Minister Maric had successfully spent in our opinion. It's a good thing that loans have been reprogrammed under more favourable conditions, balanced the deficit and that we've just improved our credit rating in the eyes of the world's financial houses in a way that we've been given by... BBB with positive future prospects in the years to come. [[You don't understand the voice.]] Given what we've seen, reading materials related to the budget, given all the circumstances that have hit us, and given what's going on in the pandemic, I think the 2022 budget is pretty real. Of course, we would all like it to be much better for us, to be much more optimistic, but at this point it is truly realistic, given everything our country and the rest of Europe and the world have come to terms with the pandemic. The revenues will be as much as we can see from the announcements, growth, we can be sure to thank the tourist season, but on the other hand we look forward to the next tourist season, we have some experience, and I think we'll still have a much better chance of repeating this tourist season if we don't improve it. It should be optimistic about export and consumption growth, which will certainly boost real GDP growth, we have seen that it is more than 9%, which is going back to one of the best years in our country's history, which is pre-crisis in 2019, and given that GDP growth is 15.8% in the third quarter, I think we can still be moderately optimistic, looking at this year's budget and everything we expect next year. If, as I said, one good tourist season, equal to or better than this year, I really think that we can be realistic about the revenues planned for this year and that simply since we can expect the same circumstances again, this one tourist season, the increase in consumption, but what is even more important, the increase in exports, because as soon as exports grow, little and imports grow, but still exports, imports, consumption are still a sign that certain production is being maintained, that certain in the economic course of finance is spinning, and I think it can be one good thing and a good optimistic announcement for next year. We as liberals, of course, support the euro area as well. It is extremely important that we stick to the 3% criteria and deficits, and I hope that precisely in this coming year, which is very important to us, which is some sort of entry criterion, that we will maintain that deficit level, so that nothing really would endanger entry into the euro area. We also welcome the announcement that we will direct public debt towards the downward path, which is today Minister Maric has made public, that is what the purpose of economic policy is, to balance finance, to try to reduce public debt, but also to try to move towards the surplus as we had in 2019 in the coming years. A lot of good things and, of course, we expect from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, of all the billions that will be at our disposal, of course, provided we're able to take that opportunity. Of course, we all know that apart from those billions that are shining, that we're waiting here in this tall house for a very difficult job, that we're going to have to meet certain criteria. We will have to implement some 70 reforms, changes, amendments to the laws that will surely change our country according to the directive from Europe, if we want this money, we will have to justify it as well, well. So, no more excuses, the money from the IPO is right here, we have to implement reforms, Europe has sent us this very framework for reform, and it will have to be done if we want to, not just talk about European money and billions of people, but if we want to do it in Croatia. HSLS will support this budget, but we also want to warn you of two more things. In fact, for several years in a row this very great deficit has been contributed and the huge debt in health, which we have already talked about, which the minister himself said is more unsustainable and that this can no longer be tolerated and we will simply have to resuscitate this unsustainable growth in health law, we will have to put it under control and hope that it will also be one of the reforms that will finally put health care into a context that we all expect, which is one, I would say, controlled expenditure, that it does not have to cover everything directly from the original incomes of our budget. All these problems and not implementing structural reforms cancel some other good moves, the ministry, and I fear that this inability to control all expenditures will not allow us to open up more strongly the space for a stronger cycle of tax reforms, which would relieve the economy, which would further activate and encourage more employment. What makes me happy in this whole story is that there are some announcements about both the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, that the Ministry of Finance will also have to contribute to further, further disbursement of entrepreneurship, because this will also be one of the criteria for obtaining funds, so we will have to invest some more in discharging Croatian entrepreneurs, so that we can get funds for further improving the economy, public service and all that the IPO foresees. We're slowly coming out of the crisis, our finances are stabilizing, and right now it's time for these expenditure reforms to be put under control, to implement all the other reforms that the IPO has also given us as a priority, so health reform and all the other reforms that we are constantly talking about, so that we can really, constantly, re-establish the assumptions of growth of the economics that we had before the pandemic, perhaps even stronger, and here, I hope that with this release of the economy we're going to start in the next, next year, because I don't think that without that economic discharge we're going to have stronger economic growth. Only by dispensing entrepreneurship, by strengthening it, by deregulation, would I say by controlling, in a way, the over-exploited system and bureaucratic apparatus that we know exists, and which I hope we will literally kill it by digitising for which we are provided with funds from the IPO, and that this way, by even stronger digitisation of the entire public service, we will put the immersive red tape under control, that this is exactly how we will be able to give the economy to breathe, to increase wages and to encourage further employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76428	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, we're going to take a break of 10 minutes, because the informers asked me to consider some of the problems they need to solve, that it takes a little time, so we're going to continue, here in 10 minutes, so at 15.55. It's 3:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.54 HOURS]] We're going as scheduled for an individual debate, so the first one will speak to the respected representative Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would sincerely like to be able to share the optimism of both your ministers and your members on this side of the assembly, but unfortunately I can't, I'm skeptical because this budget proposal is actually on pretty flimsy or glass feet. If we exclude this envisaged, the projected increase in the tax of 5.7 billion kuna on the revenue side, then we see that all of these optimistic forecasts are actually based on a stronger withdrawal of European funds where there are as many as 8.3 billion kuna planned on the revenue side. But we know that a month ago in this HS we adopted a budget rebalance where one of the more important adjustments was based on this item that showed our inefficientness in the withdrawal of funds. So every plan we've given ourselves, which we've been leading, not us opposition, but you've given yourself, we haven't been able to fulfill it. So I can't be optimistic when I see that actually this budget, that one of the basics, the main pillars on which it rests, is this growth in the withdrawal of funds regardless of what these funds are about the perspective to, this 7-year new perspective, or that is, or this is about the NPOO I don't think we're going to be able to achieve in a drawn way. And I also don't think it's right to show, to come before parliamentary representatives with information that's not true. So it's a false fact that you'll succeed in the next year in saving in the health system and what's planned to be 9 billion dollars, so at the point of the health ministry, it's 6.5 billion kuna and another 2.5 billion kuna on HZZO. It is simply something that is unreal to expect especially because, among other things, this whole budget is based on the assumption that the covid crisis is over, that in 2022. There will also be no expenditure resulting from this covid crisis not only in the health system but also in other systems in our society, that these expenditures will not be, which is difficult to expect and hard to believe. And the third reason why I don't cultivate your optimism is because there isn't really one system of structural, structural reforms that we expected at least if for nothing else, and then because of these planned health savings because we see that and so on. I don't know about health reform until next year, probably at the end, because it obviously didn't work out, neither did it. So it is clear to all that the savings and return of expenditure to HZZO and the Ministry of Health are at a pre-crisis level from 2020. simply impossible and untrue, but under the cover of those savings, there is a rise in budget expenditures across a number of other items, while obviously, as so far, problems in the health system will be solved in an ad hoc way beyond some parliamentary, parliamentary control, and that is certainly not what is good. As I have already said, that part of the savings planned to be achieved in the healthcare system is reflected in the increases in expenditure on almost every ministry except for the extremely MUP, but when you look at the expenditure side then we actually have to wonder where the man went in your budget. We boast of the larger fees, the larger aids based on the reform of the social system, and on the other hand, no one mentions that the benefits for one-time assistance in households for the cost of living have been reduced, and 2020. It will be extremely difficult, inflation comes, increased cost of life, especially food and energy, and I don't know how smart it was to project it that way. Our citizens who are damaged by the earthquake are also 2. The lack of any strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion, as well as the lack of any plan to fight upcoming inflation, simply this budget doesn't seem real to me, it doesn't seem true to me. And that's what bothers me most about this whole story. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76431	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76432	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleague Glasovac, so we have before us a document which, in terms of numbers and accounting, is correct and I would say correct. But we have a budget for 2022, that budget should show what kind of Croatia we imagine to be in 2050, but if it's very far away to at least see what kind of country it is in 2030, because if we want to be constantly at the bottom of all the scales together with Romania and Bulgaria that we are, then it's just this budget, everywhere a little bit, nobody is too resentful, but I always ask myself, it's a political document, which is, what Croatia is 2030, on which we base our development, which we want to do, where this step is related to the economy, with a better life of our fellow citizens, I don't see it in this budget. A little there, a little there, from a hollow to an empty one could be called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76433	Dear MPs, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76434	What is evident is that one of our priorities is security protection and defence of Croatia, because there are significant means to obtain multi-purpose defence aircraft. When we talk about strategic documents and what we want from Croatia and what kind of Croatia we want from 2020. In 2030, we have the National Program, the National Development Strategy. However, I am kind of impressed and when I look at the last call for social care reform now, so you have the parallel meaning of 7 laws that change you have three key national plans and these are: a plan to fight poverty and social exclusion, to strengthen people with disabilities and 3rd for a social service network. It's my impression that these plans aren't working because we've set ourselves some goals, so we'll adapt the funds to ourselves, but we're actually in a tea shop where we're waiting for some desert billions and we're quick to come up with plans so we can pull anything, and that's exactly what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76435	Thank you. The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76436	Thank you. My colleagues, you've seen two things well. I would like to make a little more detailed comment that actually this budget depends on two items: one income, one expenditure. The income item is to call it the capture of 32 billion kunas of potential income by different EU components, and the spending side is a savings of 6 and a half billion kuna in the health sector. Now I'm interested in you commenting on how you see it, and in fact no reform has been announced at all, and you're now expecting a six-and-a-half billion kuna savings in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76437	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76438	Well, one of our colleagues of yours actually, but the person we've been communicating with on these issues has said that this is a typical example of this creative accounting budget. He's right in the items, it all works. However, these very calls for health savings without real health reform are actually one signal that this is a deception of the Croatian Assembly, that these funds of those 6.5 billion kunas, even though they are actually a little bit more scattered in other items in the budget, and thus they are inflated, in fact, by the spending sides of almost all ministries where at some point when we see it actually not going to work the way we imagined it would probably bring back the "water to the mill" to those at hockey solutions and redistributions, and here we will probably experience two more rebalances from this budget. But there's important and clear images in which direction we're going, except that you've pissed off my health care system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76439	Representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76440	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said well, this budget is neither true nor real and the worst of all is that Minister Marić knows absolutely it, but he gets certain gauges you have to cut the budget deficit by 10 billion, you have to keep the budget deficit at that level, you have to find money to buy fighter planes for which, we don't need to buy weapons so we must keep them parked, etc., but you have to show that this is going to get, or how you're going to do it, you're going to show that you're going to get huge help from the European Union that you've been cutting recently because you know we're unable to pull back and help. How do you justify the fact that in this budget the planned assistance from the EU funds is 8 billion higher, while at the same time our own component of EU co-financing projects is almost at the same level as this year where we have had 8 billion less revenue from EU aid?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76441	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76442	So each minister faces the finance minister in each government to face the same demands, kept under control. It was not much simpler for us either when we entered the European Union, in the excessive deficit procedure, and it was not easy, but it was sincere. We've been showing the situation as it is, and it wasn't popular, and that's why they're losing the election, but honestly, you're not selling anything you don't have. This approach means and leads to the Prime Minister's assurance all morning that everything is beautiful, economic growth, we're super competitive, everything is phenomenal. However, according to the latest survey, 75% of citizens feel that the state is not going in the right direction. And now of all that beauty and these desert billions, are there higher wages? No, they're not. Are they bigger, is there hope in this budget for poor and socially endangered citizens here? There isn't. The only thing that increases wages in these items is the fees for overtime and something in the system of education and science that some have been elected in protests of some acquired rights, not good will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76443	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76444	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said an interesting sentence where a man went missing. So in this sense, man isn't just our patient, he's also an employee in health care. And then when you look at budgets for, say, HZZO, then you can see that there are significantly reduced resources for both health trainees and specialists. And then I asked nicely on the board of directors of HZZO Mr. Vukelic to explain to me why these funds were reduced, and then the answer was that we are solving as much as we are in our intelligence. I remind you that specializations and health interns are actually in charge all the time. So obviously neither the administration has any idea what their intelligence is, let alone to answer the question why they reduced these funds, and we know that the health traineeship problem is also lacking, and we especially need specialists at the level of primary health care. Well, obviously, there's someone who doesn't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76445	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76446	Not only did the man disappear in the health care system from this budget. He has disappeared, for example, in what the ruling coalition swears, and these are the most intelligent and demographic policies. When you look at a little items you want an office, a government office or the Ministry itself, then you will see that the funds and measures intended for that part are drastically reduced. There's no fulfillment of the promise, even though we're better off devising parental benefits. There is no fulfillment of the pre-election promise that a parent parent will be introduced throughout Croatia. There's no such thing as luck for our pensioners either, and that's actually the problem when the state's going better. The citizens are ready to tighten the belt when we're not doing well, but when the state is doing better and obviously we're doing it because we're full of ourselves when we listen to the Prime Minister's presentation all morning, then the minimum that every citizen should feel is going to be better for him, and that through this budget and in 2022, not that he won't feel it, but it's going to be even worse, because inflation is coming and it's going to be very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76447	Thank you. The next one will be a respected representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76448	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The sacred thing looks and approaches, if we were in another country, to hold a workshop or a lecture, and to see macroeconomic indicators, means a clean table for next year, the first one would have no comment, the revenues would be 164 billion kuna, expenditure 178, so that's 2.1% of the share of GDP, so in a minus, means the ratio of public debt and the total gross social product, so the nominal in current prices would be about 80%, and we would say, look, this country, this country, this country meets all the conditions for, for example, introducing the euro. Which is true. And that's how it's gonna be. And that's not bad again, but I'm just saying first. Then when you look at the second, third, fourth or fifth levels, then you can see all sorts of different things that can worry you, and we'll talk here about things that might actually worry you. So I'll do it again. A budget based on an increase in the EU component of 8.3 billion kuna, on the revenue side and on expenditure based on health system savings, of more than 6 billion kuna. So it's the only two, so to speak, the main indicator of this calculation. Is Croatia, which I don't even think of the Government, so here I think of the units of local administration and self-government, different stacks of holders, stakeholders of society, will be more successful than all these 6, 7, 8 years, and succeed, therefore, not contract but realize. That's what we'll see. And also, in all of these National Recovery Plans, multi-annual financial frameworks, there's a question of what projects are, so, which will be realized, is there for every project, first of all, a building permit, as far as I hear, for example, on the ground that doesn't really exist, but it's going to be all over again, but the zeroth that should be, whether some, in fact, analytical bases that are going to say, okay, now, let's deal with school. Are we going to do one shift course throughout Croatia or are we going to see where there is no need for it, so we will not work. So, I didn't see that document. Also in the health system. Has anyone talked about rationalizing the system, functionally connecting hospitals, I don't think anyone's spoken in the last two or three years. And then what can happen? That you're going to have a large number of potential investments, which are going to be financed from some of them, so to speak, whether it's some of the envelopes, which maybe in 2, 3, 4 years' time won't be necessary at all. That's what they're saying, there's no such thing as an over-national development strategy. Now that we are again focusing solely on this budget, as one political document, so what someone might conclude at the same time that this budget will again allow that privileged part of society, which is unfortunately a feature of the Croatian system, someone also calls it that English version of chrono-capitalism, therefore, that this privileged part of society will again benefit more than others and that an even greater division of Croatian society will occur. Here's what I see in this budget, because there's not one essential, let's say, announced reform. I'm not talking about tax reform here, I don't give a shit about tax reform, so I'm talking about macroeconomic reforms here. So, about reforming society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76449	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected MPs Vidovic-Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76450	A colleague of Hajdaš Dončić, Danko Končar, a man we can see singing Partizan songs with the lawyer of all UDBA, Anto Nobil, received from your Government for one Kuna Shipyard Trogir, and a subsidy for that transaction of 380 million kuna tax funds from Croatian citizens. Mr. Concan had no reference to shipbuilding, so this decision is contrary to the principle of good lord. The result is, of course, that Brodotrogir is in total ruin. Pulski Uljannik cost the Croatian state 6 billion kuna, and for 700 million is directly responsible for your party boss, Peja Grbin, because he publicly and secretly asked the government to secure a state guarantee when it was clear that the entire oil system had failed. In both cases, it is a matter of favouring people with communist pedigrets, to the detriment of Croatian taxpayers. Given the amounts mentioned above, the corruption of HDZ's Gabriele Žalac seems really funny. Does your party have the right to talk about corruption?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76451	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76452	My answer, of course, is yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76453	The Honorable Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76454	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Highdash. There's one quote from a movie that says like this, in this country any thing can fail except for reform. Because reform can't fail, there's no reforms, so I can't fail. So you're quite right when you mentioned this earlier, but I would still focus on health care. So the complete structure of this budget goes in the direction that these 8 billion savings, which should be made on the dissipated side, so somewhere around 6.5 billion refers to the health sector. 6.5 billion in the health sector means that the sector will kneel before the burden that awaits us next year. Covid won't stop, the drug problems won't be removed, the problems with hospitals and minuses won't go away, and that's that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76455	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76456	According to this latest information, it generates more than 220 million kuna per month, so the health system in the Republic of Croatia. As hospitals work for you, especially general and county hospitals, so that between 90 and 95% of their limit you actually spend on salaries, which means that suppliers, of medicines, special medicines and actually all suppliers, let's cut the story short, actually wait, and then it happens from the so-called 28 reforms, which exist in the Croatian health system, it happens to you that it's not really reform but rehabilitation. So, every finance minister, I don't attack him, I don't ablimate him, Mr. Maric, actually does what was possible, which is to pump two, three billion kunas and solve the current debt of the health sector to suppliers. It's not reform, it's nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76457	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76458	Comrade Hajdash Doncic, you are absolutely right when you say that we are quite unprepared for the withdrawal of European funds, because we do not really have a goal and we do not have a plan to fertilise and contribute to social, economic and any other development. You mentioned a good education system. We've already had such infrastructure booms in Croatia, where we've undoubtedly built schools in Dalmatian Zagora, which are staring empty today. It is not a problem to establish a standard in Croatia that every school can conduct full-time teaching, but in parallel with that we need to know how to withdraw and the means to ensure that these schools are not empty, on the other hand, that there is someone working in these schools, that children in these schools have meals and that we ensure the quality of education. However, in this budget, we have the cracked European funds for infrastructure funds, and on the other hand we are reducing the standard of students, reducing funds for the implementation of curricula reform, for the education of teachers and teachers, for co-financing of interest on housing loans for teachers and teachers, so there is this one illogicality and there you are absolutely right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76459	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76460	So one of the essential problems, therefore, of Croatia, is your planning problem. And now that you've touched just like school, we've had these so-called handball championship halls, you know how it ended, but look, we have a phenomenon, I don't know if anyone's thinking about it. Come on, let's say kindergarten, what's okay, but what are we doing? At the same time we are opening a competition for probably 150 kindergartens in Croatia, and you don't even have a construction sector that can do this to you, you don't have any other capacities that can do it. These neighbors of ours, the Slovenians, did it a lot smarter. They're even, let's say, let's not exactly parallel, but the parallel, even highways when they were building, didn't build everything on a ho-hand, but they let a little longer deadline so they saved the construction industry, and personally, so it's always better for you to have those software solutions, it's always better to have better scholarships and better, so to say, certain receipts for the citizens, rather than just build infrastructure. Because the multiplier in infrastructure, in construction, in road construction is very low. That's what's multiplying, so you see how total the effect is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76461	And respected representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76462	Dear colleague. As former Minister of Government, give me an explanation. We have a double problem here. The first problem is where we figure out a reduction in health expenditure, so we're short 6.4 billion. Another problem is that we have also defined an increase in income from EU funds, so even if we reduce these revenues from EU funds to some real level, and the question is what is the real level, probably 8 billion less than it is shown, we still have a problem that we do not have enough recorded expenditure in health. What is your assessment, how soon will the budget change in the next rebalancing, which we will experience very quickly?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76463	The Honorable Representative, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76464	The key problem of this country is that the prime minister tells you today that the two strategic goals of Croatia are the introduction of the euro and entry into Schengen. These are not the strategic goals of Croatia, it is the same, it should be on our way. And that's why it's the budget. It will satisfy all the parameters that I said at the beginning, that we can introduce the euro, but will not allow for a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's your whole budget, so I'm fucking on the one who says Croatia's fundamental goal is to join the European Union or introduce the euro. What's the point? It's something that needs to help us become better company, here's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76465	Now they'll be speaking to the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76466	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is the seventh budget, which was proposed by the government of Mr Plenkovic, and when you look back, there is something that could be a common denominator of all these budgets, and what would be picturesque is, hold the water until the masters leave. That means we're dealing with the current situation, because we don't have some serious step, and we don't have some serious story that we want, not 2050, because it's very far from us, but 2030, but what we are, here we are, and that's what I was saying on behalf of the club. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about two challenges, that's so nice, politely said. One challenge facing this government is the recovery of earthquakes, and another is the National Resilience and Recovery Programme and how to use that money. Well, if we're showing this first challenge, we're not writing well. So, a year ago, or 12 months ago, in the budget of the Republic of Croatia we are from the Solidarity Fund, 5.1 billion kuna was paid, with a basic intention, or the idea of spending it on rebuilding from the earthquakes of damaged public buildings. According to the data we have, 43.7 million kuna or less than 1% has been spent so far. If we're gonna do this model, we've got six months left. In six months, someone will ask Croatia what you haven't spent, what you haven't agreed on, what you have done, and it will be interesting to see what the answer will be and how we will be ashamed then. If by this model we're going to withdraw NPO-related funds, we're not in a good place. We don't feel good about it. This is one of the last chances to catch that train and catch the last car for a normal, decent, courteous country we just need to know what kind of country we want to be, whether we want to be there all the time at the bottom of all the ladders together with Bulgaria and Romania, or if we want to take some step. We don't see a step here. When you enter certain items that are so I expected that maybe the item that is related to infrastructure development to be some kind of driver, some kind of development driver, and you look at the railways, so look at what's going on here because investment in the railway is one serious investment at European Union level, and unfortunately we don't see that something is happening. But my example is always, you know, always in the budget, I look at some of the things that have been discussed and happening in the Parliament. Last week, we discussed certain laws and mentioned the Danube - Sava channel. Kanal Dunav – Sava is not only a water channel, but if you want the restoration and the recovery of Slavonia, then it is a channel that could get both irrigation and other things, green politics all great. You enter the budget, you will enter the items of the ministry that is responsible for it then you see that for this year that the Ministry of Channel Danube – Sava, who I first met in the literature to mention in 1893 when it was a wish too with that channel then someone was smarter and knew what and then the item of this year is 4 million kuna for that channel. With that 4 million kuna, you don't know what you're about to start. And 100 thousand kunas are planned for next year. So, just to keep the item alive. If we really have an idea of investing in some infrastructure, if we really have an idea of a step forward, then let's say we could see it in one of those individual items, but unfortunately we don't have that idea. And here's to the end, an amendment that I'm going to propose with a special lizard, and I know it's going to be rejected, and then what you're going to refuse me is not going to get me excited, but I don't know how you're going to explain it to our prime minister. Our prime minister when he was recently in Glasgow then promised to plant no more, no less than a million trees in the next nine years. That means 111 thousand 111 trees a year. And now I'm going to go into the budget to see if it's in the Ministry of Sustainable Development, if it's in the Ministry of Agriculture. Unfortunately, that's not there. So I will propose with a number of amendments that we, as the Center and Glass Club, will propose, propose that the amendment be made to allow 111 thousand 111 trees to be planted in the following year, so when you refuse, you will have to explain to Prime Minister Plenkovic why.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76467	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76468	Thank you. My colleagues, Mrak Taritaš, you have shown a very funny and intelligent way through this tree planting story one important feature of HDZ's authority, which is that on the one hand you reject the smooth opposition amendments. However, when it comes to presenting it as its own political initiative, then the same thing the opposition MPs have proposed now are proposing and adopting as something of their own. How do you comment? Do you think that this is actually a difficult complex of less value and an indication that HDZ always puts itself first in the interests of the state, rather than the interests of its own citizens, and even before the interests of its own policy that it sometimes promotes this pompously?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76469	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76470	Thank you very much. Our prime minister's custom is that when he goes out of Croatia and has a chance somewhere to speak in his excellent English, which is the fact that he is really excellent English, barata with excellent English, easily promises, giving a picture of another country and is equally very easily promised by those millions of trees. It would be much better if we hadn't cut the trees by now, so you could promise a little less because we've cut a lot of forests so far, and now you know that by 2030 you would have planted a million trees somehow it seems to me that we should share it by age. But it's actually that one picture, one picture's out there, the other one's there. But it would be much easier for us if the senior HDZ officials didn't think of themselves first, then the party, and then for the citizens of Croatia or Croatia, which remains and somehow we learned to stay very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76471	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76472	Dear MPs today, we have heard in the initial presentation of the prime minister that this is a reasonable budget, that it will allow our economy to be more competitive, that it will allow for the better work of our businessmen. Well, we had a discussion the other day on both the Committee and here in the assembly about our economic zones, we talked about it, we turned our attention to what the problems were. As much as possible, a representative from the majority of HDZ has drawn attention to what problems are in the economic zone and what should be done. Did you manage to find items in this budget that would enable all of this together and that would actually be and that would tell us that what we were planning to draw attention to is not right that we would be able to correct it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76473	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76474	Thank you very much. So I'm one of those people who reads and I'm really a nerd in my life and I'm trying to read, and obviously I'm still all together and naive and then somehow let's go see, I went to a little bit of looking at related items about the development of demographics, because we can talk anything. But without people who will work, unfortunately we will be an old country, maybe that's how we should set ourselves up and build instead of tourism up the coast of the nursing home, but that's another story. So then I went to see if it was at the Ministry of Economy and on some others if we were really becoming a country that could be acceptable to some side of the workforce, so let's see here. On the items of the Ministry of Economy, I tried to find some items that allow entrepreneurship to develop, so let's see if it's not entrepreneurship, develop some kind of infrastructure. It is no accident that I gave the unfortunate Danube - Sava channel for example. Unfortunately, no matter how much I asked you for what you asked me, I couldn't find it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76475	Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76476	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and fellow MPs. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we have again had the opportunity to hear from the mouth of the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic that there is a budget before us that shows both our financial stability and our proactiveity and opens up a huge space for growth and new steps in our country's life. The only thing he hasn't answered since he's already talked about is the xy-t times why we insist in all the research and movement of the economy and everything else that makes the quality and structure of a single economic system we are persistent in the rank of Romania and Bulgaria and we can't finally catch a step with Slovenia at least a little bit. The answer would probably be we're past the crown, we've been through an earthquake but how many opportunities do we have to fix in national as well as in the world's media reportedly that the whole world has passed the crown. I have this budget as always until now when it is done by Minister Zdravko Marić accountingly made absolutely correct. It's hard to find something in numbers right now and say that it's done absolutely wrong. But what is a problem is that he is probably not made according to those wishes that every minister of finance and we had them along with Zdravko Marić still of some quality, but made apparently by someone's political dictatorship, a dictatorship that was important in this budget to meet the entry into the euro zone, to find funds for planes that are very important to us, to find the means to settle some more things around Schengen, and that we can say that Croatia is stable and is moving forward. But what's the problem with this budget is that, apart from meeting those political goals that Zdravko Marić obviously knows how to meet because we were close to entering the euro area, because we raised credit ratings because we are close to Schengen because we will be hunting for the planes. In addition, in addition to any preparation for the settlement of someone's European career, it is difficult for us to find in this budget what is the strategy and what is the vision of the Republic of Croatia for the next period in our country's life. Because it's simply not visible what reforms it is, and they're hiding in these numbers, we're going to be doing some reform. On the one hand, we swear to ourselves that our expenditures will not grow, and no Croatian government has achieved so far. On the other hand, we swear to ourselves that we will reduce the expenditure on health care and cut into health care because under a) we probably think that the covid pandemic has ended, on the other hand, the Staff is telling something else. Under b) we forgot what debts and problems we have in the Croatian health system. And that optimism is based mostly on EU funds where we managed to get data today that even for the earthquake, we have not withdrawn more than a few changes to what the EU has approved. And if we are already talking about European funds and what ended up being done by OLAF and the European Public Prosecutor's Office, so on what is happening now, we base this income optimism. And therefore, we would prefer to have heard what Minister Maric said today at that closed session of the board that will change this in Croatian health care. We would prefer to hear whether we will finally have the courage to change tax policies in the direction that it will not only go on the hands of the rich, but rather go on the hands of the working people and those who need it because for some reason Croatia is running away from taxing the rich. And I'd also like to see as mayor how we're thinking of functionally bringing together units of local and regional self-government and who, because of 100 million kuna, is going to join some shy rewards without a clear policy, without clear specifics, even without some clear national policy procedures towards local or regional self-government units. Because so long as we have a 2 billion kuna fiscal balance fund, it's hard to expect it to come to its own wishes of functional mergers. As the Mayor of Koprivnica, who is in the category of the most developed cities in the Republic of Croatia, I can say that this background of fiscal balancing is not at the end of the day but is only at the end of the day the fund of injustice that has turned into a calming and artificial maintenance of certain municipalities, cities and counties on life or artificial fines not to break those 20% of wages for red tape from their regular original incomes. And in the end, as the parliamentary representative of the second constituency, I will only add that I hope that there will be room in this budget for the quick road to Koprivnica and for the fast road to Bjelovar, because the end that so much creates as the entire north, which so brings to the state budget, has earned something very, very long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76477	You have one replica of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76478	Col. Jaksic, therefore, it is quite clear that we have through the morning, and already several days of boasting with numbers, GDP growth compared to last year, and we know what the economic situation was last year. But what's interesting is not about what we lost, what we lose when we look at people who have left Croatia, how it will affect our development, our future budgets, our pension system, and how much we really lose because of this corruption that isn't only happening if we look at our state budget, our local budgets, but is now happening with the funds that we get from the EU. So we are currently having an affair because of the funds, i.e. the tampering with EU funds, and this is being investigated by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The question is, what happens now to the attorney general? How much this corruption affects this budget as well as our future budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76479	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76480	So what has shown some independent analyses that 10% of these large investments usually evaporate through corruption, so today 25 billion and 42 billion kuna are mentioned, so if it's 10% accurate, then we can only imagine how much money it's going to be, and how real it's going to be, because 2 and a half billion kunas are something where you make a fast road to Koprivnica, both to Bjelovar and to Virovitica, and I don't think citizens have that clear picture. And as for the budget itself and budget management, we must admit that, apart from what we should have done to join the European Union, we have never had enough courage, enough strength to launch structural reforms, to reduce the bureaucracy we have in this country, to lead a more consistent policy, to put our faith back into Croatian institutions, and then we would not have this debate why young people are leaving us. We haven't even used the coronary crisis to make more significant changes in our industrial, agricultural and in-house policies that are necessary for an economic system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76481	The following will be spoken by respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76482	Dear Vice President, I don't know how to start this debate on the state budget for 2022, 2023, because this blackness we've been hearing since 9:30 this morning simply stands up to some standard and it's hard to find that we live in the same country after such information that has been brought here by our colleagues from the opposition. You just can't. He's always pushing you. There were even suggestions from countries where we should be, we heard we had a large range from Congo to Switzerland. Everyone wanted that country more than they wanted the country they lived in. So I don't know what they're doing in this country, who are they representing here? If none of them could find a positive moment to say here I think this is good, so at least one item to say here's okay, so I'll say 100 negative others. Not one. Well, then you look at numbers, and in order, they're more or less positive. You want macroeconomics, you want everything we have in that same budget, and now you imagine what it would be if there weren't such numbers, to be the figures we had from 2011 to 2015 when you were taking care of this country. They were the ones who assured us that it was great. One of our colleagues told us that the fall was a great thing and that it could be growth, and he assured us that we had to believe it. When the salaries fell, when my colleague Glasovac took such a turn of feathers off teachers and teachers and their salaries and rights, material rights were great. We hear that in their time when their average salary of 4 years increased by 159 kuna that it was a much better level of Switzerland compared to these thousand 590 kuna in these few years and we have to deal with it and that's what they offer. They offer this people blackness, pessimism, and themselves to choose to spend it on them. We say all the time that it's not good, that already on several election cycles they've robbed Bosnia and they're going in the same direction again, that nothing they can see well in this budget. Perfection, we never said he was perfect, nor do we live in such times. It shows experience these two years, but also that time before this government knows where it's going, that we're trying to achieve our goals to the maximum. And they know that there's nothing on that policy that they can offer, that they can't offer anything other than ink and everybody wrap it up and say here's the light at the end of the tunnel like this. And I'm really looking at what we did wrong that if GDP grew as much as we say, they say it sucks, so everyone would. In a year you catch up on what you lost, they say it's better when we do it in four years when they were then it's a great achievement and you need to be replaced because you're incompetent. You're trying to suggest that what we're doing makes sense and that we're trying to maintain the standard of citizens, and raise wages, and index pensions, and increase social rights all within certain activities and possibilities of budgets, they say there's nothing. Did you hear that one word that's been going through here all morning that the budget is not true? Imagine the head of a municipality or mayor, the mayor of a town who gives the council his budget and tells them it's a lie. What we have seen progress in relation to the discussions of all of the so far that three words are lost social, developmental and transparent we do not have today. I've been listening very carefully for nine hours, and now that we put it in this debate that the citizens are watching, we're really wondering if we've achieved all the numbers and all the goals that we're going towards and we've told us what's important we have to fight here with these lies or stories. Imagine this construction today from Moste's statistical office if there was no corruption they'd have such a fleet of Ruffalos that they might be attacking someone. Imagine that construction where it might indicate it? In this office alone, the Mosta cannot support anything but its fiction and desire to bring down this government that daily shows that it can achieve any set goal and there is a difference between us and them. So much irresponsibility that everything can be black, blacker that it can't be worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76483	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. The first is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76484	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, you have been in politics and in this House for a long time, so you know for sure how many MPs there were from the 2nd constituency in the previous term and what they did for their ends. Nothing. And now it happens that the MPs of this House in this term expect it to be right but that it will be done very much in that 2nd election, and 3rd, and in Istria I don't know which constituency it is, so let's go and see what results this government has.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76485	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76486	Thank you, colleague Peric. I understand the need for each of us to fight for his electoral unit, for his place from which he comes and that opposition will resolve through amendments of course. We're trying to solve through a budget that we're going to vote on. They'll be against that budget because he's not interested in them at first, and the amendment's talking about getting a reason why he shouldn't be for it. And we understand that. How convincing that is, the citizens said in the fifth month of this year in local elections and made it clear that they understand those who know how to take care of their local self-government. And what we say, we also care about these local self-governments. We have this balancing fund and we haven't given anyone less than they have, and many have much more than they've ever had. And they have the basis and opportunity to develop according to their thinking and, of course, programmes that will support them in particular tomorrow in the funds that will come from the EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76487	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76488	Dear Boris, you have been in politics for a long time, and you probably know how to read from the budget what someone wants to say. So when you reduce your health rate by 30%, then you send a de facto clear message. Either more than 50% of people will need less health care, which is difficult to expect, or you are looking for a change from a minister who will not be able to meet the goals set, or you will privatise part of the health system. I don't see a fourth solution, so I'm asking you which of these three solutions did you read from the health reduction budget by 30%?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76489	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76490	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You're from Zagreb, aren't you? I hope so. Is it? Here I would like to hear such discussions on the budget of the city of Zagreb. If you have a representative of yours, I don't know. You don't. [[I don't have one.]] Maybe you did, so now you don't. All right. So when they lift the parent’s measure, they say here’s a certain amendment will appear, so they’ll say let the state do it or let someone else do it. And that's where we justify our own abilities, right? I say we have to, or we said a long time ago that we need to get into health reform and that's something we're going to deal with next year, for sure. How long will that be? How much further this pandemic will get us into situations that we need more or less from the budget to solve certain I don't know. I don't know right now. And each budget is a certain vision in 2022 now as have been visions so far. And when we saw something wasn't going well, it was getting better. I won't say this will end, but there are assumptions that it can. And what matters to me, what we write to accomplish, and it will show this year for 2021. A year, you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76491	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our colleague, Boric, is constantly hearing about the messages that are being sent. I think this draft budget sends clear political messages. Keeping expenditure under control, reducing the deficit of the state budget, reducing the share of external debt in percentage of GDP. Why is that? Of course, both Croatia and Europe faced this pandemic situation in that economic sense by having an expansional monetary policy. You can do that for a while, otherwise you can generate inflation. She's already shown herself in one event. And what's the answer to that? Have one responsible fiscal policy. Just with these messages that this draft budget is sending. And that's why I think that in this respect we should focus more on these very messages being sent by this draft budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76493	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76494	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, that's why I may have discussed it in a way, I didn't want to do it this way, but just when you've been listening to all this from morning, it's a little bit of you, the fact that foreign people, strangers who judge us, believe us more than we trust ourselves here. So let's remember some times when the credit rating in the trash was a great thing, when one finance minister said every interest was good and we'd pay it. I've heard it here. When you fight for less interest and people trust you, they say it's bad. We're this ink that will suggest that you shouldn't believe even though you're doing your numbers. You're achieving your goals, your projects, your programs, and we're moving on. But no, always bad, black, nothing. That's the difference. We are the ones who bear responsibility and it is up to us to show that this budget will also be achieved as we have drawn and written.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76495	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76496	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, the government's fiscal policy is back several years more than good despite the covid crisis, two strong earthquakes. For entry into the euro zone, many years back are seen as we are by deficit, public debt and another set of parameters. And a few days ago, we were able to testify with Fitch's Best Credit Rating Report so far. How much this good credit rating will help us to prepare for membership in the euro zone and how much the introduction of the euro will contribute to the resilience of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76497	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76498	Thank you very much, dear colleague. How much will it help us? As much as we can help ourselves and accomplish what we as responsible people in power know and can do. I remember the time after the election when an opposition colleague said when I saw what was behind this government two earthquakes, the pandemic in progress was best placed in his ear, sat under a tree and watched Andrej Plenkovic. I wouldn't be in his skin! Today, you and those men are giving us a lesson that we should have done as generals after the battle, every time. And that's how we fight the battles here to try to achieve all of the government's measures and decisions that suggest we have no problems and obstacles to stopping it ourselves, and citizens probably see it. Someone might be fine, someone's not. But we certainly differ in responsibility and thinking about what our country is today and how much this credit rating contributes to the public finances of our country. It sucks to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76499	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76500	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, fellow Boric, as you said today, we have been listening to the opposition all along that this budget is not true, that it is not expected that we will be able to realise these revenues. In particular, this refers to an increase in value added tax which plans to increase revenues on exports of services. It refers to tourism, investment, increased personal consumption. Like they said, we planned it like the crowns were going to disappear. It seemed to me that we forgot that we had the crown and we had in this 2021 and in the recent budget rebalancing exactly that item thanks to the state of tourism of personal consumption, we increased investments by over two and a half billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76501	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76502	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So here's my debate going in the direction of trying to get into a debate in some normal way, because this blackness we've been listening to all morning there's nothing in these numbers that they're writing here. And these are some random desires to be so maybe. They know that this government has set great goals as an opposition and that this government is achieving its goals because it has set itself before them. What's the matter with them? This minister's a mess. They wanted to replace him a few days ago, because they know he knows and he can, and if I have to listen to someone as a citizen and a politician about what he knows and can do through the state budget or through public finances, then I would rather listen to Zdravko Maric than Nikola Grmoj always. There is no dispute, and I believe many citizens will too. And these personal situations where they try to be negative for everything we can understand. The frustration of the opposition is long-term.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76503	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76504	Dear colleague Boric, you first need to make a deal with yourself. The honor of talking about frustrations in opposition, the hour you talk about how some have a finger in their ears and enjoy being in opposition, the same thing you think about us MOST representatives because I don't even need to listen to what you're saying. And when you say that you're not happy to listen to me, that you prefer to listen to Maric, I know that the truth is not pleasant to listen to. Even Vice President Reiner couldn't listen yesterday when I was speaking here from the pay phone, so he took my word. So you're not comfortable listening to the truth, but I'm going to tell it. And when my colleague Troscott talked about planes, many were unhappy because Croatia bought planes. I'm not. But if it hadn't been for that corruption of yours, we could've had planes and health care and reconstruction in Banovina, we could've had a lot of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76505	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76506	Thank you very much, comrade Grmoy. I look at you and listen to what you're doing, and it's your job to see how someone's gonna see it, to look at it in their own way. But I know you were part of the government, I know how you worked, I know there's nothing wrong with you, but you won't say it, of course. And as local leaders and your corruption affairs where you had tariffs with your ministers and the judiciary and everything else that marked you, which you yourself said you would investigate. I guess you did your research and said it was nothing, etc. We didn't let ourselves do that. But the fact that you're always talking about having some statistical office that falsely pronounces certain figures that have nothing to do with anything is simply going to be rated by the citizens in three years. By then you'll be trying, but this direction that you've taken especially with these new moves will certainly mark you in that time, and I don't know if it will end exactly as you expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76507	Thank you. You've brought up your colleague Grumo's breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76508	How many injuries do I have?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76509	It doesn't matter how many of them you have. You if you think he's hurt the Rules of Procedure you'll tell.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76510	No, then I'll say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76511	So you're withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Okay. Thank you. She will now speak to the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76512	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have said a great deal about the truthfulness of the budget, i.e. the untrueness of the budget. I think Minister Maric is the only person who will agree to this, he will not say it out loud, but he will agree that the budget is neither real nor true, and here are the figures. Because we haven't heard a single number from Mr. Boric. I even doubt that he even knows what the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022 is planned but it does not matter. So the first budget for 2021 when we brought it in 12 months of income was 6 billion less than the last rebalancing. So this one we now have at 11 months. The expenditures were 16 billion lower than in the last rebalancing. And the budget deficit was 9 billion less than in the last rebalancing. This is how state budgets are being done in the finance ministry under the leadership of Minister Maric and the government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic. So the 2022 budget is not real, but we're used to it. So the figures shown in the budget for 2021. They have nothing to do with the figures shown in this last rebalancing, and we can't expect it to actually change in this budget for 2022, so I don't know what we're wondering all the time about the inreality of the budget. So 164 and a half billion kuna revenues, i.e. the growth in budget revenues of 10.8 billion kuna compared to the last rebalancing, which is kind of the closest let's just tell the real assessment, because that's where Minister Maric must have quoted real spending and how much longer it needs to endure. On the other hand, the government forecasts expenditures at almost the same level as in 2021, i.e. for half a billion kunas of higher expenditure for next year, and this would in theory mean that in a year, spectacular reforms will be carried out mainly in health reform, a spectacle. What is not clear to me is that it is predicted in the figures of the budget as if the covida were gone, as if it were gone at all because we are reducing the health budget by 6.4 billion kuna and in your explanation you are writing in that written explanation on several pages that the greatest risk in budget projections is just because you do not know what is going to happen to Covid. Well, as one of my colleagues said to Boric, I think that Grumoja let's make a deal with each other. Well, you can't write in one part of the budget one thing that there's the biggest risk of assessing how much budget we're going to have because of Covid, and in numbers we're 100% sure Covid doesn't have and not only that, but it's going to be a spectacle at the Ministry of Health from the minister who said a year ago that the reform was on the table of Andrej Plenkovic but that was not to be taken out before the local elections were over. Let's make a deal. In any case, given this level of optimism in budget planning, the government assumes that Covid will not be. So there's no uncertainty, everything's gonna be great. The European Union funds will be withdrawn at an amount of 8 billion more than we are in this year, which means that we should plan those funds on the spending side as well, because we are likely to make some projects happen to them. And how are we going to get that 8 billion on the spending side at all, so let's write it in health care. So what will a man do? What should Minister Maric do? Where can he write? He can only wipe out fine health care without reform, without paying off debts to wholesales and pharmacists, without reducing waiting lists, without revisions, therapy or evaluation of therapy, without anything but saving 6.4 billion kuna in health care. Or you won't, and you had to go somewhere. Well, it's not an easy job for you, Minister, so I appreciate you, because you support, you sign what that team tells you to believe, and we know you, and I, all here present and the public that this minister himself doesn't believe what he signed. In any case, health care can always be covered with a crown, because the crowns will be and we all know that here. As Minister Maric will be angry with Beros and there will be little raised budget for health care, he will raise more expenditure and "eat a donkey wolf", the people will forget and pay of course, pay for the trouble of Minister Beros, pay for this deception unfortunately, and Minister Maric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76513	The next one will be spoke by a respected representative, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76514	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In reply to the replica today, Prime Minister Plenkovic quoted me as saying: "When it comes to reforming the health system, Minister Beros has the task of ensuring the self-sufficiency of the public health budget, the means available to cover the costs of effective care for citizens' health, which means availability, quality, and optimal use of limited resources, and transparency in spending resources and uniformity of health care standards." What does that mean for all of us? We'll cover how long the filling is. What does this mean for our citizens and the health system according to the items in the budget? And when does the government intend to tell our citizens and health employees what's really waiting for us all? Minister Maric says here I saw in the media the key to success and sustainability is on the spending side. And what total income and expenditure are financed from all sources of funding for the Ministry of Health? The old plan for 2021 was 20.1 billion kuna. In rebalancing recently 22.4 billion kunas. However, the 2022 plan is only 16 billion kuna. So the difference is 6.38 billion kuna. Projections for 2023 and 2024 even smaller 13.93 and 92 billion kuna, respectively. With the recent rebalance of the HZZO budget by 2021, total revenues have increased from €31.1 billion to €32.2 billion and expenditures from €30.9 billion to €32.18 billion. But by 2022, revenues have been reduced to 30.1 billion kuna and expenditures to 29.75 billion kuna, meaning even less than before the 2021 rebalancing. And then we have a reduction in the HZZO transfer of 2.99 billion kuna, and then we have a reduction in primary health care funds from 4.28 billion kuna to 4.15, and a reduction in hospital health care from 11.8 to 10.3 billion kuna. Limits remain unreal and inadequate, so medications are reduced to prescriptions, and orthopaedic devices and aids are reduced, etc. The growth of funds for specialist and consular protection, for outpatient offices, polyclinics and health homes, explain the pandemic Covid 19 and the item remained health care due to the purchase of vaccines for the next 3 years, but this is not sufficient in view of the costs so far. For criticism, a reduction in the planned funding of the health care workers' traineeship is also foreseen, while implementation for 2020 was 6.4 million kuna and 2021. Three and a half million kuna. I would like to remind you that the traineeship problem has not been resolved yet, and we will very much insist on this and on several other items related to Covid for the implementation of vaccinations, psychological support for health care professionals, and I have personally submitted several amendments on behalf of the club. I am also not responsible for why the specialization funds from 2 and a half million kuna are significantly reduced to only 276,000 kuna. We're missing primary pediatricians 50 teams, family doctors. I remind you that colleagues are extremely administratively burdened, but 750 are missing. The doctor of family medicine is over 60 years old, 170 is over 65 years old. When will young colleagues complete specializations and do we rely only on the IPO regarding funds? The EU's health ministry sub-project plans for 2022 billion kuna. Of which, for specialist medical training, only 25.6 million kuna. To improve access to primary health care, only two million kunas. The funds are being reduced to 3605 citizens' security and healthcare rights, funds for preventive programmes are being reduced, implementation of the project "Living healthy" from 12.9 million kuna to only 4.1 million kuna. Immunological institute down from 65.2 million to 21, for 21 million kuna, means 44 million kuna. Is that the revitalization of the Immunological Institute? So the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine is reducing from 209.4 million kuna to 192.4 million kuna. So this health budget is we're afraid not only unreal but it's backward and unsustainable. The needs of the healthcare system in the next period will be even greater, not less. No reform of the health system has been initiated, nor is it certain that hospitals will not create new debts in 2022. There is also a problem of the pandemic covida-19 which further increases the costs of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76515	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76516	Dear MPs, here's to remind everyone here present. You're actually a doctor who's still busy at the hospital in Čakovec and you know the situation at the hospital. And referring to the presentation of the prime minister who today said that in health care all the costs will be covered and that the hospital will be able to function normally I would ask you for information since I have been troublesome with the work of a special hospital and the financing of a special hospital as is the situation with you in your hospital looking at the basic limits. If we take only the basic limits on whether your hospital can function, whether it can pay all debts or I have a shortfall, or it lacks money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76517	The Honored Representative
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76518	Like most hospitals in our public health and our hospital piles up. So now we're only somewhere a few months ago is a little bit of an increased elite. Now about 13 and a half million kuna for normal business would give us about three or three and a half million kuna when there is no recovery, that is, given the covid. However, the problem is that we have spoken very many times, we have repeatedly, I have personally pointed out the problem is that the insufficient prices of services, so the work of health care professionals is underrated. The prices of DTP procedures should be increased, the DTS group should be increased. The price of materials and medicines has increased, and in fact what we have at our disposal remains the same, so given this item of reduction of financial resources for the hospital system I am honestly afraid that we will all survive together at all because most hospitals are actually spending their money on wages, and for this the rest is insufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76519	Thank you. The Honorable Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, you're right when you say that the problem is in expenditures. Minister Maric also approves such a thesis because it is clear to him that in the last two years, revenues have increased only $12 billion and expenditures are somewhere around $33 billion. This resulted in a cumulative deficit in 2 years over 50 billion kuna. Thus, of course 58 billion have grown public debt in these two years. So Ketch is on the bulky side of the budget. But where's the problem? The problem is that a colleague, or Minister Maric, did not have the strength to convince his fellow ministers that each of them must find a few places to save, not just to hit the health sector. Because it's certain that this approach will result in a very recent rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76521	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76522	Yeah, I totally agree with what you're saying. We will testify to the rebalancing as you say very quickly and not just once. You're right about this, that we should take a little, actually, in every ministry. Because the health system needs to provide its services. So we in hospitals want to treat our patients and none of us doctors are thinking at some point and now I have so much and so much, what two-thirds of the month we're going to have funded, after we don't care. Therefore, it must be taken into account by the responsible prime minister if he is responsible, i.e. the entire government and the ministry. And that's why I deliberately quoted what the Prime Minister was saying. He has all made himself available, quality of health care, health care standards. But cover yourself as much as we have, and then let us and our citizens know how you intend to provide them with quality health care without proper reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76523	Now they're going to speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76524	Thank you. So, colleagues and colleagues, Boric spoke about some kind of statistical office of MOST, although the 2016 European Parliament's research is about what the costs of corruption in Croatia are, so also according to this survey, the costs of corruption are 60 billion kuna per year. But that's, that's right, that's right. The European Parliament's research is 15 Peljeka Bridges a year, and that was before Andrej Plenkovic occupied all the institutions before he destroyed the DORH completely and sent people to me, you know what the new HDZ oath is? That's how DORH helped me! So that's right. It's a new oath and now you're in one big doubt on the eve of this vote Friday. Will you be since the entire public saw that the state's chief attorney was lurking here in the House on my questions about whether Plenkovic would replace her and then admit that the opposition was right. 20 days ago, I asked the attorney general to be replaced by an open letter, or you're going to suffer all these criticisms, so both opposition and public, some political damage, and then, in some two months, you're going to replace the attorney general. Because it's quite clear. So, I've got fellow HDZs coming to me after the questions I've asked. He says you can't take this anymore. This can't be defended anymore. So you're also aware that your protector of your corruption that you've set up to protect your members of the party's presidency is simply now the public has seen what this is all about and that more, that this game is not passing away. And fellow Boric, these are conservative estimates. I am convinced that this cost of corruption in Croatia is much higher and that we could have done a lot with that money. But what's more dangerous now is I don't know if we'd be happy to have this European Public Prosecutor's Office or as someone who really loves Croatia. You say that in Croatia, the opposition doesn't actually have to find anything positive. I see a lot of positive things in Croatia. In both our people and our potentials. So, in that Croatia is a safe country regardless of these incidents that have been the past days, Croatia is a very safe country. That's our big advantage. But you don't do a lot of things the right way and everything we warn you about, we're not warning because we don't care about Croatia, we care about Croatia, we care about the opposite. Because we're convinced that we can do much better, that we can do without corruption, that we can't have this many people leaving this beautiful country full of potential, and that's something we're going to change. That's something we're gonna change. That time is coming. So the time to reveal the truth and the time to win over corruption in Croatia is very, very close. You can tell by the Prime Minister's nervous reactions. It was seen how I brought out what I was saying, how he reacted and how I express what I'm saying now. And I know that MOST is hurting you, and there's a reason for you to whine, and no one told me anything more beautiful than the prime minister today who said we were unfair. We are unfair to those who are corrupt, we are unfair to those who work against Croatian national interests but are loyal, loyal and faithful to the Croatian people and to the Homeland. That's what we'll always be and that's what hurts you. And you're aware that more and more Croatian citizens recognize it and that we're actually the only real defense to this corruption of yours, but also this madness that you've produced with your Staff towards which, so when you want it, there's no virus. If you wish, then your celebrations and celebrations and the one on the Pelješa Bridge are allowed, as well as in the celebration of your election victory. And when it comes to terrorizing citizens, then it's a general fear of what's ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76525	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76526	Thank you, Chairman. Dear counterpart Grmoja, therefore, Croatia has been crying out for years for a form of tax reform. I will not even mention the various forms and asphyxiation of citizens with all fiscal and parafiscal charges as such. There's one thing clearly visible from this budget, so I'm interested in your comment. In fact, it is predicted that a little more than 87 billion kuna should be taxed into the state budget itself, which is 7% more than this year. In fact, in other words, it turns out that the biggest revenue part of the budget at which it ends up being taxed as such. How do you comment on that fact?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76527	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76528	Well, that is quite clear, therefore, that they also through these legal ways through tax and cut do not remove from the pockets of Croatian citizens, and then by illegal corruption as well. So what we stand for is tax discharge, more responsible means more thrifty state, a smaller state apparatus, and the less so the less they manage, the less corruption. So where they have their fingers there are problems and corruption. It's visible, here. So they didn't, so we all knew that the biggest controls around the European funds were, and they couldn't hold back either. And now they're being chased by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. So where are the biggest controls? If you see how big that is, it's an incredible hunger and a need to be anointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76529	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76530	Thank you very much. I don't know, I don't know, I guess you're not lucky to think. Because this is a budget debate. I didn't hear a word that you said. I really didn't think you'd be lucky to think about it, but obviously you've been caught by some kind of buliism and some kind of bullshit you're pouring in here. [[Grmoya raid: This is all about the budget.]] [[Please, Mr. Reiner. It's not a conversation between you two.]] That you just can't resist yourself. So you've been selling to the citizens since the first day of your own existence some kind of fog. Remember that certificate with the public notary, it is the basis of that fog, no, and then we have the fact that one of your colleagues here is sworn as a parliamentary representative, that they will respect the laws of this state and the Constitution and all the laws. And then he says I won't follow that law. What's your word worth anyway? Are you thinking about it since you're acting on some kind of duty? Is that what I just said just to say or is that something holding you? Because if you're going to reach out and say I respect all the laws and the constitution and then all of a sudden you say I won't anymore because it's in my interest that I won't. That's your chase you've been offering here for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76531	So as far as the public notary is concerned, it's so corny and I'm proud not only of you, but the whole public has nothing to tell us except that we said we wouldn't go to mean with HDZ and SDP to form authorities, that we actually led to a non-partisan prime minister at the head of Croatia. I remind you that at that time, the prime minister did not become either Karamarko, nor Milanovic, who at that time acted as candidates. It was the fruit of ours, and, no... You brought down Tihomir Oreshkovic, one of the better men in the prime minister's position. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You voted against him, and not us and our ministers sat there sitting next to him when you voted yes, to vote his mistrust. And as for Mira Bull, so when you first vote this bill so you can punish him, so you can put salt on his tail, then we'll talk. Where's your law? Where's your law? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I agree with Mir Bull always... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Sometimes we fight, but about these little things. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76532	The following will be spoken by honourable representative Željko Pavić, please. Tell me, what did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in the first place?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76533	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. 238, you're not just. A fellow Boris from the bench throws his hands off Niko Grmoji even though he has no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76534	It's me, it's me, I told her one and the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76535	You didn't warn him. You didn't give him a warning. You didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76536	I didn't even warn my colleagues, and you're not going to teach me how to lead the session, but I'm going to give you a warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76537	I'm not teaching you because if I were to study, then I wouldn't learn anything because you didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76538	Great.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76539	It's not in line with you. You're a decent, free and brave man you've always been, I'd even dare tell me an idol in some time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76540	You're way out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76541	Warn Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76542	You're way out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76543	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76544	I warned him, I warned my colleague, I didn't warn anyone. Come on, everybody, calm down, it's 5 and 20, there's still a lot of discussion until late hours, we don't have to get excited, do we? I didn't give any of the other notices even though my colleague Grumoja was throwing at him, they were having talks, which is not appropriate, let's just stick to Rules of Procedure and Theme. Now, the honourable representative, Željko Pavić, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76545	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I heard in the debates before me that our colleagues were interested in what Croatia would look like in 2050. I would be super pleased if I knew exactly how much to invest and where to invest in next year because I unfortunately can't read it from this budget. You understand that. We watched, we looked at projects, we looked at subprojects that we wanted to comment on, but there's no such data, so... projects, subprojects aren't in there, and we can't comment because we don't know how much to invest on which subproject, for example if we take the road construction, and I'll explain it a little later where the problem is. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where someone asked where the man went. So I'm going to tell you people are actually going to go to the ministries if you noticed the salaries in the public administration growing, the total amount of money that will be allocated to the salaries is growing, so about 4% if I'm not mistaken, means that new employment is expected in the public administration. Furthermore, he would be very, very pleased, I would like to have such pink glasses as he had a colleague who had just spoken here and the glasses worn by members of the ruling majority when they read the budget documents for 2021. I don't know where this optimism comes from, I have to admit that Mr. Maric, our minister, has made a real effort on the budget that growth and costs and revenues are actually consistent with the withdrawal of money or with the growth or fall of money withdrawal from European funds, and there are no big surprises there. As far as bookkeeping is concerned, everything is 100% true and everything is true. But what has been said today in the initial presentations of Mr. Prime Minister, GDP growth in percentages at Europe's level is one of the higher. Let's look at what this growth per capita is in nominal terms, so let's see where we are then, so let's see how much growth we have. You know, when you buy clothes and it says that 2 percent is collected in the laundry, if those clothes are 1 meter long they're going to accumulate 2 cm, but if it's 2 meters long, it's going to add up 4 cm. So it's not the same, it's not the same as absolute amounts. About the corruption that was mentioned before and whether we could have more planes without corruption. I don't know if you saw the sign on the portals today. In the last year, 1160 corruption applications were rejected in DORH, 1160, a total of 21.33% of all reports that came for corruption and each application is worth approximately 10 million kuna, which is one of those famous 11 billion that we are searing for and for which we could buy maybe another fleet of Rafael. And now I look a little bit at the concrete things that confuse me a little bit and I couldn't find in the paperwork. I don't know if you've noticed, but education as a term appears in the document about 2,000 times, so we've focused on this problem, we're writing a lot about it, and I hope that we'll really solve it, given that the separations for the Ministry of Education are bigger, which we welcome. Health care is the next term most frequently mentioned. I've already asked the Minister what's going to happen to hospitals that are at a great minus, I hope we get that answer. We also have this problem with an emergency helicopter medical service that is not in the budget, and the competition, according to the minister's promise, was due in the spring of this year. So there's the problem. And what I would even ask if there was no problem in telling us what was actually contained in that project of Zabok – Krapina State Road, is there a Krapina knot that is otherwise about 35 million kuna and which is with the state road 307 Mokrice – Donja Stubica since we know that the tender is open for only 1 km of road, and it has a total of 12 km.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76546	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first one will be representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76547	Thank you very much. You're talking about the transparency of the budget. However, if we are talking about the transparency of the budget, we are talking about open public finances, then perhaps the Government of the Republic of Croatia could follow the example of many units of local self-government that have really opened their budget in the sense that you know exactly which project has been spent, rather than having a budget division at this level. And the division remained unremarked costs at the level. What does that mean? The division is the purchase of information equipment. What does that mean? Or information. Although perhaps from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, it is irrelevant, but we, not only as representatives but also the Croatian public, do not know exactly what their money is spent on. Do you see this obstacle to the open public budget and greater confidence not only in the government but also in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76548	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76549	Thank you for that question and thank you for actually giving me a chance to explain it a little bit more. Namely, each of us who are here in this assembly are among other important local projects, so projects financed from the budget, funded from the funds, and we would like to know how much money will be invested in these projects. When you look at this budget at this level, you can't find out. Let's just say that last year, about this same time we talked about the budget, I had a problem with funding a university, which is still down today. In the budget, they can't find him at all, and the teachers from the university are leaving and creating a big problem with the organization of work at that university. We'd like to know what's going on with all the budget users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76550	Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76551	Thank you very much. So there's obviously a colleague named Pavić... unknown, is it how much... a unit of local self-government, a university you mentioned where and how much to invest, selling shares, a share of 500 million kuna. You've been to FINA, so it's a lot familyier to you than to us doctors and someone else. My question, what do you think of the sale, were some ideas about the sale of the highway, it seems to me that Minister Doncic wanted to sell the highways very badly and thus raise our income? That's number one. And number two, there is no Minister Maric that's a question... for you and his state secretary when he'll be the first rebalancing... [[You don't understand.]] Will it be March, April, as far as you think? [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76552	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76553	I'll go. I'll start with another question. When we had a budget debate here last year, I warned that some of our hospitals wouldn't be able to function in a few months and some universities. It happened that they couldn't function in the first month. The fact is, we have to be honest and fair that it was one of the causes of the Covid crisis and that it was actually a multiple problem. However, if the budget was set differently, the problem would be much smaller. As regards the sale of any property in the possession of the Republic of Croatia, I personally am against it. Here we heard among other things the thesis just to explain to you we heard one thesis that if we sell the land it remains in Croatia. He stays, but the owner of that land is a stranger. He sows whatever he wants on that land, plants what he wants and sells to whoever he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76554	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Maric. [[Intruder Pavić: So are highways.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76555	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you mentioned health care and information, so I have a question for you since you're still an IT expert. When you look at a little bit of this item, then you see that for information health, an increase in funds is foreseen from $44.8 million to $54.3 million. Great. However, the half-year execution before the recent rebalancing was only 28.24% and then when you look at the entire 84-story budget you have information and now some ministries have increased funds, some are reduced. We naturally seek information. For example, in health care, all medical institutions still don't have a hospital information system, they're not connected. The question of managing waiting lists, connecting patient findings. And now, given the increase in resources in health care, we're actually waiting for a renaissance of information, or is it again about an up-to-date increase in funds that will then never again be... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76556	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76557	Here I was talking to the minister today. No minister, I spoke to him today in the hallway to explain my question to him. In fact, I tried to do it in one of my discussions and mention it earlier and explain that we have the National Council of State for Information, for Information Infrastructure. The Council is headed by the Prime Minister and cannot be taken into account the Council's tasks that the Prime Minister and the Council do not know what will happen and how it will be invested in any public institution. That's the Council's job. Now, is this information going to be an investment for diagnostic devices or will it really just be for informing business processes about the entry of patients, patients and everything else I don't know, but if it's about this other one then I suggest and suggest that it actually goes downtown... a service that exists and is spent on about 400 to 500 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76558	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76559	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. If I wanted to be politically correct, then I'd say one of the biggest challenges of this budget is the resources associated with the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, so to speak. NPOO. And now that we get in and see the budget, then you see that there's a series, so the ministries have always an item of funding related to NPOO, and that's going to be the biggest challenge, you're not even in a year, or already when it's going to be the first rebalancing we'll see how ready we have to withdraw those funds, how ready we are to do it all together. If we look at the Solidarity Fund's option, what's connected to the earthquake, then I have to admit that somehow I'm being caught by a small force, so far in 12 months we've withdrawn less than 1% of the funds. So that's one of the biggest challenges, but when you go into the budget and that's what you and I talked about, we see the NPOO item and we end it and we see millions and we see nothing more. The question is how at all on the first rebalancing or next budget we'll see what happened here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76560	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76561	Yeah, that's another problem. Namely, NPOO was for us at least who we were here in the assembly was one of the documents that we talked about a lot, and we think it was one of the most important documents that we should follow and that we should follow. Whether what is written in this document or not is really being monitored in this budget is very difficult for us to recognize, given that we stayed at that level that we have and in the budget. And if we try to work it out in some way I don't know which magician can do it unless there's information from the ministers of the individual resort, it just doesn't work. And it will be really interesting to see what resources will be withdrawn, in which the portfolio will be the most and how these funds will be spent if spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76562	The next debate will be respected representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76563	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, honourable representatives of the proposings, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the whole day we're talking budget for 2022. together with projections for the next and two years, there is almost no budget item on these nearly 1,000 pages that can't be talked about for 5 minutes what it is and how isolated it is in 2020 and '21, which is realised, which is foreseen by the budget for the next or the next two years. I've been thinking a little bit about what I'd like to talk about, what we'd like to hear from special citizens in my area, whether we're based on projects from Sibenik-Knin County or something a little wider about demographics, health care, social care and so forth. However, since there are almost no residents of my county and my region who do not live on tourism and for tourism as much as I would like to say, I would speak first of all, and I have addressed the figures which are and how much is derived from tourism. In fact, we know that the share of tourism with related activities is trade, transport, agriculture, food industry, construction, and 24% of GDP. Tourism is a major promotion of Croatian products, by smart investment in tourism we invest in the entire economy and enable Croatian citizens to have a better quality of life. The good results of the tourist season also increase the purchasing power of our citizens and encourage consumption. Looking at the macro-economic framework, we see that the state budget and projections as I said about '23. And '24. consider that real GDP growth will occur, and exactly the biggest contribution to this growth will be thanks to exports of goods and services, and when we talk about the export of services, we are primarily talking about tourism, of course with the growth of investment and personal consumption. Only on the increase in value added tax is planned, an increase of more than 8% is planned, but it would point out immediately as I said in the replica, we also saw that by budget rebalance we have increased that item precisely thanks to tourism, personal consumption and investment. So I have to say that when I paid attention to the point of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, when I saw that there was a slightly smaller amount to be predicted than this year, it saddened me. Then I went to a little more detailed analysis, and then here I can tell everyone who's interested in tourism that it's in 2022. It is projected to single out the Ministry of Tourism and Sports over 634 million kuna, which is 90% more than in 2020, in '21. We have had some special, I would say income and expenditure, primarily relating to the European Social Fund, so that all those involved in tourism and catering can be satisfied because here is only the Mechanism for Recovery and Resistance in this year predicts expenditures of over 27 million, and in the coming years 344, and then even in the projection of '24. Eight hundred and twenty-seven million. To boost the human potential tourism market in tourism more than 110% more than this year, over 13 million. We know very well that man is the key to success in tourism and therefore special praises to this particular item. It also reserved 7 million kuna for the competitiveness of the tourism economy over 400% more than in this year 25 million, only for capital aid 23 million, which is the same as around 700% more this year, for the development of sustainable innovative and sustainable tourism 27 million, unlike over 27 million and 700 compared to this year where we had only 550 thousand. Support for the development of tourism products special forms of tourism 5.5 million kuna compared to this year when we had only 400 thousand. The pandemic has shown the vulnerability of the tourism sector and the need to strengthen its resilience and development of sustainable forms, however, the government has shown that it can hit balanced measures and secure a tourist season whose success was beyond expectations. Among other things, she would say special praises to measures to preserve jobs where 700 thousand jobs and stabilised businesses are preserved over 120 thousand employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76564	We also have more replicas on your exhibit. The first is a respected representative of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Since you have already spoken about tourism, you cannot notice that in the State budget, there is an establishment of organised provision of health services in tourism with a figure of 5 million and a sixth, five million seven hundred kuna, and these funds relate to the planning of the project documentation for 10 institutions, health institutions according to the public call published. I think that this is a good investment in health tourism, health tourism is the economic branch of our country and health tourism in the health system will certainly significantly improve and the resources hospitals can use, and this project documentation financed by the Ministry of Health will be a very big contribution to this development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76566	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76567	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues, Grba Bujevic, thank you for this replica. Here and this is an indication that not only must it be at the point of the tourism ministry something that is to be invested in tourism. And as I said, tourism is a specific branch that has just shown in this pandemic how sensitive it is and that is why we need to develop selective forms of tourism and therefore health tourism I believe is the future, our future in health tourism is especially what it can develop in other months not only in summer when we can offer only the sun and the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76568	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76569	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. You stated that tourism is certainly one of the essential elements that fills our State budget and we are aware of it and that the government is aware of these facts and created the conditions to ensure a good season under these conditions. What is certainly important is that the Government, and what is visible from this Budget in continuity, has the same objectives, and that is to ensure that the best position for the most vulnerable groups in society is also seen through this Budget, but it is also not only part of the budget that is important to health. We have a number of elements in the budget that are important from the social, from education, from the economy, from a number of projects that we have planned in the IPO, and in this period we must certainly ensure the conditions for the achievement of these projects and surely the situation with the crown is such that we cannot predict exactly everything that is expected of us in health care, I'm sure the reform must have passed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76570	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76571	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. The truth is the biggest and most significant increase in expenditures we have on those items that you've been talking about, for example. The welfare system gets 836 million more. Increased wages for overtime in healthcare 245 million more, pensions and pension system 744 million, and so on. This Budget, or Government and Resolute Ministers, took care of all categories of our citizens as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76572	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76573	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about the tourism sector that was seen through the pandemic that it was actually very sensitive and demanding. He showed some resistance, but we also concluded that not all cards should be put on tourism and that we should also turn to other economic branches. I had the opportunity to see during my visit to your county excellent examples of good practice where tourist rural economies have developed that offer exclusively local food to domestic producers. I think it's a good way to go because it's that way and it's ecologically sustainable, it leaves a smaller carbon footprint, and it helps actually connect that green and blue field as we like to say it. Do you think it would be a good idea to think about just such caterers and hotelers perhaps rewarding and additionally, since they offer exclusively local food in their facilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76574	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76575	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. As I said about tourism, there are numerous branches and agriculture and the food industry. It would be necessary as soon as possible not only to encourage, but as you said in some way either subsidize or in any way reward. Is it some kind of star, is it some kind of signage at the entrance of the object? Although it must be admitted that we can find more and more our products on our table. The guests themselves know it and want to reward it and, of course, that such prices can also be something stronger and thus earning something higher, because really when you come to a country, it's not only good to try some speciality of the end but also to be made from the product of that region.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76576	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76577	I'd like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleague of the council. Of course you have dedicated this individual debate to tourism, you come from that area, you know how important it is not only for our tourist resorts but also for the general budget of Croatia and the entire economy. 2018 and 2019 It showed a significant turn of events in tourism, and they were great seasons in tourism. The arrival of the pandemic becomes a fear, a justified fear that there will be a major subjugation and that the 2020 season will be almost zero. But it happened exactly the opposite, already in 2021, so this year, the tourist season was great and the inflow of funds into the State budget was good. Is that why it just happened by accident or was it because the well-balanced measures of the Government that were taken to preserve the economy, and then certainly tourism,... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76578	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76579	Thank you very much, colleague Murganic. Well, I think that the very well-balanced measures are not only those relating to the protection of the health of our citizens, but also those related to the protection of jobs that were support and employers, as well as employees. Because if we had lost the quality workforce as we had at first one I would have said even a wave of departures of precisely quality labour, we would have a far greater problem how and do this season despite the large number of arrivals and guests in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76580	Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, you are a bit contradictory, therefore, in your entire praise for tourism. The truth is every fifth kuna goes from tourism but when you look at the entire budget of 700 million kuna for tourism is very, very little you have to say clearly. A little, not enough. Four features of 21st century tourism. It must be innovative, sustainable, green and smart. I'll just stick to the innovative. So it's health tourism. Mrs. Grba Bujevic says 5 million kuna. Nothing for innovative tourism, nothing. He's smart. She was speaking from a colleague named Maric. Nothing for an ICT or a colleague in front of her. And as for the excessive praise of tourism, please mention... I'll get it. [[You don't understand.]] Let's not brag about him. We're developing the domestic mentality of Croats, let's not give him too much credit. We praise innovation, we praise green, we praise sustainablely. And colleagues Murganic came for Racan because he made the highway. They sat in their car in Munich, drove to Sibenik, otherwise none of it would have happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76582	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Ostojić: It is the key to everything.]] Thank you very much. [[Invadica Ostojić: Highway.]] Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76583	Thank you very much. You didn't listen well to me, colleague Ostojić. I said I'm sorry about how much tourism it gives me that I've seen that there's even something less than I said this year. But when I went into analysis then I saw a recovery mechanism and resistance we have 27 million at 23. 344, then 827, and the competitiveness of the tourism economy 400 and slightly higher, the 7 million kuna credit-subsidisation programme, capital aid 23, strengthening the tourism market, human potential 110% higher and so on. So those important items relating to development and human potential, aid to the economy, the development of sustainable innovative and resistant tourism to the IPO as well as support for the development of tourism products of special forms of tourism are all items that are either first in 700, 800 and even 1000% more than in this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76584	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76585	Dear colleagues, you come from part of Croatia where tourism is even more important than in the rest of Croatia which practically lives on tourism and what is very easy to learn from any of them who deals with tourism that two things that make it competitive and quality. Now you need to ask yourself what this government that took at least 1/5 of all tourism money did for that tourism. I'll tell you de facto nothing. She cut one sheep with 25% VAT because we have the biggest VAT on tourism to be competitive with others. You speak, people matter. You'll have a very hard time paying your salary if the VATs take your money. Consider whether it would be good for the Croatian government to reduce VAT... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76586	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76587	Thank you very much. Coliar Brumnic is difficult not to come from a region where tourism is the main activity, so he disagrees that it would be good if the VAT was lower. However, we must be aware of the situation and the time in which we live. This government, namely the previous government of our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, has reduced VATs to housing. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76588	Please, let's not get off the bench. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76589	When the time came then it was working and it was done so it occurred in the past term of Andrej Plenkovic to reduce VAT to accommodation. It would be good to cut to the rest, but we need to be aware of who pays the VAT. The guest pays VAT. Therefore, the guest who comes and pays for the accommodation must surely use some kind of service in the cafe and the rest. When we spoke, then there was a discussion about catering services, we also use catering services. It's kind of a luxury thing to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76590	Thank you. Representative Hajdukovic will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76591	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we've been discussing the budget all day. I already don't know which budget Andrej Plenkovic is proposing, which is what I said in the opening statement myself. But what I'd like to see is some progress from a colleague and a colleague, I'd like to see progress in the budget section. I'd like to see more transparency, I'd like to see more wisdom in budget planning, but I haven't seen anything out of it. So we colleagues and colleagues, and many of you, in fact, all of us come from some local environments, we're all more or less local politicians than we are national politicians, and we come from environments where the budget is much more transparent than national and it should be at least the other way around if you ask me. It's the national budget that should set standards, and we have a reverse situation. So that's how colleagues and colleagues discuss other and unremarkable costs, let's say, in different divisions in different ministries. Here until recently on the right hand side of the assembly were all colleagues, now they were joined by a colleague of Ivanovic... whom I otherwise greatly appreciate and respect. But where are the colleagues? Is it possible that they're planning on taking it out of the unremarkable and other expenses as we saw in DORH affairs, software, this one, how money is milked? From the Croatian budget, so very, very, very likely colleagues and colleagues. I'll be mean and I'll say it, otherwise I'm not mean, otherwise I'm very well-intentioned, but I'll be happy to say this, and my colleague Murgnić can laugh, but the fact remains that her party is convicted of corruption, none here on this side or on this side is, so fellow Members of yours is an honor. On the other hand, when we talk about a budget that promotes development, which has a vision, which wants to contribute to something that we all strive for in Croatia, then I can't talk about some things. I can't talk about the HNK in Pechuh. If we finance the HNK in Mostar, now not exactly a symbolic amount and in a country where the Croatian people are one of the constituent people means they get some finance from their country, then how can we forget the Pecuh and only the HNK outside the Croatian speech area, even if with 1000 kuna colleagues and colleagues, but that would be at least, at least, polite, not to say anything else. If we are talking about Croatia as a country of knowledge, then I cannot believe that the gifted students are also either working with gifted students with symbolic amounts or, let's say, the Croatian qualification framework whose implementation is extremely important and where are we still late or, say, the Croatian community of technical culture if we insist on a stem area or outside of teaching activity in primary school and secondary schools, where are we scheduled here? If we talk about violence and prevention of the same, then we can hardly single out symbolic means for very good projects, say "Sports against violence", "Prevention of violence in elementary school", about "Consulting violence among peers in the school system", so these are all the projects that we colleagues and colleagues dig in, we dig in maybe one million kuna a year, and then we feel very good if you know we are working on prevention. We're not working on prevention, we're not working on anything. These are barely symbolic amounts. If we are also talking about the stem area, and where is our technical culture, encouraging technical culture in primary and secondary education? She's gone, especially in elementary school where it's very important. Technical culture in primary school has one hour a week. It's colleagues and colleagues not symbolic but less than that, so very, very thin and very low. And then at the end when we talk about protecting the population from and infectious diseases and from different monsters, mosquitoes in Slavonia are a monster, for them we don't separate anything and it's still left to JLS or municipalities that can do little or nothing. We didn't raise it to the county, and we didn't give any more significant funds. And in the end, I'd still like to finish with one thought. The minister said that half, about half a million will be invested. in the cleaning of the balance sheet, or [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm curious about what they're in, what they're in. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Okay, thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you colleague Hajdukovic, you've exceeded your time enough, here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76592	We have one replica of Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, you have listed a lot of what you are not satisfied with, I have somehow expected from you since we have participated in several discussions together, and regarding the preservation of sugar production in the Republic of Croatia that you will notice in the budget that a programme of support is planned for sugar producers in order to help and maintain this production and in fact to save sugar production in the Republic of Croatia, I must say that unfortunately the European Commission has not been very broad-handed, it has not approved our notification so that we will actually have to take these funds from productively tied payments, but here I hope you are satisfied with that measure because it is also important for your Osijek-Baranja, but also for Virovitic-Porad County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76594	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76595	Thank you very much. You also hear from a president who is very arbitrary in giving measures to some or a warning, some take the floor right away. That's enough, thank you, Vice President, you're very objective and I appreciate it very much. As far as Osijek-Baranja County is concerned, I wish that were the case. But for Osijek-Baranja County it's already late, our sugar shop went out, our sugar shop became a warehouse, a lot of people got fired there. Therefore, for Osijek-Baranja County, the story is over, unfortunately. There are opportunities for other counties, there are for, for the mayor's sugar shop. However, what sugar producers were talking about is, these are emission quotas, something else, or adaptation to their production, in order to adapt to the standards that the EU expects of them. At the end of the day, I can't think of this as something positive, I'd estimate that the state was saving, say, the Ossetian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76596	Honorable representative Grozdana Peric will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76597	... esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[Last-on speaker]] Here I am in an individual debate, as my colleague Boric would say, wondering what kind of parallel worlds we live in, so I would just mention one thing. The colleague used to mention tourism and she forgot one detail, which is that, for example, tourism has taken care of the reduction of VAT to serving food and drinks, food, drinks, and accommodation, so it is down to 13%. Also, what is important to say is that tourism allows the possibility that it is tax-recognized cost to entrepreneurs of employee accommodation and employee nutrition, which is a major item, so that many hotelers built accommodations for their employees, and also have the possibility of preserving seasonal workers in a way that they can pay them all year round. Therefore, the segment was largely accounted for. What I would like to point out is that many in Croatia towns have not slept here since 2016, and then the government called a competition in 2016, which is so-called. integrated territorial investment or ITU mechanism, which is valid from 2014 to 2020 and in this mechanism was allowed to register cities that have more than 50,000 inhabitants and these are the cities of Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Slavonski Brod now and Pula. And here we are, as a city then, taking advantage of this opportunity and applying in October 2016, in fact, to achieve from this ITU mechanism that was achieved, where the city of Zadar and Nin and 13 municipalities, Bibinje, Galovac, Kali, Kukljica, Novigrad, Poličnik, Posedarje, Preko, Razanac, Sukosan, Škabrnja, Vrsi, Zemunik Donji actually withdrew over 300 million euros, 303.4 million euros. So this is a great opportunity that allows residents and tourists who come to our area to have a solution both to the drain and to the water supply. During this mechanism, the city of Nin together with Vrsi and Privlak also built a sewer, that is to say, through the agromerization of 102km of sewerage network, 34 pump stations, 32km of water network, and that costs about 405 million kuna. So it is also evident that you and such cities and municipalities, when they think their future well, then think about their inhabitants, but also about the possibilities of development. And all of this will be reflected in the implementation of the 2021 budget this year, but also with the new projects will be the state budget also in 2022. So that's something that lasts, which doesn't happen at once, but lasts, and that's what's going to happen in the National Resistance and Recovery Programme, so some don't sleep, they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76598	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76599	My colleague Peric, how do you interpret the fact that HZ infrastructure uses billions of subsidies from taxpayers while also sponsoring the media. According to EU rules on state support, this is strictly prohibited. However, media control is a prerequisite for your government's survival. Because imagine that the media is working on professional criteria. In order for the public to accept that Bozidar Kalmeta's son is the chairman of the Liburni City Transporter Supervisory Board. And the son of Split's mayor of the county pharmacy service. At the same time, you're arresting the mayor of Međimurje because he hired someone in the county who's not in any family relationship. The arrest otherwise caused new elections that cost millions of budget money, while the senior mayor was re-elected. Are you in HDZ aware that you are destroying Croatian society with this violence of common sense and are aware of how much damage you are doing to the Croatian people and what is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76600	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76601	Thank you very much. Each, each extra budget user has its own Supervisory Boards or Administrative Boards and they're the ones who can give an answer to what they've spent on I don't know. And when you talk about it, and in this way you call individuals and children of some people, then it is just as inappropriate of you because these children have their own education, have their integrity, have the right to seek a place in society, have the right to compete and be appointed as any other child.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76602	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you spoke of projects implemented in your city and county thanks to the resources of the state budget of European funds, and in fact here you would like to open the topic of how important it is to ask citizens of municipalities, cities, village residents what they really need and thus plan projects that will be implemented because we see that the money is enough and I would like for this money to be engrossed and used in a smart way, to add value to the people we want to keep at the end of Croatia. It was mentioned in previous discussions that no projects from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan in this budget were seen. I've read the agriculture budget in detail, I assume you've read the other segments in detail. I have found projects relating to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan in this budget. They are planned, I believe that they will be followed by reforms that are a prerequisite to actually withdraw all resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76604	Thank you, dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76605	Thank you very much for asking, that it would be very unserious of the government or of us here to defend something that isn't integrated into the budget itself. So these people here have been working on the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, and these people are also responding personally to what's going to happen. So they had to think very carefully and coordinate exactly all of these programs and projects through certain items that they can't see, you know, they jump right out of the budget, but they did a series of documents that they had to comb and install inside so that they could form an integral part of just that they could withdraw those funds tomorrow. Therefore, they know best what was the hard work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76606	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76607	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague, it is certain that this budget, as far as income and expenditure parties are concerned, is realistic, that it is well planned and set. What you were saying about the project ITU mechanism that has been revived in your County, it has also been revived in other counties, as well as in Karlovac County and it is certain that Ada should also point out that numerous projects such as this or the construction of flood defense dams or what awaits us, and this is a recovery from the earthquake, are not projects that will be sent to begin and end with one budget. Many, therefore, budgets are actually conditioned by a number of projects that last several years. What is certainly important to point out is that in this budget other than local self-government accounting projects and in a way that is provided funds for less developed but also for those units that want to be functionally combined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76608	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76609	Yeah, that's what I said at first. So this process from the previous period from 2014 to 2020 was actually one possibility of preparation that some of them managed to use and 2016 as soon as the competition was announced, but this does not mean that there are no options for others, but it is precisely important that those who manage a particular area of the City, the Municipality or the County think about what this County, the City or the Community needs, which are priorities and then focus on exactly what is important, create preconditions, create documentation, building permits and everything else so that they can apply and thus enable themselves to develop. So here is now the possibility of these 100 million kunas where integration is allowed in this sense Some... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76610	Now he will speak to a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76611	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament would very much like to say the respected minister, but the minister is missing, respected colleagues and colleagues. To begin with, I am sorry that there is no minister, because in fact we are trying to refer to him or the Croatian Government for what he presented in the budget, and I am honestly going to try to help him look at things from another angle and see what he can fix. My colleague Peric was unable to report to the replica, and then I will now use here in 15 seconds the country we live in. We live in a country where the party that is in power is convicted of corruption, where VAT on tourism is the largest in the environment and thus you help this same tourism to become competitive. And now a little bit about what the government has done to the seventh, I'm not practically going to tell the same budget, because then someone will take me by the word that they're not overwritten numbers, but by a budget that goes in the same direction. It contributed to Croatia being one of the largest exporters in Europe of human potential. That she has exported 70 billion euros of human potential over the past seven years. That's what you've done with these calculations. And what's supposed to be the budget? The budget should be a document that makes the lives of citizens in this country better and in what way. So that it strengthens the competitiveness of the Croatian economy of the Croatian industry, to secure higher salaries, better education, better health care, etc. all that concerns Croatian citizens. Is that in the budget for 2022? No. A Japanese proverb but no minister, says overnight success comes after 20 years of hard work. So 20 years from now, we should be moving in some direction and knowing what that is. We should, someone said a strategic vision. Everyone is talking about full reforms, complete reforms practically of the whole society, about some new social paradigm where we would teach our people, teach them, or explain that success is good, but success is based on knowledge, work and pawnage. And now a little bit if this budget is such that it shows. I said in my replica, I'll practically have a 30% reduction in health care. I'm calling on the minister to resign. I find it hard to believe that a minister could cut costs by 30% unless those costs were some kind of mambo jumbo, so the money went missing. If not, then the minister must resign because he cannot fit into the government program. And what else does this budget show? That this government is actually seeking to cut sheep, and where it finds these sheep, so it finds them in Croatian citizens and finds them in the Croatian economy. Now how? So then you start looking back at things in the budget and you realize that the profit tax in the year that should be better will stay the same, but look who makes the biggest profit tax? The highest profit tax is achieved by HEP and HEP-related enterprises. If it were something else, we would call it parafiscal intrusion, but it is a de facto haircut of Croatian citizens. How do we encourage Croatian producers? In fact, we encourage Croatian producers to meet as someone said on the board we are in the capitalist system, traders. So these traders without any right take what Croatian producers produce and do not recognise the practical inflation and all the other characteristics that are happening. I didn't get any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76612	Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Brumnic, you're right, so the key is human capital. This is the key to all economies, which is why, of course, there were visions, strategies, and today we have, and this is what we saw from the presentation of colleague Perić just tactics, not strategy. Be careful, colleague Peric said that the agglomeration in Zadar is a huge, million-dollar project 567 million kuna, but she forgets or doesn't know it's 12 contracts, 11 is signed, 12 is not yet. If it's signed on 12th, then it's going to exceed 140 million kuna, and that's the fact of my colleague Perry, that's a fact for you. So either you don't know, Google... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76614	Please, please, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, My colleague Peric, please not from the scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76615	No, you're turning your head. I, I, I on yours, I on your... I'm responding. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ha co-worker Brumnic, what do you think of such a thing when someone exceeds that by 30% is a visionary or... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76616	You get a warning from your colleague Peric, you can't speak from the scene. Here you are, dear representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76617	I'll go like this,... investment is something that virtually Europe has given us because it has realized that we are unable to get involved in anything more constructive. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Through that, through that money, we were supposed to raise the quality of our lives, and knowing this government, we see that she didn't take full advantage of what she could. I'm not talking about one county, I'm talking about the whole Republic of Croatia. And that's why the citizens leave the Republic of Croatia. In recent years, 70 billion euros in human potential have been exported by the Republic of Croatia to Europe. That's what you really need to imagine. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76618	Honorable representative Mariana Petir will speak next.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The draft budget is based on positive trends in the recovery of the Croatian economy, an announcement of economic growth and GDP growth of at least 9% in 2921, in the successful tourist season and export growth. In view of the pandemic still in effect and not being monitored through the budget, all the necessary elements are provided on the one hand so that the economy and jobs will not be compromised, and on the other hand, that everyone in need of health care and social protection should indeed be provided. It must not be forgotten that Croatia has faced several devastating earthquakes that many families have left homeless, so the recovery of damage from earthquakes and reconstruction is a priority in this budget, and I hope that all the administrative obstacles that have occurred so far and which have slowed down this recovery. I believe everyone is aware that the issue of rapid renewal is the issue of the rest of the population in the rural areas of Sisak-Moslavina County. This budget also provides for financial resources for less developed areas in the Republic of Croatia, the emphasis being placed on the even development of all our regions. I would just remind myself that it is important to plan projects for rural people to ask what they need to be kept in the country and to keep them safe from Croatian rural space. The pandemic opened its eyes to all those who did not consider agriculture and food security an important topic. We saw that by closing the borders, our local patriotism grew rapidly, so suddenly the products of local producers started to be purchased, virtual markets opened overnight and set up at the speed of lightning short supply chains. But by reopening the borders, we returned to our old habits and communications, forgetting whether we would have enough food depends on the sovereignty of our country. The state has helped economies to preserve their jobs, helping farmers whose production died during the pandemic. Some sectors such as livestock, despite their invested and planned resources, remain in an extremely difficult situation. We can say that the Ministry of Agriculture is the winner of this budget, but I think it is important to point out that all investments should actually be monitored by thinking and acting which will be supportive for farmers. Despite the pandemic, we had a great tourist season, but I would repeat once again that we should not put all the tickets on tourism, especially if we did not represent Croatia's agricultural product to a sufficient extent. So once again I want to underline that it is important to produce enough domestic food for our citizens but also for our tourist offer. And in order to do so, we need sufficient amounts of food for which it is important to encourage the association of producers. The budget provides money for this purpose, but we see in the implementation that there are still obstacles to the establishment of producer organisations. When we plan infrastructure facilities for distribution centres then I think it's very important that we plan them because the funds are secured in the budget where we have fruit and vegetable production. When we plan to irrigate what the funds are provided for in the budget then it is important that we have users who will tap into this irrigation system so that the money we invest from the budget, from the European funds, from the National Resilience and Recovery Programme will indeed be spent in a smart way and actually give added value to all these projects. Because of the negative impact of the climate change we are witnessing, we know that climate-environmental ambitions are extremely high. In order to answer them properly, we need a shift in behaviour, we need a shift in the use of funds, in the distribution of support, in production, in processing, therefore in the greater use of renewable energy sources. In this regard, we also need to remove the administrative obstacles that are present. Finally, I would like to refer to the fact that despite the many needs we ourselves have not forgotten, even those on the sidelines of society in third countries are exposed to various types of discrimination, and it is good that this budget provides assistance for them and that we have shown solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76620	We have a few replicas. Honourable representative Ivanovic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76621	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. Today we have heard a lot of different numbers and one of which has rarely touched and is related to the 2022 budget is agriculture. Agriculture is one of the segments of the Croatian economy in which we have to invest permanently. Agriculture is something without which a serious economic one cannot survive. We saw that now in the time of the crown crisis. I would say that here I am not long in the Parliament, this is the second budget that has been adopted since I've been here but I can also commend the Ministry of Finance, of course the Ministry of Agriculture in that sense to see the shifts. Here are the shifts and what you mentioned regional, distribution centres as something we're going to need, Ergela Lipik, the incentive of association is all what we talk about a lot, and it still doesn't happen in space, and I'm sure with this budget we'll get to some others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76622	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76623	Thank you very much to your colleague Ivanovic. Yeah, you can see the shifts. The agricultural budget is bigger than it's ever been before. It's planned for 8.65 billion kuna for next year. It also shows those projects that are important to us and that we have planned in the National Programme for Recovery and Resistance relating to the preconditions for the implementation of the membership, which means that we are expecting the Law on Cooperation in the Croatian Parliament soon. It also provides for 80 million kuna for logistics infrastructure networks to strengthen the production-market chain in the fruit and vegetable sector. And I think it's important that we just detect those areas where we have that production so that we don't build dead capital or someone's monument, but really those producers who need it to secure the infrastructure so they can do business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76624	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76625	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, you spoke of agriculture in the time of the epidemic. I'm kind of looking at this budget I'm looking at culture of course primarily. The impression is that this epidemic is over, so I'd like to ask you all about the importance of agriculture, especially in such situations of threat, wasn't that a lesson enough for us to start treating agriculture differently? And what I've been looking at, I don't see that we've made a major shift in that, even in relation to the epidemic that I have to say, I hope we all agree that unfortunately it's still here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76626	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76627	Thank you very much, fellow Members, for this observation. The pandemic did open her eyes, but since we're all short-term memories, then I'd say first of all to us as consumers that we should turn more to domestic local products. The budget follows the needs of the agriculture sector, although I fear that livestock farming and so many millions will not be enough regardless of the assistance of the European Union and what is provided in the budget because the livestock sector is indeed under great pressure. They did not raise prices for neither milk nor meat. In the meantime, she picked up their cattle for 30%. They are exposed to unfair competition. And when I say that money is not only enough because money actually exists, we need some measures to better reposition themselves on the market, so that we may be a little stricter in controlling what comes from imports in order to remove administrative barriers to short food supply chains coming into life faster. But I also think it's very important that we turn to local producers ourselves as we did in the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76628	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76629	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues that you're right when you say that we just need to change the structure of our economy and that's what I and the replica minister were saying. In fact, the structure of our economy must be very different, not as dependent on one branch as it is now and certainly that agriculture and other activities play a significant role, because this actually makes us stronger in any threat, any situation where we will inevitably come as a country and in the future. And it's really important that we actually rely on our own production in both agriculture and industry and any other branch.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76630	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76631	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Peric. I agree with you. I think we need to recognize our resources and then use them in a smart way. Surely tourism is important, with 18% contribution to GDP, but also on the other hand, it's a slippery terrain and we saw that, that this can be taken over from us when some global movement that we really don't have an impact on happens. That's why it's important to turn that story of connecting green and blue fields into reality. It can't be done by the finance minister himself, and I think it's very important that this inter-resorial cooperation and dialogue, somehow more strongly revive, disappears from the project because it refers to my portfolio, but rather to a slightly wider picture and I would also mention the question of renewable energy sources. We have debated a lot because we would like them to be more accessible to the use of farmers, which means that through some competitions that follow, these obstacles should be removed so that farmers can use resources and close the entire cycle of production and still produce energy and use it on their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76632	Thank you, she will now speak to the esteemed representative of Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76633	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. This year's culture budget has good news for many sectors. For museum activity programmes, an increase of approximately 10%, for audio visual programs an increase of 5.5%, theatre and musical scene activities remained unfortunately on the same, no increase but there is no reduction which is something anyway. Library publishing was reduced by 3% compared to November rebalancing, we do not know why this happened, especially given the fact that 2021 was declared a year of reading and was expected to increase the funding of literary publishing. That's too bad. Furthermore, cultural associations have an increase of almost 8%, innovative artistic practices increasing by almost 10%. A huge item is in programmes to improve the availability of culture to people with disabilities of 146 million. These are, of course, resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, but unfortunately nowhere is specifically indicated in what this money will be invested in, in which programmes I think. We certainly welcome the increases for programmes related to people with disabilities who have been represented by less than 2 million in the culture budgets so far. But we would still like to know exactly what items this huge money is going to be, will be invested. Generally, therefore, we welcome all the rises in culture, but I regret to say that we have not yet reached the level of funding that would put culture into the foundations of this society. A society that has no education, science and culture in its foundations is not a society of prosperity but a society of survival. It is a society that is still condemned to a slight death without such foundation. But let us hope that these changes will come. International cultural co-operation has increased by a large 30%, commendably absolutely but here again we come to a large questionnaire. In fact, the assumption is that for international co-operation, funds are significantly increasing, counting on stopping the epidemic. This is also evident from the fact that the measures provided for in the cultural sector due to the coronary epidemic are 0kn, as well as for supporting independent artists, as well as for helping the industry of cultural and artistic events due to the current pandemic Covid 19,0kn. It's optimistic, but we're afraid of a weak reality. The epidemic, unfortunately, as we can see, is not over. These days we are witnessing the emergence of a new strain that we do not yet know the consequences and without it the cultural sector is acting with restrictions on epidemiological measures and is therefore far from its full capacity. And so far, the cultural sector has been one of the most affected epidemics of the coronary virus. Independent artists and cultural workers from an independent scene have bypassed the support provided by the government to economic operators. Within 20 months of the start of the epidemic, they received only 4 months of support. Thank you. As they are clearly discriminated against, I'd like you to hear that, compared to all the other workers in the economy. And that is why we consider it necessary to provide at least the basic means to help independent artists and cultural workers on an independent stage that has already been brought to the brink and across the edges of poverty and naked existence. We will certainly make an amendment to that item and hope that it will be adopted. Because artists and cultural workers in Croatia finally deserved to be at least equal with workers in the economy. It is not evident in the culture budget that the funds for the restoration of the Croatian classical film are provided on the celuid strip. I've talked about this subject twice in free speeches. Namely, unless 200 Croatian classic feature films, which were made by 2000, are urgently restored, will disappear forever. Forever disappear irreparable and irreparable. And that's why we need to react urgently and secure funds for their immediate restoration. The restoration and then digitisation will be submitted to this amendment, but I think a government should really care about its cultural heritage, such as Croatian film heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76634	Thank you. You don't have a replica. Mrs. Ivana Kekin is on her way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76635	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives and MPs. So I think that whenever we talk about the budget either on a rebalancing or when it comes to a new one, there is always one question that remains answered, that is the question that is normally the eternally calm Minister Maric in his only angry episode, which he thought was not being asked, and that is the question of how much health costs in Croatia at the end, how much health care costs. I got what I knew best, and I could go into the health department to try to figure it out, but I came out with more questions than I came in. One thing I'm going to say is that in the next period, it is predicted that even more funds than last year are being used from the Solidarity Fund for the rebuilding of hospitals, more than 700 million, we certainly welcome that, with the skepticism of course, since the estimated 450 million last year have not been used at all, but here our praises stand. There's a series of misunderstandings, it's so vague that you'd even dare to think it might not be an accident. Let's say it's completely unclear 50 million kunas that are in position to get out of the recovery mechanism and resilience. They say it is intended for a capital project to improve the quality and availability of health care. It's so insanely generic, I went to look at the explanation, the explanation is even more generic, nothing is clear what it refers to, prevention, therapy, diagnostics, where, to whom, we don't know. We see a reduction in the amount for the mountain rescue service, why, how it will compensate. The Mountain Rescue Service is really incredibly important, we're hearing about it. We see that there is a reduction in both the amount and the cooperation with the Citizens' Associations. It's also not clear who's going to make it up to you. These associations are very often filled with some holes that the health system is failing to do. We see that radically, only 15% of this year's funds reduces the support in providing health care to the seekers of international protection, it's the only thing I've ever thought of and that it's agreed with Minister Bozinovic that even better push the ticket of migrants so we won't need to treat them anymore. Also, there is no mention of an emergency helicopter medical service that is already turning into a mitzvah promise from Minister Beros, and there are some major misunderstandings. Let's put it this way in line with the budget on page 14 under the statement of revenue from the competent budget and from HZZO based on contractual obligations-- that's probably what's being paid to hospitals, I guess. We have an amount of $8.4 billion. He was 9.2 billion kuna in June, and only three weeks ago when we talked about Rebalance, we raised him to 10.3 billion kuna. It is completely unclear how such oscillations are possible and on which we count that next year we will need 2 billion kuna less for hospitals that we know are in terrible debt and that these debts are constantly growing. And then we also see later that, so this HZZO should give, and then we see that HZZO is going to be given less 3.1 billion. So in general, there are a lot of these transactions in this whole division between HZZO, the budget, the ministry, it's completely unclear why it can't be made more legible by some simple mathematical actions. And finally, of course, what others have noticed, when we are talking about oscillation, the key part is that the health ministry budget is projected for 16.1 billion kuna, that it was 20.2 billion kuna in June, and that it was raised to 22.5 billion in November. So we figure that in 2022, we're going to need 6.4 billion kuna less in the year that we're going to inevitably continue to have a pandemic, we haven't come to half of the Greek alphabet, in the year that we're going to be charged with all the things that we haven't done in the last two pandemics, all those preventive checks that have been skipped, all those diagnostics that have been skipped, all those chronic diseases that have been abandoned in our hospitals, all that mental health that no one cares about, all that comes at the expense, and we've predicted 6.4 billion kunas less. I am really interested in what this completely unmistakable immoderate optimism is based on, and I am even more interested in whose health it will be paid for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76636	You, too. Mr. Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76637	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, good evening. Now after everything the colleagues have said and said on behalf of the Club, I will finally say something about, again, educational topics. For the National Council for Education and Education, 400 thousand kunas were planned next year versus 150 euros this year, both originally and in Rebalans. Of these 400,000, 350 grand is needed for unremarkable business expenditures, you can't see what that is. Unfortunately, there's no explanation for that either. The document that explains, which explains the specific part of the budget that 2,000 pages is long, this is somehow missing, this is gone. The education of persons without Croatian citizenship such as the individualisation for treatment, which was mentioned by a colleague named Kekin for a short time, and this was reduced from 835 thousand, although not so radically but to 532.5, again without reason, is not clear why. Assistants in class. We had 20 million and 737 thousand, so it says in the June Rebalans. Now we raise it to 26 million, we raise it by 25%, but only around because in the recently voted rebalancing in November we had not 20 but 27 million and 737 thousand, in fact now it's about reducing the isolation for the assistants in the class, not the increase. Speaking of which, in the description of the programme under the heading "Effective human potentials from 2014 to 2020, priority 3 and 4 is mentioned as the allocation of grants for insurance of teaching assistants, for pupils of secondary and primary schools, with developmental difficulties. Phase 4 – as far as I know it actually refers to the current school year. I am interested in whether anywhere in the budget, if any funds are provided in the budget for the financing of assistants in the teaching for the next school year, namely for the period September/December 2022. On the other hand, we welcome the significant strengthening of the project "Croatian Meeting a Sustainable, Fair and Effective Education", which is now raised to 16 million kunas, of which more than 13 relate to a partnership or credit to the World Bank, and this is a pilot project that would allow infrastructure interventions to be taught in 50 schools and not just one shift course but, of course, a longer and more content stay of students at school. This is a valuable project. We should certainly support it. We'd like to know more, more details about it. But I'll end up pointing to this again. The NPOO in component 3 of education, science and research in the main challenges writes: The 15-year-olds with insufficient reading skills is 21.6%, in science 25.4%, in mathematics 31.2%. This lack of skills is on the right scale, on the right scale, actually level 2 and below, and this descriptively means that this share of our students is insufficiently qualified to participate in normal social flows. The NPOO as a goal sets these percentages below 15%. How do you do that? How did he recognize this budget? Of course, the construction and equipment of schools undoubtedly require one shift course and an extended stay of students at school. We intend to invest big money in this, and of course we also need time for designing and implementing public competitions and for construction. But trust me, we need more money and more time, and we will need to educate a new generation of teachers because the deficit of qualified teachers is already dramatic. Unfortunately, this budget doesn't show that we're doing anything to deal with it. That's deeply disappointing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76638	Thank you very much. ... Mr. Damir Byce is on his way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76639	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The EU recently adopted a budget for 2022, they had clear indications of what they wanted. These are health, youth and climate policy. When we talk about economic recovery, it's actually the only thing that ties their budget to ours. It was explained when we talk about the 2022 RH budget. that it is actually a budget that will be a reform budget. In Croatia it can be in two ways, in the income part and in the expenditure part. Speaking of income, I'd say the odds are missed. In fact, taxes will obviously not be reduced in 2022, neither the economy nor the citizens will feel it, and the income tax will remain the same. This means that the total of what is done will not be significantly different. And in the remote part of course, that may be the most important thing we should do is stick to the part about reform. The reform of local self-government, the reform of the social system is not seen anywhere in the rebalancing, in the budget and probably in the budget rebalancing, is seen only by health care, the health care that is actually the biggest loser in this budget and now we return to European politics, the European Parliament talking about health as a priority, not in Croatia. 6 or 4 billion less for health care in 2022 shows something, which is that we expect some changes either in the pandemic of the crown that hit us, either in the quality of treatment. Of course, however, it is clear to all of us that this is impossible. Ministers need to balance the budget, therefore reducing the health-related part, which may have been the simplest and through the rebalance of the budget that we will most likely have soon, I would not say that we will increase that significantly. In what way it is clear, the minister, in one of the talks he had, gave the statement to the board, indicated that the money would be in charge in this case, so the Republic of Croatia. The reform called for has not yet been presented, we do not know whether the health care will be centralized, whether the state will own all its health care in the Republic of Croatia or anything else. But when I talk about it right now, I'm going to say that, of course, right now, the budget is going to give an answer for a while. But to be small and local, we are therefore parliamentary representatives of the electoral units and that is a few times indicated here, so I am also a parliamentary representative of the 2nd constituency. What I would like to commend is that at least in the descriptive section there are several roads. Namely, a road connecting in this case Zagreb with Koprivnica and of course Zagreb-Virovica. What is missing are those monetary statements, when it will begin, how much it will be built, but let us be in good faith that it will happen. Also when we talk about health care, I would say that health investments must be at both regional and local level and state level. At this point, we have a situation that our new General Hospital building in Bjelovar has been completed, it has been granted a useful permit, so the county has paid 60 and some million kunas of VAT, and I think it would be okay for the state as well as in Istria, as well as in many other hospitals, such as Mostar helps and General Hospital in Bjelovar. This is not seen in the budget as any other project related to the Bjelovar-Biogor County or II. election unit. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76640	Thank you very much. Mr. Totgergeli asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76641	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleague, Agent Byce. I actually have a question. I read in the media that a private hospital is being built bigger than many general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia for 160 million kunas, so why did you arrange for the construction of a Belarusian hospital for 282 million? And after the budget rebalancing debate, the media said you submitted an amendment that was not in accordance with the law. Today, I thought it was true, today when I look at that amendment and the one that you submitted to the 2022 budget, then I actually see that someone forged your signature on the rebalancing amendment, so I had to apologize for thinking that you submitted an amendment that was not in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76642	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76643	When we're actually talking about building only the third new hospital in Croatia when we're talking about local hospitals which I think is plus, and the HDZ in my county I think that's minus I'd say that it wasn't limited to 282 million kuna, but 272 million kuna. When we talk about how it was qualified in an international competition that lasted over a year so that, and the private hospital you're talking about is half the size of the Bjelovar General Hospital is the same, and the international competition has given the company here from our Republic of Croatia from the neighbourhood, but the company from China also reported. So, the first appearance of a Chinese firm in such a big competition. As far as the amendments are concerned, I'll just remember that you promised to address the issue of hospital equipment by means of a state budget, and it's not in the state budget. So this amendment remains, so let's see if there's gonna be a promise that you made in the campaign but of course the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76644	Thank you. Now it's your turn, no more replicas, now it's Mrs. Grba Bujevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll, of course, talk about the health budget. When you look at that health budget, I'm just going to list some things that I really think are very important. Let's say 508 million kuna payments for the overtime of health workers we welcome that, we all hope, it should be done and completed or brought to an end to this story. The recovery and resilience mechanism has provided 219 million kuna in the position of the Ministry of Health, while the other millions are in hospital positions. The Solidarity Fund of the so-called Solidarity Fund. An earthquake of 728 million kuna, which includes the restoration of health infrastructure damaged in an earthquake space for the City of Zagreb, and health institutions in the Sisak-Moslavina area are resources at the position of the hospital in the state budget. From significant investments, we must remind ourselves that the state provides for a Clinical Hospital Center of Rijeka 124 million kuna, for the conclusion of a new hospital in Sušak, which is also to be welcomed. Pula General Hospital gets 44 million kunas of our assets from the state budget. The emergency intervention rate is 43 million kuna. This is extremely important for the health system because these are the means from which you can get what you can't predict could be broken down over the year in advance. I want to highlight and decentralised resources. Of the 350 million kunas, these are those funds that the state gives to the county to deploy to its health institutions owned by it. It should be pointed out that the means of treatment have increased according to specific rules. Namely, these are funds that raise the quality of care, for example this time innumerable persons treated in 4 hospital institutions Vrapce, Popovača, Ugljan and Rab. Also an item of prevention for addicts of 20 million kuna. It is an important operational programme of effective human potential with 70 million kunas because in health care it enables us to specialize in training, promote health and prevention of diseases, develop clinical guidelines and implement hospital accreditation is extremely important for the health system. What makes me even more happy is that this item has increased by 5 million kuna. This will significantly improve human health potential. It is important to mention one location called health logistics for the incident and crisis situations of 2 and a half million kuna. How do we know that we often experience such incident situations, starting with earthquakes, floods, all of what we had is an item that allows us to react spotlessly from it. A further operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion has provided 287 million to continue the construction of daily hospitals, the establishment of an emergency maritime medical service and for a children's hospital in Blato. When you say, what else does it make me particularly happy? When we compare investment in health prevention programmes this budget is higher by 4.4 million kuna compared to last year and now amounts to 17 and a half million kuna for us very important preventive programmes. Not for us in health care, but for all the people who live in our country. There's still a lot of it. I must admit that, of course, like everyone else, I would like these funds to be much bigger, but you'll agree that at a time like this, a pandemic would cost a lot of money, that one lying in a hospital because of Covid cost just as much money where the respirators were obtained. And all that was needed for the normal functioning of the health system in these difficult conditions is also good as it is, and of course it is for us in health care to prepare quality programs and participate in both recovery and other projects intended for the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76646	Thank you. Mr. Sacic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76647	Dear colleagues, listening to you have drawn what you think is positive and good, to go in favour of our Croatian health care. All of us who have been users of Croatian healthcare services in the last year can only, with great gratitude, talk about how these doctors, doctors, sisters, all the staff, chefs, care about our patients and ourselves, but what you didn't say today in that crown crisis how to increase these people's wages, how to somehow reward these people. That's the first one. Secondly, tonight you have "Open" which says that 4 billion kuna has been practically taken from the Ministry of Health. Third, we're talking about the coronary crisis, and at the same time, we're reducing the crown, we're reducing the resources, so give us a little bit about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76648	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76649	Thank you. I agree with you, health workers are a pillar of defence against covids, health workers are the most, the most bright point we have and health and not health care, sorry not to be unfair, so in the healthcare system they work without, and unhealthy workers without whom we in health care couldn't work at all. So that's our first line of defense from the covid. In this we agreed, the covid supplement is established, the covid supplement is existing, of course that everyone would like it to be bigger, but according to the possibilities I'm sure the state gave as much as it could at that time. This should be pursued and seen how there is still ways to reward healthcare professionals, not always all of them in money, health workers like other things, and the type of education and such expenditures that could certainly be achieved with little effort and will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76650	- Mrs. Crescent. Murganic. - Mrs. Crescent. Murganic And you're right, Mrs. Devereaux. [[Isn't it Ljubica?]] Maximchuk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76651	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76652	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76653	Dear colleagues, we can see that it continued with responsible financial management despite these demanding times, so we see an increase in the division of the Ministry of Labour, Pensions System, Family and Social Policy of 160 million kuna, the Central State Office for Demography of 150 million kuna, we also see an increase in the position of the Ministry of Education of 11.5%, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of 7.5%, almost all categories within the limits of possible, but in your debate you have looked back on preventive programmes, and I am pleased when it comes to improving the quality of health care that it continued to mean more in 2022. with activities related to research of environmental factors and carried out by the Public Health Office of Brod-Posavina County, and we know when air quality is at stake in the town of Slavonski Brod as important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76654	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76655	Thank you. My colleague, it is indeed from your area of your county a question which is also a matter of health care we consider very important. And that's what 411 million kunas were provided for for that project that you were just talking about. It was implemented in 2016, and during the implementation of the project it was shown that this project should actually be improved. This provides these resources, which means that a final assessment of the impact of pollution on Brodjan health will be made, and I think it is certainly what will include laboratory tests, medical examinations of your fellow citizens, and statistical processing of data and education of all stakeholders in order to really see the state and impact on the health of your fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76656	Now, indeed, ma'am. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76657	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, of course we are all proud of our health care professionals, especially doctors and very often, especially in this crown crisis we have given them public support and support. You were also the organizer and bearer of such a very good and commendable activity as a “supply for health” where emergency services to hospitals, or in front of doctors and medical staff, gave support and a desire for rapid healing to patients. When we talk about the special brand of Croatia in health care, which we are particularly proud of, they are transplants. Here we have excellent results regardless of all the problems in the equipment and what we often talk about, world-renowned and successful our transplant operations. Whether or not there is room and projected funds in the budget to be improves this activity? [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76658	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76659	Thank you, colleague Murganic. Yeah, it was a health clap for the sick and for that, it was a really good project. It will continue next Sunday and next Sunday and all week's adventures. And as far as transplants are concerned, it's really a brand of Croatian state, it's being held up and in the projection of the Ministry of Health budget are actually two positions. One is the National Transplant Programme with 500 thousand kuna and another position is co-operation with Eurotransplant 4.5 million kuna, which ensures that our fellow citizens are available on the Eurotransplant list and thus increases the fact that our fellow citizens are highly positioned on the list to the organ recipient or what they need me not to go into some details now. Thank you for that question, that's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76660	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, much has been said here in the Croatian Parliament, perhaps it has nothing to do with the budget or the things we are discussing. But this is the Croatian Parliament and all MPs have the right to speak in the way they think and so I'm going to use this replica not to look directly at the budget, but simply today is the day, so I think it's good to point out, today is World AIDS Day, I think it's something that the Ministry of Health should also talk about through its programs is also caring about these patients, so here you are as a health worker I want to ask you to refer to this day and what we do as the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76662	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76663	Thank you. My colleague, Dreven, spoke in individual speeches today, spoke freely about that day of the National Programme and the Day of Fight against HIV. When you look at the budget of the Ministry of Health, there is therefore a basic part of the budget for the purpose of HIV prevention, but there is also a step that is about half a million kuna, and it refers to, and that will be another 3.g. In advance, it refers to the establishment of a 3 new testing centre through testing of HIV patients, through counselling, education, and thus will significantly increase availability because 3 new centres, 3 are higher than we have now. That's great.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76664	- Mrs. Crescent. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76665	Thank you very much, Vice President. And colleagues of Grba Bujevic, you were talking about health care. I would say that these years it is the sector of all sectors, both the most important and the most important because indeed everyone needs to get the necessary healthcare, should continue to strengthen the health system, ensure the availability and effectiveness of health care for all our citizens. And so it's a good thing we had where to spend more than 20% of the health care budget. Namely, the importance and sacrifice of doctors and nurses and all, their staff, and in the past 5 years have been recognised. is an increased salary of around 24%, a covid add-on of 10% is secured, funds for overtime are secured, debts to wholesales have been settled and thus saved the functioning and smooth work of 165 health institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76666	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76667	Thank you, colleagues. You've actually said everything as an experienced economist you've said much nicer than I'd say as a doctor, but thank you for all the things you've counted. Health care professionals are doing their job. All those who work in health care, not only in hospitals and outside the hospital and doctors of family medicine and emergency medicine and public health, are all involved in this response and in fact many people welcome the measures already implemented by the government, this government of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76668	Mr. Kujundzic. Turn it off, please, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76669	Hey, Branka, Branka. Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, Grba Bujevic, all of us in the home budget when we do not have something to admit to ourselves that we are cowardly and that we do not have and that is the only way we can get out for the better. In your presentation and everything you said here, I don't know if that's exactly what you're thinking. I'm not going to be mean, but I'm going to ask a question, and I don't know what everyone who works in the health system will think when they hear you and your reference to this budget, actually what they're going to think about it. On the other hand, a nurse who works in an intensive treatment unit now in covid, do you know how much increase she got in three months? 200 kuna, 70 kuna a month, I won't even mention the consumer basket, I'll just ask you next. Do you think in this budget health care is a priority and should it be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76670	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76671	The budget makes clear how much resources are available, the draft budget makes it clear how much resources are intended for healthcare. If it were a peaceful situation, if there were no covids, it would surely be more relevant for communication and more relevant to see what is actually done. But we need to be aware that a large part of the funds goes to the treatment of covid patients. That's it now, that's it all over the world. The day on the respirator costs a lot, a day in the intensive care unit costs a lot, a day in the department costs a lot, and that they're cut off healthcare workers that they need everything together in any way that can increase their at least feeling that they're rewarded for what they're doing because they're doing an extremely difficult job in that I don't think they're just hospital doctors and nurses. We have to agree that other healthcare system participants are taking the burden of this crisis as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76672	Thank you, we've exhausted the replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Zeljko Sacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76673	Good evening.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76674	Good evening, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76675	It's just Mr. Poop is missing, isn't it? I welcome you all, the respected Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Maric, I see you're already fat in the red, you're already on the reservation, but it's expected for you and you have the strength. So, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, I can only express myself, and in my individual case, we have, in particular, been focusing on budget items relating to the Ministry of Justice and Administration, especially on the State Attorney's Office, which I have already spoken about today, and here we have seen several incomprehensible discrepancies with the public policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and financial support, the means that are being provided, and we can say a little bit, and we expect certain explanations of food and, for example, the DORH and the main state attorney, we have had the opportunity to listen to some day here, her cry, her appeal to enable her to work, provide funds for material technical information, official vehicles, equipment, ITs, financiers with special knowledge of financial investigations of this, and now we see that this appeal is not only unheard but it is simply amazing that we have come from the items of State's attorneyship of 202 and some 20 million in thePlan. It's a great questionnaire for us, we don't know what's going on, and we know that jobs are increasing these tasks and so on, of course, the State's Attorney's Office is a pillar of this society and it actually cares about key security conditions, stability. Also looking further at those items, we have seen that for the County State Attorney's Office not enough in comparison, we have some increases, but in relation to the needs and those requirements that should be met in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the County State Attorney's Office, as many as 15 of them as they have been established in Croatia cannot provide everything with these modest means, and then we come again to listen to the moaning of the next, major state attorney, the chief state's attorney, that he simply does not have the means to carry out all tasks in due time and or to take advantage of the enthusiasm and tremendously great efforts of the employees who do so despite these great difficulties. Also in that item, almost the same argument, but even more so, it refers to the division of USKOK, which, where we have seen that, at 28, with 29 million kuna, has been strengthened in this 2020 by financial resources, one of their internal budgets to 30 million and something, which is all expensive if we see that one whole section of these people in charge of these financial ones, I apologize, the research is not complete. The Minister does not allow them to work, i.e. the coefficients and wages are far below the average they receive in their branch in the Republic of Croatia or outside the Republic, so there should be additional effort, additional energy, additional sensitivity, to find these people, and that with additional benefits and this, support, we animated them to do this job, otherwise the whole anti-crime construct, the most complex forms will not be effective. Anything else I can say more, from personal experience, and to you, Mr. Vice-President of the Government and all, please give me to Remetic, for two years I've been saying, put on some containers, it may be a order of 56, 60 thousand kuna, for those people who, families, children, come, neither guilty nor debtors, innocent by the Constitution or law, to visit Mrs. Gabriela Žalac or any Minister of State, to any man in the Republic of Croatia, that he may not actually be punished, must wait 4, 5 hours Well, come on, it's not a big investment. [[Intruder Furio Radin: Time, Time Mr. Sacic.]] Do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76676	Mr. Sacic, we'll stay when he gets here, okay, thank you very much. Mr. Jure Bourkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76677	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the whole day, and we went into the evening, we're discussing the 2022 Budget Proposal and the 2023 and 2024 projections. As we heard in the opening statement, this is essentially the seventh budget proposed by the government under HDZ under the leadership of Andrej Plenkovic, and this budget, like the other 6 so far, is the opposition, which has characterized the bohemian as a bloated, unreal, insufficient, naughty, and just before we heard and understood and unmistakable, immoderately optimistic. You've found a hundred regrets, rarely, I think no one has given a passing estimate of the opposition to this budget, and as if you've forgotten how the past six budgets have gone. The past six budgets this government has proposed and the Parliament adopted on its shoulders have also endured crises such as Agrokor, Petrochemy, Shipyards, floods, earthquakes, global crises caused by the Koron virus pandemic. And the results of all the 6 state budgets are that however credit agencies have raised credit ratings from the garbage label to an investment rating with positive growth prospects. The result also, over the past 6 state budgets, however small they seem, but they have been recorded, and an increase in pensions, an increase in average salaries, an increase in social care, culture, science, agriculture, defenders, police, in other words preparations for entering Schengen have been completed. The past budgets have also struggled with the large and unrecorded consequences of the Koron virus pandemic so as to ensure more than 40 billion kuna to address these damages. The past budgets have made it possible to finally make a decision on the procurement of new, multi-purpose combat aircraft, so far no one has had the courage to do so. In addition to all that the past budgets have endured, we must also point out that the revenue side accounts have already been set for 4 rounds of tax reforms. The experience that this government has in the past 6 years, in overcoming the crisis, I think it gives it the right to say that the proposed state budget is a requirement, but realistic, and in spite of the demanding financial circumstances in the coming period, will continue with responsible public finances management in order to reduce macroeconomic imbalances, which is a prerequisite for a healthier and sustainable economic recovery and growth of Croatia as well as for the introduction of the euro that will also contribute to the resilience of the Croatian economy. On this road, the NPOO will provide new development steps, help to recover from the health, social and economic consequences of the pandemic, and will contribute to the restoration of Zagreb and its surroundings, as well as Banovina. So GDP growth, the recovery of the pandemic economy with the withdrawal of funds from the EU will ensure income stability while expenditure remains planned and under control. It's for me no matter how I look at a good state budget. Maybe that budget won't actually satisfy the individual desires of each of us, but it will satisfy the needs of most of us. And what the budget forecasts to achieve next year is that you will recognise more and more quality than what the budgets have predicted so far. All these criticisms that come from my colleagues in the opposition are clear to me and it is their right to criticise, but those who have been in a position of opposition to propose their own budgets and manage the country, so they have not really shown up or celebrated themselves. I do, for example. I can't remember that the opposition found the funds and built the Peljeski bridge, and the HDZ government did. And I also believe that this budget, too, of what it predicted and realized, and I believe that after this year and in the budget for 2023, the budget will be bigger and stronger, the opposition will yell at it, and it will be realized. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76678	Mr. Totgergeli, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76679	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you mentioned the credit rating that went out of the trash to Croatia in the investment BBB after Fitch. You also mentioned buying a plane. I'm interested in your opinion, actually. I kind of have a feeling, and that's what the prime minister mentioned in the debate that it's actually the most important for a credit rating that we really need stability. It is this government through the budget and the attitude towards fiscal policy that shows one responsibility and shows stability and shows constant trends. However, how much does the purchase of aircraft affect our future credit rating?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76680	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76681	I thank you for asking. The very acquisition of multi-purpose fighter aircraft, as you know, is our obligation to NATO membership to meet 2% of GDP by investing in defence. What brings us more than that, I think to the entire citizen a sense of security and since we are not Switzerland who has not remembered the war in the last 500 years, we are the country that well remembered the last bloody Homeland War when we were exposed to brutal aggression by neighbouring Serbia, and therefore I think that it means good to all of us here, and it is good to ensure that we all get a new squadron of multi-purpose combat planes. However, it also means one safer climate and investment in investors and the entire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76682	- Mrs. Crescent. Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76683	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad you mentioned the Pelješki bridge, since you know for yourself that most of the Peljega Bridge has just been built with money from EU funds, and it was the SDP government that put the project into operational programmes itself and I'm glad you praised the SDP government. Secondly, you're saying that the opposition is constantly criticizing today's budget that it's not good, that it's not developed, that it's unrealistic. And I'm asking you, do you think, I'm just going to say one item parallel to another, do you think, would you estimate that a good budget is the one in which you have, for example, the information of the tax administration worth 185 million kuna, if we look at the previous year, it was 20 million kuna, and at the same time you have an item of 3.5 million kuna on the side of the Fund for Co-financing of medicines that unfortunately use children today who need some experimental treatment, do you estimate that such a budget is a good budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76684	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76685	I thank you for asking. Do not mention SDP and investment and withdrawal from European funds. Even your former Prime Minister Milanovic admitted that he had failed to do so. The SDP has to do with the Peljek Bridge as well as I don't know about any street in Pula, nothing. If he could have stopped, he would have stopped. As far as the budget is concerned, I still say this is a good and balanced budget. Incomes are based on real macroeconomic indicators, 6.g. The experience of this government and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance has shown that all expenditures remain within the limits of planned, even in spite of challenges such as the world pandemic of the coronary virus, earthquakes and all others. If the tax administration is, in specific details, I can't remember how long she was this year, how much she'll have next year for digitization. Our health care has endured the pandemic of the coronary virus, and I believe that in 2022 it will continue to fight successfully with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76686	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Hope Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76687	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We listened to a lot of debate and praise and criticism today about this budget for the next year with projections for the next two years and, of course, it was said that social development was balanced, fair, and it was also said that it was not all expensive. Of course, each of us has chosen a subject in an individual debate that he wants to specifically address or draw attention to, so I would also talk about social care, namely the fees shown in financial amounts in our budget. A few days ago, we had a debate on the Social Care Act, which stated that the law itself, as it is said, would weigh billions and a few million kunas, and it will primarily be in the first year of 806 million kuna and most of the 479 million will be related to social benefits. Part of the social benefits are increasing and these are guaranteed minimum fees, amounting to 216 million kuna from the current 800 million, 800 kuna, the base will be 1,000 kuna, with the cumulative for more family users increasing from 100 to 150% of gross minimum wage. The guaranteed minimum fee has indeed not been increased since 2013 and is now provided for in this Act. The fees directed towards the protection of persons with disabilities are an increase in 2018, however, their amount in the annual budget is constantly increasing, as well as extras for other people's care and assistance and an increase of 151 million, i.e. 137 million, and that is because there is easier and greater availability of these fees, on the one hand, we must sincerely acknowledge that we have an increasing population and more chroniclers, chronically sick persons and certainly need these support. The status of parents and carers as well as foster care and supplies is increased for those who are located in foster care. What I especially like to point out are some of the fees that we say have a demographic sign, these are maternity and parental benefits, which in the term of past the Government, i.e. increased twice, i.e. now since 1 August, will be increased by an amendment of the Law three times. The parental fee has been promised to go towards de-mining, of course the amount found in 2017 and not increased from 9 years, from 2 600 kuna to 3 999 kuna, then to 5 652 kuna and at 22 years is planned to be 7,500 kuna and it is almost more than the average salary and I think that a large part of our parents will be covered in the full amount of their salary and in some ways it will be a de-mining. Fatherly leave of 10 days in full funding for full pay has also been provided, and I think with these policies, the Republic of Croatia has shown its policy, the coherence of family and business life, equal parenting and presence, especially women, in the labour market. And to end, perhaps from these measures, I particularly like it, this is a follow-up measure, which is intended for those municipalities and units of local self-government, assisted area, 1st and 2nd group of development indices, as a programme to support municipalities to maintain and organise pre-school education with 500 kuna help for housing in kindergartens per child, and it will be 26 million, in the plan of 60 programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76688	Thank you. Mr. Pavić, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76689	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Murganic, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, here you are, Minister of Social Affairs, you know how hard it was to get extra money, now you've said 800 million kuna extra in the following year, and not including European funds and different aspects of social inclusion. In addition to them are European funds, some of them are kindergartens for a coherent life that you and you have started. There are also many resources available from the European pillar of social rights through the European Social Fund. Therefore, criticism that this budget is not social, that we spent on planes, and we didn't give it to the most vulnerable, absolutely doesn't stand, and if you can give a review like, here's the former minister once again how the social one is represented in the budget next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76690	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76691	Social activity is a really complex activity. There are numerous users, our citizens who depend naturally on the care and help of the state and for them should always be the means and it is visible through these numerous and different social benefits. Of course, there are also important, numerous services, accommodation and accommodation facilities on the one hand, and on the other hand investment in both personnel and equipment, and generally institutions, institutions that are all budget users. When we talk about the social care of some of our citizens, we should certainly also take care and thus stimulate, but also commend the units of local, regional self-government that they have in their many social programmes also envisaged support for our citizens, and this is all tied up through the application of social care and I think the low probability of abuse of these benefits is, although it is often mentioned in the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76692	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76693	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Murganic. You talked about social security, social security, and this is a really important aspect, since we know that the risk of poverty in Croatia is about 18.4%. There are about 600,000 users in the social care system. When talking about the elderly population, pensioners, it should be recalled that the payment of Covid bonus for pensioners below 4000 is possible. This resulted in 710 thousand pensioners, and about 460 million kunas were allocated to them. In addition, in order to allow income to older people who could not provide otherwise, the so-called national compensation for older people in excess of 800 kuna was introduced. In five years, the average pension increased by 432 kuna and in August was 2,806 kuna. The 5% increase was in 4 years, and despite the circumstances, the total increase was 18%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76694	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76695	Thank you very much. When we talk about older people, especially users of any form of pension, we do not need to look at them in the context of social care, because they have, thanks to their past work, achieved the right to retire. Of course, we always point out, and that is the fact that these pensions in the vast majority are relatively low and the average pension very often cannot meet the basic needs of the pensioners. And that is why certain rights can also be exercised from the social care system through legal regulations and through various possibilities. I especially point out the possibility, and often due to age, due to chronic illness, because of reduced mobility, pensioners use both personal disability and extras for other people's care and help. These are financial resources that certainly make it easier for them to organise their daily needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76696	Thank you. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76697	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleague Murganic. This trend of raising hope, however, is certainly not something that we should boast about here. As the person who adopted three children, this system is embarrassing, and you know it, just like I do. If we're talking about fostering, isn't it a shame that the foster home payment was 800 kuna for three children, 2,400 kuna? It's now rising to 4,000 kuna. Do you feel that this is really something that one should boast about? Okay, let's welcome things that change for the better, but it's far from any form of praise. Is it normal for you to be in a country where in the adopted three children who are administratively new people there is no possibility of paying child benefits if their biological parents used it? Is it really something that we here should brag about that the average pension is 2 806 kuna and the average consumer basket costs more than 6,500 kuna? Excuse me. [[/Intruder: Furio Radin: Thank you. Mr. Kujundzic, I don't enter the case, but time.]] I'm glad you're still accurate at that age and you see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76698	Not exactly, I think one 15 seconds you've been, I've been very precise. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76699	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I don't know if you've ever been able to feel any sort of elation or praise or any special pleasure from my exposure. I like to point out, and I'm particularly glad, and with that I'm proud of it, 38 years I've been active in the welfare system, and I also like to say that a lot of grief, grief, misery was in front of my eyes and I still like to point out that I have, I haven't numbed and I have this amount of compassion and all of what you've said is facts, and so are the facts that I've been saying. Yeah, we have a wide set and a service, we have a wide set of fees, and our citizens are using it. If that's enough, it's not. But this shows that we're going in a trend of growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76700	Thank you. Mrs. Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76701	Thank you. Well, I'm glad you're talking about the trend of growth. We can see that in the budget next year and in the next projections 40 million kunas are secured for the hospital in Mostar, 40 million kuna for the University of Mostar, while our universities and hospitals are patching up the end. At the same time, the personal disability remains a miserable 1,500 kuna. I am also asking you as a former minister and as a person who, you have now said, for 38 years you have worked in social services, are you ashamed of the amount of personal disability, which is once again proposed by your Government in the Budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76702	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76703	Dear colleagues. I have nothing to be ashamed of, for anything that this government has proposed in the Budget. I can also tell you that these fees would have been much higher if the previous governments had left much larger amounts, or larger foundations. Personal disability hasn't changed along with the care allowance and aid years before that, some haven't changed in nine years, I mean specifically on parental compensation, before we took over social care, that is, this government. As far as the hospitals you mentioned are concerned, I think it is clear that we have a constitutional obligation to help all services and institutions used by Croats in our neighbouring country, and I think it is also our pride, not our shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76704	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you, Mrs. Murganic. And now it's Mrs. Caroline Vidovic-Kristo's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76705	Ladies and gentlemen. This draft budget, without any doubt, can be called a budget for the parting of the Croatian state and the relocation of Croatian citizens. Because when in a country that is of all international relevant institutions characterized by corruption as asphyxiation, you place for the National Anti-Corruption Programme 16 thousand kuna, and for a body called the Committee for Fiscal Policy a million and 600 thousand kuna, it is clear that Croatia is managed in a senseless and destructive way. For what does this commission serve and serve whom? I suppose it serves to get someone a high salary, but Croatian citizens and Croatian states have no use for that body. At the same time, the government, amounting to 16 thousand kuna to fight corruption, clearly says it is panickingly afraid of transparency. We have the fact that we are also extremely low wages in the health care system, in the police, in the IRS, in science, and this budget is completely ignored. You give Croatian citizens money in great style to different associations. For example, we also see the budget in the Ministry of Culture as the main platform for media corruption. In this way, Plenkovic's government makes it clear that he is blindly continuing the policy of systematic corruption and protecting it. Because if we had free media in Croatia, there would be no such thing as a government and key powers. If the media were working in the interest of the truth and the public, then we'd have an Austrian script and a government fall. The level of corruption in Croatia would not bear either Qatar, nor Saudi Arabia, to which money is coming out of the country. States such as Croatia can, in international competition, be imposed through the aim of encouraging those social branches that can be internationally competitive, which is unequivocally science. Because in science there is an expression of personal ability and it doesn't matter if your name is Hans, John, or Francis. And how much this government cares about science we see on salaries at the Ruđer Bošković Institute and generally in education and science. They're shamelessly low, and they encourage migration. I'm familiar with the case of a Croatian citizen who absorbed American Harvard but couldn't get a job in Croatia for months. One of his e-mails was enough to get a job in Switzerland. Unfortunately, in Croatia, the rule is important to who you know, not how much you know. And that's poison to the future and to the development of a society. We should also encourage our national specialities. We have a situation that in the German famous store KDV on the shelves of the tower, which states the product of Slovenia, and in our current budget, the Government provides an item on support for agricultural clusters at the height of the shameful and ridiculous millions of kunas. And it is precisely products such as cool, Dalmatian wines Plavac or Istrian Malvasia, Držnik Pršut or Istrian truffles, olive oil etc. The country should be trained through clusters to perform on world markets. But this government, it does not feel Croatia. Her suffering, aspirations and desires of the Croatian people mean nothing to her. Because if it meant something to her then she would have long since abolished financial support for a scandalous pamphlet called "News" that celebrates the genocide in Srebrenica, pays for the Serbian landscape and systematically insults the victims of the Homeland War. There is no state in the world that finances its own insult and humiliation. But that is why this government has not failed to reduce the amount of children's clinic in Zagreb as well as the means to implement the measures of family policy that it has brought down from 8 to 5 million kuna. Croatian families and children are not a priority to this government. Which is what the Croatian government and the powerful are ordering with this budget. They say we will have one of the highest VAT in Europe, of course, for the ordinary world, because powerful men ride on yachts with ministers and how much they pay taxes nobody knows alive. The fact that Croatia does not charge almost anything in the context of criminal taxes is evidence that in Croatia tax evasion has protection in the ruling policy. But you failed the Croatian Government's history test because no injustice ever lasted forever. In Croatia, we will ensure the rule of law, equality before the law, and we Croats will no longer be a second-rate nation in Europe. Then taxes will be lower, pay enormously more, and you, the Croatian police will not drive you anymore but will drive you away.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76706	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Marko Pavić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76707	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Here we are all day discussing and hearing about next year's budget. We are also discussing the economic situation, the crisis that hit us with both covid and the earthquake. But what encourages exactly this GDP growth of a minimum of 9% this year. When we look at the second quarter, 16.5%, third quarter 15.8%. A total of 10.7% so far and we have the largest GDP growth in the EU. When compared to the crisis which is... In 2008, when we were recovering until 2016, we recovered here in less than two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second one behind us is France with 8.1% and that's not an accident. I know that the opposition likes to say that all good things happened by momentum, and that we in power are all bad things responsible. But this is not a random result. And when we compare ourselves to the rest of the countries, we see that we have among the best indicators. And why is that? Well, the first thing is that we stood strong behind Croatian citizens, entrepreneurs in the protection of jobs. 12 and a half billion kuna, 700,000 jobs protected. That's how we made sure we could have a record tourist season. The other thing is that we planned the measures well, so that we could open up to the tourist season. The same attempt is now being made by Austria, which introduces an absolute lockdown before the ski season, but unfortunately, the virus spreads more easily in winter when the weather is colder and the question is whether it will succeed, and Croatia has succeeded. The season we had is 80% of the level 2019. The third thing is a significant acceleration of the use of European funds. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When we're here and I'm talking about paying off the budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When we came to power, 7 billion kuna was in the budget for European projects, 2020. 17 billion. This year after the rebalancing, it grew by nearly 7 billion to 23.6 and next year, in 2022, it increased by 8 and a half billion to 32 billion kuna. Therefore, the support given to citizens is a quality preparation of covid measures and the opening of a successful season, and the European funds that have taken a swing are key components of development and that we have been able to translate such good results into the budget for next year. 164.5 billion kuna income, 173.8 billion expenditure, which is almost 500 million kuna more than the Rebalans when we, the rebalance projections when we discussed it. This should also include one part of the EU funds that could not yet be planned, and will be included over the year when operational programmes are adopted. Croatia has 25 billion euros at its disposal in the next 10 years, and yet it is not some coincidence, it is not a follow-up, I personally participated in the negotiations, we should have got 2 billion less than we had so far, and we got a total of 2 and a half times more. The budget will certainly need to be counted when operational programmes and projects are adopted that will start at the end of the year, but what is a total of 25 billion euros. When we talk about the planes, or the Rafals that we signed and paid for this year 2.2 billion kuna, we've heard a lot of criticism from the opposition about how many hospitals, schools, kindergartens could be built instead. And the answer is nothing. And why nothing? Because NATO's obligation is to invest 2% of GDP in security. If we weren't planes, we'd have to go to something else. So those who say we could do something else should basically tell the public that they are against NATO and that they want Croatia out of NATO, and these planes and deterrents their strength is a clear message to investors for the next 30 years that this is a safe country, integrated and that they can invest here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76708	The first replica, Mrs. Radovolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76709	Hello, Vice President. I'm glad you brought up these billions of EU funds. I notice that depending on how a representative of the ruling speaks, these billions are only growing. First they were 22, now they are 25, I believe that as former EU fund minister you know well that they are not all grants. We have 12.7 billion grants at our disposal, these other assets are from the NPOO and some loans, so they are not funds that someone will fly over the Croatian plane and just throw them at us. But I'm glad you're boasting, so I'd ask you. If we're going to get all these billions, now you've said 25 billion euros, then Croatia will get, which is why there's no money in the budget for any, I'd say maybe more necessary things to be asked for. For example, assistants in schools are paid 2 and a half thousand kuna a month and their internship is interrupted in summer. It was said when we submitted the amendments, there was no money. You do not want to reduce the tax due to the menstrual poverty in Croatia to hygienic supplies, you said there is no money. Now you're saying we're gonna get 25 billion euros, so all our problems are solved. [[Invader Furio Radin: Mrs Radolović, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76710	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76711	Thank you, dear colleague Radolovic. So I'm surprised by your ignorance of the first knowledge of European funds. The vast majority of these funds are irrevocable. Yeah, so let me explain. Not so no, 25 billion euros are distributed to 14.7 billion multi-annual financial frameworks, 85% grants. After that, we have 10 billion euros in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme 6.3 billion grants and then we have the Solidarity Fund 800 million euros, 100% grants. So that's the first thing. And as much as you were Social Democrats, as much as you're calling on the welfare board, I think here's your government, here's Mr. Bauk now going to give the replica has raised the minimum wage for 11 kuna. And then you're calling for some social, social democracy, social issues, and here we are, former Murganic said, next year 800 million kunas from the state budget alone without EU projects in the social sector are investing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76712	Time. Mr. Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76713	Thank you. My colleague Pavić, this is already about 12 budgets, 13 in the Parliament. Four were from the government position, and these seven, eight were from the opposition position. And I've never been over any amendments. However, Absolutely, here's one of the brothers. [[Intruder Marko Pavić: I thought you had a brother-in-law.]] So, from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, a firehouse is funded, with 20.5 million kuna, of which the European Union will give 14.5 and this from domestic funds is somewhere 6. And a home will be built, and there is no road to the House. And now look, when the HDZ Club amendment is adopted that vehicles can be free, fire-fighting, ferry-driving, those who come to Brač won't be able to go to the Firehouse, they won't help us fly. I have submitted an amendment to the Office of the President of the Republic to take down 2 million kunas and to take up the road to the Fire House, so here is the light of how the Prime Minister at the current morning invited me to open my eyes, and I have listened to it, and I hope you will advocate to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76714	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76715	Comrade Bauk, here I am, giving you support in that direction. I am glad that the SDP sees President Milanovic and believes it is too much for him and that you would give it to Brac, so I believe that Minister Maric will consider the amendment, I cannot specifically say, but I am glad that you have seen it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76716	Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76717	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague, I didn't understand if this was from the position of Prime Minister and the president of the state is being removed. But my replica goes in the other direction, namely, you're a good baratate, you're a physicist, you're a mathematician with numbers, so maybe you can just say here briefly and clearly, how much funds are agreed from the European Funds until we arrive, so until the arrival of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic in 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76718	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76719	Thank you very much. So the data is next. Until, therefore, the arrival of Mr. Oreshkovic's government was agreed on 6% and zero was paid. With our coming to power, the agreement was 9%, payment 1%, and now 123%, paid 63%, and certified, therefore verified by Brussels 50%. So, half of the funds Brussels has checked for us, approved, and that's what we've been through in the last six months, and now we're about half of the EU's list of states for exploitation, and once again I'm saying that this is our first envelope, other countries like Denmark, like Belgium, which are now behind us for use are very long-term users of EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76720	- Mrs. Crescent. Sanja Radolovic needs to be given a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76721	I thank the Honorable Vice President, the representative has injured an officer. 238. It deceives both the Croatian public and all of us here in the assembly, including you, well knows that it is not agreed and not paid 0% of the funds, but forgets to mention that on the threshold of entry in 2022, this government has actually paid only 50% of the EU funds, although the operational period should have already been over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76722	Thank you very much. Let's not be alarmed because it was a replica and now Mr. Totgergeli. Here you go. No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76723	It's a shame, Mr. Vice President, not to take a good opportunity to warn. Art. 238, fellow Pavic, let's watch it this way. In our government 0 days in custody, and your days at least 20 days in detention for the Minister of the EU funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76724	Comrade Bauk And let's watch like this, you have a warning. [[Applause.]] Mr. Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76725	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing the 2022 Budget and the 2023 and 2024 projections for a long time now, and I think that somehow the taste of this whole debate in me should be that it is actually the most important stability and responsible behaviour towards state finances, which is, from the data that we have talked about here today, we can overly and argued that the continuity that the government, the former HDZ government had from 2016 to 2019, has actually made it possible to actually respond well to the Covid crisis, and then to the reactions that occurred after 2020, where we now have GDP growth and the fall of public debt and the overall stability that citizens in some way confirm and every time they are being surveyed and supported by the HDZ and HDZ government. Today, since the opposition, we tend to listen to all the opposites and try to show that this is not the case, however, it is obviously not the case with citizens. I come from Bjelovarska-Bilogorska County and I must admit that I have experience with how it treated the county budget, and precisely because in the past time our former mayor, and today our fellow parliamentary representative has made decisions that now we have the situation of having 199 million kuna credits, and we have no means to repay that loan, among other things, when we talked through the replica about the construction of a Belarusian hospital, it is true that 282 million kunas are contracted to build this building without, parts without almost all the equipment, because the construction itself is 172 million, but then you have added design to make it possible to do so, so you have supervision, so this, and this, in the end, it still comes to the agreed 10 million kunas for which are not provided through the loans to pay for it, and so that in general, the health system of Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County can function as well as it is so normally, I have been able to pay a total amount of money in the city for the next 5 years. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76726	Thank you. Stay, Mr. Byce will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76727	When we talk about health care, I hope we agree, although not everyone, the HDZ of Bjelovar-Bilogor County certainly does not, but healthcare needs modern facilities. In areas from the 19th or 18th century, it's hard to do operations, I'd say it's more for museums than health care. Yeah, we're headed into it, not that we've done in this case just a general hospital, we've done projects related to music school, the centre of competence and a lot of other things. And the 55 schools that we restored and... speak for themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the repayment of the loan, of course it's contracts and it's written on the county's pages and you know it well. But it's more important to you, so I'm glad you submitted the amendment because in this budget that has over 2,000 pages and weighs 184 billion kuna, in fact the Bjelovarko-Bilogor County has not been mentioned once.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76728	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76729	So now you've denied yourself because you've already said that a fast road was mentioned, but let's go back to what we've replicated to each other about. So, the music school builds, you build, but you didn't provide at all the funds to pay for that contract you contracted, that's about 30 million kuna. Then when you mentioned schools, you allowed through cash pulling another 30 million kuna of additional debt, so that these schools could work at all, which also secured her from where she would return. And then we come at the end of the hospital, where HDZ is the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, as well as the HDZ all over Croatia, and our prime minister, was never against building a hospital and that's your spin that you've been saying all along, but quite the opposite, but within normal and rational borders, just as the Bjelovar-Bilogor County needs it. Now we have a situation that we have and again, who's going to get away with the crisis? Again, HDZ, which is why we have this amendment and we have President Plenkovic who has promised to help us get that loan back, and of course later and put it into office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76730	Thank you. You don't have a replica. Mr. Ivanovic's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76731	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my exposure. I'll start with congratulations. Mr. Kujundzic left, I'm sorry. The man adopted three children. Great. I saw them, live in the same building where I live and really something nice to see one such family in a completely different way and here I want to congratulate him and, of course, wish him a lot of health and happiness both to him and his children. The second card goes to the Minister of Finance. We can talk here from morning till night. I've been, I've been following the debate since this morning of half past ten, so here I am, and I think that Mr. Maric, no matter what anyone thinks about him, has been creating this one better Croatia in continuity, of course, with the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, and I have no personal or two-room benefit from it. I say that as a man who travels from his Vladimirs to Zagreb every week and watches certain ends develop in the last 4 or 5 years, and until then we've camped somewhere in place. Is it enough, if it's a lot, if it could be better for sure. But I think we have conditions and preconditions for this better Croatia, especially for that part of eastern Croatia from which I come, for our Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem who certainly deserve to be an end that can run Croatia. I'm gonna say a few things that I think are important. This is agriculture as a driver of the economy especially in our part of our beautiful country and say that here is the Ministry of Agriculture and through its rural part and through this basic part of the agriculture budget is somewhere around 8.6 billion kuna. We have not abolished any measure, not one support that goes in favor of our peasants who sincerely and honestly want to live from their work. There were all kinds of stories here that were both accurate and incorrect. Measure 741 is certainly one of the better measures that has taken place over the past 3 years. Over 230 kindergartens were built, and hundreds of social homes were built, fire storage facilities. It's a country life. What else can happen in the country if there is no voluntary fire company, if there is no social home and no kindergarten? We will not launch a demographic reconstruction of Croatia without the construction of kindergartens in every village. I was at Will's kindergarten opening three days ago. Villavo is one small place in the space of Osijek-Baranja County. They opened a kindergarten. Forty-two children from Villa will go to that kindergarten. Those are the measures we need. That's all someone's got through the budget. It was all planned in the budgets not only for this 2022, but also for 21st, 19th, 18th, and I think it's more than good. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan also contributes to the area from which I come not only through the Council for Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, but also through part of tourism particularly continental tourism. It's something that's certain in Slavonia, Baranja and Sreme the potential that hasn't been used enough and that could be used. After all, it must be used because I think there lies that part of the story that we want to tell, which is that the healthy food produced by our producers ends up right on tables that will be consumed by tourists who come not only to us in Slavonia, but also to the Adriatic. So at the end of all this, I don't talk much about numbers, it wasn't my intention, but maybe to tell those who don't know enough. In order to have a chance to put together a budget, you have to win the election. There's no budget here if you haven't won and you get a chance to show what you know and the way you're going to do it. The Croatian Democratic Union has received the trust of Croatian voters. It does the budget as it thinks best for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so to you ministers, Prime Minister, all the people in the ministries who care about having a better Croatia I want to say one big thank you for what they do, and everything else is just the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76732	Thank you very much. Stay. Mrs. Dragon's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76733	Thank you. We heard a lot about the 2022 draft budget in the debates today by the opposition that it is unrealistic, that it is cosmetic, that it is bad, that it is not developed, and from your presentation we have heard a lot of positive and what we have found to be facts and realistic. So here I and you are from Slavonia, and we know how much the project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema has helped us with our investments in our area, and thus we have righted some injustice towards our citizens in our area. Here is this budget for 2022, and also in the 2023 and 24 projections a new programme is planned, a new activity Programme of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in the amount of 50 million kuna for each year, so please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76734	Thank you. Here's a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76735	Thank you. It may also be nice to hear about the citizens of Lipik these 50 million kunas in this particular position will be for the restoration of Ergela in Lipik. The Ergela in Lipik, along with the one in Djakov, is certainly a public institution that will contribute to the development of Lipik as the end that was killed in the Homeland War and can certainly give them the chance to make little progress and in this tourist sense it shows the ergel in Đakov that was restored, built-up closed yahaon and Đakovo no longer looks the same with the ergel before and with the ergel he now has. Therefore, the advice for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and these projects, too, are in favour of exactly what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76736	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76737	Thank you very much. So here you have just come from a respected colleague to talk about the importance of living in Slavonia and DVD homes and developing jobs, so I'd just like to remind you a little of all the projects that we've launched from the program "Wished" two billion kuna, over 15,000 women employed. From the programme for the revitalisation of public space just to fill such DVD homes with programs, participation areas. From the fact that older citizens there can get active aging, i.e. different training programs or any way of integrating them. Many social programmes implemented for social inclusion. So it's all the same reflected in the budget, but when they see you, the rough numbers don't see it, and just what you said was that DVD, no life without a DVD, reminded me of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76738	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76739	Thank you very much. Older people, and let's be honest, Croatia has more and more older people every day. The "Learning" programme is one of the better projects that happened in the Republic of Croatia. If you talk a little bit to those people who use the services of the people who come to their homes, you'll see that it's something that just can't be stopped and that's my suggestion and the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. Let's not interrupt this program because it's extraordinary, it's good, it's twice as useful. Old and powerless who are not visited by anyone, and on the other hand, all those who are over 50 and over are given the opportunity to do more internships and thus earn a well - deserved pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76740	Thank you. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague, Ivanovic, I don't know if we're coming from the same Slavonia? You say what can happen if you don't have a social home. So here's what I'm going to tell you. I can be a job, maybe be a country, maybe be a future. Or, say, fountains in Nasice in a new square that's open at the beginning of the year, and it's not working now. Here's the future of Slavonia and Baranja. You say continental tourism. So how many tourists were there in the Ladimirs? How long was it in Ruscino? How long was it in the Harkans? How much was in the Sistine chapel of Slavonia that we forgot. You say HDZ won in Slavonia. Well, he's a colleague. And what are the results? They're the results of a bunch of people leaving. They're the results of that new list, so we'll see how many, how many people the Osijek-Baranja County has left. Yeah, that's the results. I agree with that. And that's about, say, this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76742	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76743	Well, here's the answer. Domagoj Hajduković here is a man who comes from the same area and that is what makes me a sad man who comes from the same area, and we look through the completely diametric focus of Domagoj and I. He knows well that many projects have happened in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, Vukovar-Srijemska and Brod-Posavina and Požeko-Slavonska and there is no dispute. That's evidence. Let's take a look at a Pleternica, see at the end any small town in Slavonia, Baranja and Sreme, and you'll see what you're talking about. You don't like HDZ that's your right, you fight HDZ and I don't mind that. But to say that nothing happened, that by 2014, we had almost 30% of the unemployed in the Osijek-Baranja County area now reduced to 12%. And you say you don't see anything there. I see shifts, I go around the field, you see us everywhere and I tell them in the first person.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76744	Mr. Hajdukovic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if I give him a warning sooner or later. I'll do it later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76745	Vice-President, I cannot simply accept the qualification of my colleague Ivanovic. Article 238 has been injured. He says I don't like HDZ. No, no, no. I don't like the corruption of colleagues, and from the Pleternica we started the project Slavonia, hotels on the Adriatic, etc. So, please don't, we don't have a correction to an incorrect quote. I have nothing against HDZ, I have against corruption, and now you conclude the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76746	I will. Wait, you can't answer that. Excuse me. But I have to give a warning because it was a replica. And a real replica, Mr. Mandaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76747	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We come from the same place, somehow we Slavons caught up with you. Well, I can't rely on previous replicas, so I might also remind you of the huge investment in entrepreneurial zones, entrepreneurial incubators, in tourist infrastructure. You will probably agree with me, Mr Ivanovic, that the tourist numbers, i.e. tourist arrivals in Osijek and Baranja, Đakovo, in Podunavlje, unlike I don't know back maybe ten years significantly increased and there are differences. I see them, and I think you see them. In fact, anyone who wants to look at them the same way to see them in the city of Djakov for the last five years, 1100 new jobs open. A specific, exact number. If he can do that, he may need better, of course, he always needs better, but the shifts can be seen. Whoever wants to see them. So, do you see them, Mr. Ivanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76748	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76749	Well, I'm just not seeing them, I'm witnessing these things, and I'm not saying that to raise someone's feathers, but I'm saying it from my own experience, out of my life. As for love or trouble, I don't have any problems. For me, honest people will be honest people. Show me your hands. If they're clean, you don't have any problems about it, I've never shared people on these or those, but let's be honest, and for the end of the day, I'm going to apostrophe, anyone who wants to be real, who's still spending some of their time on the ground, will notice and notice huge and huge differences, so that more, more powerful, can be better, and that he will, Minister, I hope he will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76750	Thank you. No more replicas, and now it's Mr. Ivan Penava's turn. Here you go. Peniva or Penava? Penetrating. Mr. Penava, here you go. Mr. Penava, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76751	The Honorable Vice President of HS and the Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. First, I must commend, Minister, this is what has been with us all day and I must go and open my exhibit on a subject similar to what I have asked the Prime Minister today, i.e. I have replicated the presentation. So in order to shorten these discussions that we have and that we listen to both from our HDZ colleagues and from the other side of the SDP colleagues, I think it's pointless to talk here, it's a point of view and someone is satisfied, and someone is not and everyone has the right to do it both in their own attitude and to think about how they think. However, I said in the introduction, and I said similarly on the subject of the presentation of the State Attorney's Report, at all in the measure of things, I will not enter into the techniques, not at all slow, and I don't doubt that there is a ministry at the head with the minister and his people, that they have done a proper job and that there, from the point of view of the profession, everything works. However, what I question and what I think should be questioned is whether we are satisfied with the direction Croatia is going or not. And that's where we respond to a lot of these challenges that we're now involved in. In my view, this budget represents one policy of continuity. The continuity of not only this government of Andrej Plenkovic, but the government of all since the Homeland War, even some years and decades ago. Continuity policy that guarantees the relocation and closure of production plants in the Republic of Croatia. Is that all black? Of course, it is not, of course, that there are EU funds, of course, as you have said that a large number of projects have been opened, which, through the European Social Fund, through cohesion, even development, the EU programme, cross-border cooperation, and now in order not to list them, of course, are in places and thank God, full, and should be even more full of both DVDs and firehouses and agglomerations and roads and schools and kindergartens, which is now announced, however, the question that is being raised and which remains behind, to whom and what is it for? In particular, I am really questioning myself, and I would say that in Slavonia, all the flowers are flourishing, that in Slavonia is phenomenal. The list that is already in front of us is parts, the census, parts of that list have come out in, though in the unofficial version of the media, confirm the Osijek-Baranja County as the county with the biggest loss and outflow of the population in the last 10 years in issue 35 521 residents. There's nothing better than Vukovar-Srijemska, unfortunately, we're the first percent, 17% loss of population. To move on and get to Požeska, which shrugged down to 66,000 or Virovitics with 73,000, doesn't know if a man would sit down and cry or what he would do. Of course, you should consider, as I said, that is the continuity of one policy, but you should neither deny nor deny that the current government is there but through another government now, five years in office and certainly has its share of responsibility in it. But I'm not saying this because of responsibility. I'm saying this to point out one fact, which is that we're now the first time in the first year after the census that just took place in '21. So we're talking about next year's budget. I think we had to use it more courageously, to make one turn, I don't doubt that you love Slavonia or that colleague Hajdukovic loves Slavonia or that we all love Slavonia and Lika and all our neighborhoods, but talking about it doesn't see this danger is simply insane. Don't see the danger behind the name, and you'll assume what I'm talking about, Orlja, Viro, Boxmark Leather, Đuro Đaković Industrial Solutions, Sense of Sugar, these are not your perspectives [[Thank you. Time.]] Because if they are, we'll disappear. [[Intruder: Mr. Penava's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76752	Thank you very much. Stay, Mr. Ivanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76753	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, dear colleague Penava. I fall into the category of people who, especially here in the Croatian Parliament, want to speak not on the basis of some impression but on the basis of facts and what I have seen and touched through my actions at all. Let's be honest, here, you're the head of one unit of local self-government, you were Slavonia had an even bigger outflow, although this one is big, that we haven't managed to build at least part of that infrastructure that at least has such a guarantee that we'll keep a part of the investors, but also a part of the people who have to and who want to live in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem? I think the shifts are visible. I said, if it's enough, whether it could be more, surely yes, but I'm sure we've taken the first steps, but of course, it shouldn't and should not be stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76754	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76755	Of course, look at the trail and your question, I also spoke to you today, if you would like to have a comment and colleagues Bedeković. She mentioned and praised the tour around Virovitica. Well, of course, who's crazy to say you shouldn't. Well, of course you should, of course thanks to anyone who contributed in that sense. However, what I am telling you is that she commended it and so should all of us. However, she did not mention in any word the Virovitica Sugar factory that is no longer available. She didn't mention the number of inhabitants who are overrun like a sword over the head of all of us, but also her county. What I would do, but I'm sure the minister knows and would be very concerned about is where we're going with this kind of load. The other day I was talking about the price of fuel, and it's all about those excise duties of respected ministers that we're still going with the VAT on excise duty is out to me, out, I can't figure it out, and mostly in the context of still raising energy going up, we've raised the minimum wages that these repercussions will have on the processing industry. I think they are condemned to BiH and the region where much more concrete conditions are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76756	Time. Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76757	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow MPs and MPs. I tried to answer one rhetorical question today whether Andrej Plenkovic is more convincing when he talks about zero tolerance to corruption or is more convincing when he says he cares about the fight against climate change, sustainable growth and the future. The finance minister very confidently argues that over the next two years, the main driver of growth will be investments and exports of goods and services. Andrej Plenkovic in Glasgow says he will plant a million trees by 2030 to compensate for the impact of tourism on gas emissions. If we look at how the items in the budget draw these announcements we see nothing. In the same way that during the Summit on Climate Change scenes were destroyed, the completely missing Arizonas threatened the world and thus encouraged leading world politicians to at least declare policy changes in the direction of greater protection of natural wealth at this time I call on all Croatian citizens to picture themselves in their own thoughts a picture of Croatia which is just like the former Arizona forests after 30 years of HDZ rule by a completely devastationed country. The state is made of space, institutions and people. We've devastated the space. Our institutions are in the hands of corrupt authorities, and we've driven people away by corruption. They are not addressed in any way by this budget or by the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The judiciary, public administration, health care, education, social security all these systems that should have been the foundation and guarantee of our prosperity for three decades have been serving to paralyze HDZ in power. The budget says a little bit here, a little bit there, more or less as old, just getting more expensive than the previous years. But nothing significant in the system itself is changing. The system remains the same, and this system is only a prey of authorities who are unable to manage well, but yet it is full of self - praise, powerful, conceited and senseless. Andrej Plenkovic doesn't know how to operate because he doesn't know what he's talking about. Namely, it is not the problem of Croatia that there is not enough forest. The problem with Croatia is that it is full of paradoxes. 48% of the land area of the Republic of Croatia is covered in forests. We have Gorski Kotar as one of the most foresty areas within the European Union, and the paradox is that Gorski Kotar as a forest-rich area does not have a high school despite the fact that there is a lot of interest in such a thing among potential participants. And they wouldn't even know about it if it wasn't for that Prime Minister's statement from Glasgow. Namely, the High School of Forests in Gorski Kotar existed until the 1990s, then it was closed and was never opened again, and the paradox was that the Resorship Ministry called and proposed that such a school be built and opened said there was simply not enough funding for such an investment. That's just not true. It is not true that there is no financial resources, but that there is no interest in such a thing as HDZ. Namely, Andrej Plenkovic, his minister of finance, the HDZ who guards the parliamentary majority here, does not care about the preservation of our natural wealth. They also don't care about people who, with well-oriented education, could stay in the area they love and could open and create new jobs and prosperity in it, and thus the prosperity of the end. They also don't care about institutions that would establish a well-organised system that addresses the needs and interests of each citizen, each and every single end. There are no reforms that change the system in any way. Therefore, respected Finance Minister Maric will not succeed in generating growth because the system is corrupt from top to bottom. And as for planting trees and this spectacular announcement by Andrej Plenkovic of millions of trees in the next million years will not significantly change the structure of our forest fund. Thus, experts say, what few of them Croatia has not yet lost. So I invite you to rewrite the items of that unambitious budget of yours so focus more and significantly more on education, science, innovation, culture, sports. Invest in the trees of knowledge because it is the only way you can ensure the growth and development and the future of a nation. This is exactly how the amendments of the Centre Party and the Voice Party are envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76758	You, too. You have two replicas. Mr. Byce's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76759	Mrs. Oreshkovic, you said we have enough forests 46%. How accurate is the data, exactly? I'll tell you that there is a serious doubt that there is an excessive memory of the forest. When we talk about it then I will also point out that the UN agency has said that we have a 1/4 less planted forest in the last 10 years than they're going to say cut, sell, but at the same time we don't plant. If this is a UN analysis based on our data, it means that we do not respect our own natural resources, and we do not respect our own laws, because when we talk about Croatian forests that make up almost 75% of the total forests in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is actually the owner of the Republic of Croatia and the representative of the Government. That's one serious problem. So I wouldn't agree with you, we've got enough forest, because the data says the exact opposite that we're cutting more and more, and we're planting less and less.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76760	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76761	Yes, I made this statement based on the official manifestations of the forest associations that responded precisely to the statement of the minister, the god of the Prime Minister of Glasgow. But I actually agree with you that despite the official data, the naked eye is visible what happens on the slopes of the Medvednica. You can tell by the naked eye what's going on with Mariana's woods. It is also well known that there were no professionally trained foresters in the institutions that were to deal with the health care of the forest. All this together says exactly that we don't have quality institutions, that we don't have well-trained people, because it simply wasn't in the sphere of interest of this government. Perhaps no one has even brought our prime minister's attention to these problems, but that's why I said our amendments are going exactly to our resources, which are, above all, people, natural wealth and institutions that guarantee prosperity pay greater attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76762	Thank you very much. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76763	You mentioned corruption in the first part of your presentation. I think this budget really lacks a single item that would further extort our Prime Minister's radar that boasted so much, so that he has extensive radar for these things and then recognizes who of his associates walks into the red and enters his video circle. I mean, it used to be easier. They used to have Fimi-media and they knew who could steal. And then they had control and it was controlled damage, and it was easier for the state to pay back this money because it was all going one way, and now it seems to us that the theft was decentralised and that we actually have a problem with decentralisation because the Prime Minister can't follow it anymore. Every little bit surprised, every little bit of his associate ends up somewhere. So again HDZ reiterated its mandate, again there are 66 MPs, and compared to 2009, everything is just gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76764	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76765	Thank you. Dear colleague Bauche, you know who can steal and you know who steals. But you've noticed very well that something needs to be done about this. Namely, since we now have anti-corruption bodies that are no longer able to carry out their work in a way that detects corruption and process it on time and properly. Maybe we could cut the budget items from the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK, and the Commission's decision-making committee on conflict of interest. We don't know, in my time, the budget of the commission was about six million kunas a year, so let's reroute it all together to the government and the office or cabinet of the prime minister, and we'll strengthen those famous receptors for the detection of corruption, because we don't need anyone else's court but him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76766	You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. And now it's Mrs. Sanja Radolovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76767	Dear Vice President, thank you, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Yeah, we've been arguing all day today. I'm glad the Minister of Finance is still with us so he can hear firsthand what's really bothering us in this underdeveloped budget. I must first say that it is not fair that when we submit the amendments, we must explain for each of our smallest items why we think that the amendment is necessary to adopt, while for the budget whose specific portion extends to 878 pages and thousands and thousands of items we do not know why they ended up in the budget at all. I will, for example, list only some amounts because of all the Croatian public, and for example within the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the administration and administrative services themselves and the costs for services have increased to 20 million kuna. It is not small 10 million kunas more than the previous year, and for even 17 million kunas more than 2018. Years. Then directorate for the use of official aircraft 15 million kuna. Within the directorate there is an item of the administration of 7 million kuna itself also twice as many as the previous years. How? Why? There's no explanation. I have to say as the person who's new to the Parliament that I thought it would be quite difficult to find items with which we'd be able to download under quotes when we wrote our amendments, but I have to say that it was very easy, much easier than it was at city and county budget levels. For example, you have an item in the state budget of the Committee on Relations with the religious communities of 24 million kuna. I'm not talking about those international agreements, the Vatican contracts that amount to over 350 million kunas, but some office of a commission of 24 million kunas. Also, there's no explanation for what this office is for. The most fascinating items in the 2022 budget with projections are certainly information systems. It will be guessed that, obviously, this government wants an affair of software to extend to all ministries, to all state bodies, so we have an item to maintain the information system of the Customs Administration 127 million kuna. Also multiple amounts compared to all previous years. Then we have an information item on the Tax Administration 185 million kuna. In previous years, the item amounted to 20 million kuna. I don't even have to say that the restoration of the fleet in some ministries has really taken hold. It's about the amount of, for example, 8 million kuna in one ministry. I've already said in replicas I don't mind helping Croats outside of ours, but I don't think it's normal for 40 million kunas to be given to a hospital in Mostar while our hospitals are working under inhumane conditions. Also, as a person working at a university, a pulse university, I know how hard it is for us to make ends meet, I know how much the daily resolution ministry refuses us to co-finance, for example, EU projects where we're worth pulling over hundreds of millions of kunas, then when we ask for 5. 10% co-financing, the answer comes very quickly, within 24 hours- there's no money. But there's money for the University of Mostar and 40 million kuna. In parallel, I have to say the item that gets me the most distracted in the entire budget on 878 pages is the drug fund that's not on the list of HZZOs that's 3.6 million kunas. It is precisely in our beautiful few humanitarian actions, especially for children oncology patients who will have to go to experimental treatment abroad, so only 3.6 million kuna. And I also have to say something about health care. We boast about how we conduct ourselves, this government boasts about how health reform is carried out, how health care never stands better, but we have to testify that health care is simply in the millions of losses and I have to say that the Minister of Finance himself wants to implement health reform, but he does not know that it is a girl, that in 2014 he was a pilot of the SDP project of the Government, it has been the only year since the independence of the Croatian state when all the hospitals, including those 21 non-state hospitals, were doing business with a plus or a minor loss. What's changed? HZZO had to pay all health care hospitals and hospitals after execution, Not by limit and so I can say. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] To steal our hospitals' money. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76768	Thank you. But you have replicas, the first replica of the lady. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76769	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a few topics from your presentation coincide with what I advocate in political space. First of all, you have touched the rationality and justification of the spending of individual funds, here are these 24 million kunas for the Office of the Commission for Relations with Religious Communities, indeed no one can determine what it is for. The problem of Croatia is that so far, no single government has ever been responsible for pointless and unnecessary projects and megalomanical millions of figures that are unknown to what they are for. Another problem is the existence of a whole series of institutions that could be attached within some ministry, here, after you will speak Mrs. Zdravka Busic, so I will say that the Office of Croatians outside the country has 55 employees, all of them could work within one ministry. That's what I'm going to do with the data from all 33 judicial employees working within the USKOK. This shows what the priorities of this country are and how radical and corrupt they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76770	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76771	Yes, colleague Oreshkovic, it is really hard to manage in the woods of all these institutions, the state bodies that are now, we can see in the budget without talking about that isolated part of the budget where we have the financial plans of the other institutions. But what's really strong, I could say tragically, if you look at the structure of all the ministries and their costs, it's actually the Ministry of Finance that has the smallest items and that it's obviously trying to save, and all the other ministries are taking to heart, and unfortunately, I have to say, although the Minister of Finance obviously wants to implement that reform and the entire budget system, it simply doesn't leak to all sides across various bodies, associations and institutions in the state budget system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76772	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76773	Fellow Radolovic, you are right when you say that this budget is full of mysterious items and mysterious institutions, however we wish. So, let's say, in the education system alone, we have planned resources, but it's been going through for years, and the National Council for Education and Education and the Committee on Ethics and Science in Higher Education, which were simply murdered. This Committee on Ethics and Science in Higher Education was killed the moment he estimated that former Minister of Science and Education Mr. Barisic had planned, plagiarized a part of his scientific work. Secondly, you're right about what you've noticed now that obviously, when the 3 years of peace have passed, they're aggressively beginning to acquire and rebuild the fleets, almost for all ministries, without exception and third, very interesting, this third observation that there is one, one particular fetish to informing not only the ministries but also the institution. Do you think it's an accident or is it some kind of organized plan when we talk about this information?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76774	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76775	Here, I'll start with this last one. What I think of this is that they want to rely on the so-called "good" part of it. The EU funds and all these releases and billions of euros that hope to benefit from EU funds. However, I believe that informing the entire system, whether we talked about the tax administration, whether we talked about customs, is not a priority. In particular, it has proved not to be a priority with this last software affair in the way it's done. We currently have in our country from education, from education, to solve more priority things than informing the system because we have shown that we are not doing it, and it is doing nothing. As for all these bodies that you've listed in the education and education system, they're not the only ones, we have a whole series of these associations, institutions that don't actually do their job right. One of them is, for example, the National Council for Science and Higher Education, which only meets to meet, doesn't want to approve the approvals of studies, but they work against the law that met the conditions, but I think some higher bodies will You have to make a decision. [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76776	This last one was interesting, but unfortunately time. Here you go. - Mrs. Crescent. Zdravka Busic is on her way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76777	... The Parliament, Mr. Minister. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleagues and colleagues. Allow me, along with this proposal, to highlight certain items that are important for the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I would like to point out that the significant position on the state, within the state budget, is also the means planned and intended to preserve the identity of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. The draft budget for the 22nd and projections for the 23rd and 24th years shows that the topic of the Republic of Croatia's relationship with Croats outside Croatia is recognised as one of the key and priority for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is determined to provide systematic and significant financial support to protect and strengthen the identity of Croats outside Croatia i.e. Croatian peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croatian national minorities in European countries and the entire Croatian emigration. However, I would stress that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is at the same time aimed at creating all kinds of preconditions for the return of emigrant Croats to their homeland. I would particularly like to emphasise here the significant role of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia as the central authority of the state administration responsible for the areas of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the country, which has been systematically concerned and co-operated with members of the Croatian people living outside the borders of Croatia throughout their activities, and which was also obliged to submit a draft budget for this period. A conscious need and importance, but also proven benefits and activities carried out by the draft budget for the 2022nd year of this central state body, is greater than the opportunity of 68 million kuna. This increase is secured despite the difficult circumstances that have hit us from the pandemic to the earthquake, because the government is aware of the importance and needs of preserving Croatia's identity beyond our borders. Here I will only list some items of the budget that have been significantly increased precisely because they are of exceptional importance to members of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia. I'll just name some of the important ones. The financing of cultural, educational, scientific, health and other programmes and projects of interest to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina by 22 years is projected to increase from 24 million kuna. An increase of 3 and a half million kuna is planned for programmes and projects of Croatian emigration organisations and associations in the overseas and European countries for financial support for 22 years. For the programmes and projects of the organisation and association of the Croatian national minority financial support for this budget, an increase of 5 million kuna is foreseen. For scholarships to students of Croatian people outside Croatia for the academic 21-22 year, 9 million 36.9.36 million were increased. For the first time within the budget, funds are also provided for programmes to encourage the return and integration of Croatian emigrants and attract young generations. integration projects. Support programmes for the strategic projects of the Croatian national minority in Serbia and Montenegro envision an increase of around 2 and a half million kuna. Also for the development and establishment of a digital application for Croatian language learning, the Central State Office will develop a new modern application for online learning of Croatian language, it also provides for an increase of 2 and a half million kuna, etc. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that the Committee members have been commended for the efforts and efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Central State Office, the Council of Government and all other institutions whose mission and objective is to support and strengthen the position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and to strengthen the integration and unity of the country's evicted Croatia, with a permanent mission to preserve Croatia's identity, development and progress, but with the continued promotion of the return of our emigrants and integration into Croatian society. As a return to my home country from my personal experience, I can say how much every relationship with my country means to a Croat in emigration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76778	Mrs. Bushic, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76779	Our countrymen in emigration recognize and appreciate the effort and care of our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76780	Thank you. Unfortunately, thank you. But you have replicas, and you will be able to reach out. Mrs. Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76781	Dear colleagues, you have lived in America for a long time, and you must know the work of helicopter emergency medical services and their role in the care of emergency patients. In its four-year programme, the government of the Republic of Croatia decided to establish a helicopter emergency medical service. I also have to remind you, you know that, but then everyone knows that negotiations are under way with the European Commission on the financing of helicopter emergency medical services from European funds. Do you think there will be a problem, for example, in rebalancing if this negotiation ends until then, positively, to provide funds for the implementation of the domestic component in the rebalancing process? We need this emergency medical service, and we need the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76782	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76783	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague, for having addressed this question. Of course, we're all aware of how much a helicopter service is needed and how much it actually takes in these emergency medical cases, in case of emergency assistance how important it is that we all talk and we all know, we're all familiar with that so-called. The golden hour that matters. It's actually worth the life you're saving, so thank you for replicating this replica, even if it's not part of this area where I addressed it. But I really hope that all of this that you have said can happen and that in the rebalancing, it will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76784	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76785	Thank you. It seems to me that the HDZ is very abused by the constitutional obligation to care and care for the Republic of Croatia for Croats living outside the country, especially through the work of this independent office. If the government wants good for all Croatian citizens, it would be wise to attach the office to one of the ministries. You mentioned colleagues in your statement that this year there is 24 million more for the Croats in BiH, and I will say that at one of the Committee's sessions we heard the fact that in the observed period perhaps a couple of years 50 thousand Croats in BiH are less. They were driven away by the same thing that drove them out of the Republic of Croatia, which is corruption. This office doesn't deal with those emigrants who went back a few years, several hundred thousand of them, I don't know if their departure can be balanced. Your return to your homeland. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76786	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76787	Well, I, I'm, I'm very glad, I'm proud that we're helping, and besides that, we should always say, I really have to point out that I'm sorry that I heard some remarks tonight about the assistance of the University of Mostar, for the help of the Mostar hospitals, you are, you need, colleagues, I hope you know that there are also Croats, that there are thousands of students from Croatia studying at the Bridge University. So, really, I, for the second time, will really do my best for what I heard today and tonight, as far as the budget is concerned, I will tell you exactly how many Croatians are studying from Croatia, Split, Dubrovnik, Metkovic and other parts of Croatia are studying in Mostar and in the same way as the Croats from BiH, and how many Croats are being treated in Hospital Bridge and it's a university hospital. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I hope those of you who appreciate [[Thank you very much, ma'am.]] And the university [[/Intruder: Busic, thank you.]] Excuse me, excuse me. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76788	- Mrs. Crescent. Bad Billic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76789	... My colleague, here you have touched this increase in funds to the state, the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the amount of nearly 60 million. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Yesterday, on the Committee that you chaired, we discussed exactly that, and I have one sentence left that you and another speaker have said, no matter how important the money is, it is an important feeling for these people that Croatia takes care of them. And here, when, I would repeat those words of yours, and I think it should be shown by example because I've been on this board more than once, I keep repeating as a parrot and I appeal to people who return to Bosnia's Pavina to allow a normal crossing of the border, especially at this time of the crown, given that a large part of their families live on this side and they've been denied access, and believe me that this is much more important to them than any money, that the family can come to them, that they can visit them and everything else, so here. Just so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76790	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76791	Thank you very much. I think, fellow Members, thank you for your observation, and I'd appreciate it if you in the Committee would correctly clarify your question. I've really worked very hard on crossing the border, how and in any way to ensure that the border is really easier to cross, we, we're very well aware of all this and I would, I'd really appreciate it if we, here, whatever the question you have, but a specific question, not like that... Well, say it one way or another. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, you can't do everything, but crossing the border has problems everywhere, but we've really done everything, and trust me, here, if, whenever you want, come to me, I'll explain to you all the ways we've helped and helped and we're doing everything we can to facilitate people's transition because we're aware of what you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76792	And finally, Mr. Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76793	Dear colleagues. I agree with you when you say that one of the key and priority moves and wishes of this government is to preserve the identity of Croats living outside Croatia, and I am sure that in the coming years the increasing amount will be in that item because of the policies that we have, more and more people are moving out. And that's what I meant to look back on, but you mentioned me a little bit, look, no one has any problem investing in building a hospital in Mostar, no one has a problem. But we didn't have a hospital in Pula at the time. And we had a hospital at multiple locations. Does anyone wonder how these people are, who they are, the Swiss, the Germans, the Austrians? Well, they're Croats, too. You were in the river? What does the hospital in Rijeka look like? Well, that's the darkness. And you're telling us that we're against it. We don't, but let's get your problems home first, and then let's look outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76794	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76795	I'm sorry that in this way, here, it's embarrassing for me to, don't be angry with me, I think it's all being arranged somehow in the way it should be arranged, and of course to everyone, of course, that it would be better to have more modern hospitals working on all sides, but this is actually always that these people survive, here, talking, colleagues mentioned how many people are leaving. And where would they be treated? And in what way would they be treated? So I think that, if we didn't, that we should be a little bit more broad-minded, if I could say so, and be kind of kind of kind of considerate of others who have far less, believe me, than you have in Pula or in, say, Rijeka. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76796	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Just let me abuse my position, we had a hospital in two locations. Two bad hospitals in two locations we had, not two hospitals in two locations. So, I took advantage of my position. And now we have a hospital. Here you go, Mr. Damir Bajs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76797	... Here, a little bit has been cleared out of this room, no more representatives of the ministry, but we still have to do it, to conclude this debate that wasn't really too long. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, I'm talking about the budget of the Republic of Croatia at the moment of the crown pandemic, at the moment of the elimination of the consequences of two devastating earthquakes, I think it's crucial that we were, I would say, clear in what we think is possibly good in the budget, that is, of course, the ruling option pointed out, but what is not good that we think should be different. First of all, there's a lot of talk about whether the budget is real. What I would point out is that he can't be realistic, we know it, and the government knows it, and the ruling majority in this House knows it. Why can't it be real? Because it's impossible for a pandemic that has a health situation that is squirming in problems that 13 billion kunas will be sufficient. So the funds that we've abolished in this section will certainly be returned to the first rebalancing. What's this done for? I don't know. Whether it's a budget deficit or something else the finance minister knows. But what we do know is that no reform of health care will do that in the next year, by one third or another, there will be less actually health expenditure in Croatia. Yes, of course. I'd say the other way around. It'll probably be bigger. And when we talk about this health care and this pandemic, it is the European Union and the European Union's Parliament that put health care as the first priority of the European Union budget, and we have put it in the last place. I don't think so, so we can't survive and so the budget won't be realistic and we expect the rebalancing soon as these funds are spent that are in the budget. Also when we talk about what the budget is like. He's just financially similar to last year. So he's almost identical, but the sources of income are different. It is important that the part concerning European funds is increased. But why? Because the funds provided to us and related to the earthquakes that hit us must be spent in 2022. We know how much we've spent so far. 1%. However, funds must be made to demand an extension. However, the funds will not be spent and will certainly not be resolved in terms of the overall consolidation of this budget for 2022. It is also an important increase for tax funds. I would say that this increase is very ambitious and that this increase is actually based on tourism. Tourism must now be an important activity of the economy, and as a former tourism minister, I must say that we cannot in any way accuse tourism of being guilty of it and of what it is. He only helped Croatia. The fact that our other economies aren't strong enough, so other parts of the economy, that's another thing. However, a chance has been missed, a chance has been missed concerning this moment of matter, such as tax cuts, tax reform, freedom and support to the economy and our employees. And when we talk about some of the things that are local to me, I am glad that I saw not in the part relating to the items, but in the descriptive part of at least the part of Croatia from which I come and this is the fast road Zagreb – Bjelovar – Virovitica and Zagreb – Koprivnica. I hope to see it soon in something else in the cities that will be spent. Although she's been in the descriptive section a lot of times, but not this time. And yes, I'm glad that my amendments as a representative in the Croatian Parliament caused a reaction so here's one of the HDZ's representatives said that... An amendment that will help the General Hospital of Belovar and that's something. [[You don't understand.]] This means that we can also work and provoke the ruling majority that if it doesn't put a budget at least this way because of the local policy, it makes this step and helps where it is needed, and it is not only a hospital in Mostar, but also a General Hospital in Bjelovar. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76798	Thank you. It is now up to Mr Marin Lerotić to speak finally on behalf of the IDS Club, a representative of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76799	Dear Vice President, I would like first of all to take the opportunity to thank Minister Maric, who, every time we are here in these long debates, is here present. But it might be better to talk about the state budget or the rebalancing that there are other ministers here to hear what we have to say about us from the opposition, but also you from the ruling ones because most often everything is based on some other ministries and at least on the Ministry of Finance. A lot's been said today. I would like to reiterate that I am sorry that we have again a budget that already plans a deficit of 9 billion kunas in the beginning and what I said in the first debate that I am sure that in the rebalancing that we will certainly have in some period next year, we will have an increase in that deficit, an increase in public debt in GDP, and we will pay all of this by new borrowing. Unfortunately, this is because we do not essentially have the serious and real reforms that would encourage the economy, which would encourage investment, which would encourage new employment like those in the judiciary, health, local and regional self-government and education. And let's say I'm glad to hear it, for example. A colleague of Ivanovic's who likes me to be honest and personally a little nice when he says kindergartens are being built in his area. I'm glad to hear it in some other parts of Croatia when schools are being built. But I'd rather hear it if we were talking about a factory being built. Here's often we may only mention Istria, but I'm going to tell Slavonia who was once one of the richest regions in the former country where all these factories are? Why didn't we put all that money into new jobs, into new investments? That's when people wouldn't move us. We'd have workers. These workers would fill local and regional budgets. Then the state wouldn't have to build kindergartens and schools, they'd be done by local and regional self-government. I think that should be the direction we're going to go, I think that's the only direction that's sustainable. And when I looked back at the hospital a little while ago, there was no problem in helping a hospital in Mostar or anywhere abroad. But what do you think it's like for people of Istria who work, who are industrious, who often work two or three jobs. How many people I know who work nights from 9 to 5 and then at 7 he goes to the vineyard to have wine, to have top-notch olive oil. And then at home, there's no adequate health care. And he doesn't have adequate health care, and on the other hand he's looking at what's going on elsewhere, is that just? [[And then tourists more.]] Is that why we're less solid or don't know less Croats? I don't think so. I think we're pretty solid. The Minister of Finance probably knows even better than I do how much Istra pays in the budget more than we do. It's the same theme. We've done research in our time. It was over a billion kuna. Today, maybe more, maybe less. But here we are. ... Okay. But that's the same thing. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's take the Oilman. How much was the share of state ownership in Uljanika? 25%. A little less. How much is in Podravka? Same thing. Where did the new management of Podravka get elected? Over there. [[Intruder Radin: Only without dialogue please.]] What about the Oilman? We all know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76800	Thank you very much, Mr. Lerotić. And now it's Mr. Marin Mandaric's turn to speak for the HDZ Club as well as final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs, fellow parliamentary representatives, respected ministers, state secretaries and others who are still following this long debate. It has already been 21 hours, will slowly arrive, 12 hours are under discussion about the 2022 RH budget. Of course, the budget, the most important political document, is quite clear. Since it's also a political document, it's also drawing up some kind of policy. I'd say it's already the fifth budget we can tell these governments. It clearly outlines the policy of the continuity of development, the continuity of gross social product growth, the continuity of employment growth, the continuity of unemployment reduction, the increase in income, the increase in wages, the decrease in public debt, that is, the share of public debt in GDP, the continuity of the improvement of credit rating, the approximation of the euro, the OECD, Schengen, the increase in security. And we may be able to make all of this known by one denominator of the policy of progress, the policy of progress again under the leadership of the HDZ government. And, of course, many will say the expected budget. Looking at the experiences of the last 5, 6 budgets proposed by the Government, headed by Mr. Maric, we can, in fact, come from the experience of these budgets today with certainty when we say that the budget is realistically and conservatively planned. And in the previous years, the three years when the budget deficit was planned, so there was a surplus. Minister Maric has shown that he can stay on the ground, that he will not fly too ambitiously with too much intent, so that he must come here to this high home for rebalancing and explain why something has not been fulfilled according to expectations. I say it again, measured and realistic before it's going to be more conservative, and then God forbid it's going to happen better. Hopefully that's the way it's gonna be in 2022. Of course, it was demanding, challenging to plan this budget, because they're unstable circumstances, they're unstable times. The revenues are again planned similar to those of a country similar if not greater than that of an even pre-crisis year 2019. But of course it's questionable what 2022 will be, how the situation with the pandemic of the coronary virus will develop, whether any other instability will come. Of course, these are all some questionnaires ahead of us, but I believe that the government led by Andrej Plenkovic, Ministry of Finance, led by Mr. Maric will respond to all these challenges. I'd just like a few lines from the budget. We see that there is a significant growth in income from the base of value added tax. Of course, under the influence of increasing personal consumption, which affects good expectations from the tourist season, but also from public state investment. More significant revenue growth from the basis of the withdrawal of European funds. We are opening up the possibility of funding our projects from the IPO. They're high expectations of that. I know the whole country's waiting like a stuck-up gun. We've all prepared a bunch of projects in the funding phase. We've all filled out drawers and closets with building permits. We can't wait for the first public calls to start. Of course, this is a prerequisite for this planned budgetary revenue to be achieved. There's been a lot of talk here today about unreally small projected spending on financing the health system, smaller than this year, which is actually going to be, which is going to be a record. Again, the plan is to project some kind of policy. Of course, it's a policy of urgency to put as much order in the health system as possible. A reform of the health system is also being announced. I hope that we will be successful in this and that it will prove right that less expenditure is being planned today for the purpose of financing the health system. The HDZ Club will, of course, be happy to support the proposed budget for 2022. 144 and a half billion kuna, realistically and conservatively planned budget revenues. 173.8 billion kuna of development budget expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76802	You, too. Now it is Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's turn in front of the Social Democrats Club, as well as final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76803	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So the Social Democrats Club cannot share the enthusiasm of the HDZ Representatives Club because there is no other of the ruling ones. They've lost interest. I guess they gave their laudes to Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric in the morning, and they have to do it in the evening. But I'll tell you why. So these are exact data, these are exact projections, and that is we have a series of variables in the next year that we can predict. So variations in energy prices, which are crises in logistics supply chains, which may be a continuation of the pandemic and who knows what. Maybe some new strain, a new pandemic or whatever. We in the budget simply don't see how the state thinks to respond and intervene and absorb if you're going to say amortize these challenges. It's just not there. We plan as if next summer is probably a hundred days of sun and there are no challenges, and there are no challenges and we can predict them. And I wouldn't say earthquake or anything like that predicts we can't, but we can do this. It's just for sure that I listen from certain colleagues and colleagues that in Slavonia it's wonderful, wonderful, that I guess without social homes there wouldn't be a future. And I ask you what kind of future we have in Slavonia without or with if you want Osijek sugar, Đur Đakovic, Orljav, Borova. Do I need to count on it? I don't see where the state is going to help those who still failed, and we know how it helped those who did. They're gone. Well, I expect that in a year there may not be a half of those that I've listed that still stick to the teeth for the wind. There has also been a lot of talk about helping abroad and that we understand colleagues and colleagues too little respect for our people abroad. I have nothing against our countrymen in Bosnia and Herzegovina, though. These are our compatriots whom we have, if not morally and then legally, committed ourselves to protecting and helping each other. But colleagues and colleagues can't simply, I can't accept the fact that we're investing millions in a Mostar hospital, and in Osijek, the ceiling literally falls on your head. And Slavons are also valuable people who unfortunately have nowhere to work, whose country is unfortunately sold to the Russians, I don't know who and who don't even have the basic health care they should have, I think at least when they're in the hospital they don't get bricks on their heads. And colleagues and colleagues, I don't caricate when I tell you that's the case. I invite you to come to KBC Osijek, let's say to the boarding house where the infirmary is to see what the poor thing is in the 19th century, to see what the chairs are that are falling apart, to see what the bush is falling off the walls, to see what is the ceiling that is collapsing. Well, while we have such a situation, how can we help others with all due respect and all the love we feel and commitment. Some are unable to help or symbolically, and some are helped beyond our means. And that's why I'm telling you this budget just isn't real. This budget just doesn't move what it's supposed to do. This budget is like the identity card of a ruling majority telling me everything I need to know, which is that this majority is wrong, that the HDZ government is wrong, that the president and Prime Minister Plenkovic are wrong. Let's just say it. Because at the end of the day if I'm lying, if the goat's lying, they don't lie to the horn, they don't lie to the numbers, they don't lie to those excel plates with all the efforts of HDZ colleagues and colleagues to hair them, to pump them up, to make them better. But colleagues and colleagues, if the horn is broken, nothing can camouflage it, so can this budget. And that's why colleagues and colleagues of the Social Democrats Club are after this debate, all the arguments and arguments we've heard are even more confident that we won't support this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76804	Thank you. And now it is up to Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic to speak finally on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76805	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow MPs and MPs, before I begin the debate, I will look back at a nice situation that currently rules in the assembly, which is something that is rarely seen. At this point, we have more opposition parliamentary representatives than we do from the ruling HDZ. It just shows that we need to be persistent enough, so this is going to become a regular state, not an exception. And then I'm going to refer briefly to this final part of the representative's presentation. We referred to increasing costs for Croatians abroad, especially for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as for a hospital in Mostar. Col. Hajdukovic, it is one thing to fulfil our constitutional obligation, and something else is quite different to abuse this mechanism to buy your own votes. That's exactly what HDZ does. We were called not to be compassionate by criticizing these 40 million kunas or how many years has been allocated for this purpose. When we pointed out the situation in other Croatian hospitals from Pula, from Osijek. I'll mention Slavonski Brod. This year, a humanitarian action is being carried out this time for the general hospital department of neonatology where two new incubators are wanted. And that humanitarian action is carried out by a national TV house. Of course I support all humanitarian actions and so does this one. But since the action has the name "Be My Friend", should I ask the question, is it not the authority which is the problem to allocate financial resources for two incubators to the enemy of its own people or are individual citizens, especially babies in the most vulnerable stages of their lives the least important? And it may be even more tragic considering why these two new incubators are actually being supplied. Well, because the existing four are outdated by their model, the age of production. Namely, spare parts are no longer produced for them. It is not only this reason why the Club of the Centre and GLAS cannot support this budget and not only do we not share the optimism that has been heard today from the HDZ ranks, but I am expressing a deep skepticism that everything that the representatives of the HDZ Club have been talking about will indeed be achieved. It is not disputed that at this point there are a whole series of already prepared projects, it is not disputed to wait for public calls, public tenders to withdraw funds from the EU funds. However, the dispute is that most of these withdrawn funds are likely to be another tragic story and a system of missed opportunities, missed chances. We've had funds withdrawn so far. We built the infrastructure, however, the question arises where people are. These people were driven away by something else. They were driven away by a system that does not care about their needs, a system of corruption, clientism and nepotism. But other than this key problem that we obviously won't get rid of until we get rid of HDZ, there's something called a planning problem. Namely, all of these major projects, all of what the figures say in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, should have been designed before in our national ideas, visions, goals, plans for each individual space and permanent such plans, such visions and such objectives simply do not exist. What was predicted as a system of income and expenditure is the reaction to the current event to some ad hoc state, but there is absolutely no systematic planning. And when in such an unsettled and unplanned system you go to withdraw huge financial resources, it is highly likely that their purpose will simply not be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-01-0.u76806	Thank you, too. We have concluded the debate on the proposal for a state budget for 2022 and projections and on the final draft law on the implementation of the state budget. So we've concluded a debate on these laws and we'll vote when the conditions are met. And tomorrow I'll meet you at 9.30. You want to come too? Okay. At 9.30 p.m. when will be the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. That's Law 177. Thank you, Mr. Minister, and good night, everyone! The session was interrupted at 21.20 p.m.
