ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27281	The sixth debate, SDP representative club, respected colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27282	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In the media space, every day we have a chance to see new sexual harassment affairs emerging, and I remind you again, the Government of A. Plenkovic to the Parliament has proposed not to accept the SDP's proposal on sexual harassment that should be prosecuted under official duty. It happened just a few days ago, it happened on Friday, last Friday before Women's Day. I remind you, just a few days ago, we suggested erasing Article 3. 156. KZ, therefore, any act of sexual harassment would be prosecuted even after a three-month period has elapsed. or on official duty. These changes to the KZ have been refused or delayed by the Government and, in fact, a stronger criminal protection of victims of sexual harassment has been delayed. Maybe in three, maybe six months. At the same time, she sent a public and clear message to the perpetrators that they were still protected from persecution, in fact, we all witnessed on Friday that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had turned its back on the victims. I'm saying this because sexual harassment is happening in the Republic of Croatia, it's happening continuously, it's happening now. One example is the Belovar House for Adults. It is this Belgrade House for Adults who have been investigated these days by police and DORH for several anonymous reports stating the sexual harassment of workers by Director Zlatko Kraljic. A home for adults in Bjelovar was founded in 1969. is owned by the Republic of Croatia and under the direct jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy. Minister Josip Aladrovic, Minister of Government Andrej Plenkovic, is responsible for his business. This topic is particularly sensitive because it is an establishment that provides social services to adults with mental impairment and 70 employees have an extremely responsible and demanding job. That's why it's important to say the consequences of sexual harassment victims. They manifest themselves in individuals and individuals, citing a series of psychological consequences from acute reactions to stress to PTSD development, feelings of uncertainty, fear. When it comes to sexual harassment in the workplace, there may be a development of feelings of mistrust in the environment and of people with whom there is social anxiety, which affects productivity, concentration, in this case precision. Thus, the system makes the victim continue to seek judicial protection through a private lawsuit, through the victim's lawsuit, against an employer who has not removed illegal and discriminatory behavior. And we are now learning from the media that the ministry has confirmed that during the last extraordinary inspection surveillance of the home conducted on October 5th, they have determined the allegations of complaints in a way that talks have been conducted with persons to protect the dignity of workers in the home. On 6 October 2020, on 6 October 2020, the High Inspector, adopted a decision ordering the Board of Directors to examine the responsibility of the Director. It was also ordered by the expert council to examine the issue of complaints and performances related to work at home, the suspicion of possible sexual harassment of workers was also informed by Bjelovar Police Station on 6 October 2020, as well as by supplementing the notice of 23 October. The appointed director of the home for adults Zlatko Kraljic is determinedly refusing to blame the victim. He says it's about a colleague who's generally unhappy with work and who anonymously sent out applications before I even got home. When such reports failed, a colleague apparently decided to make a false application for sexual harassment, the director said without shame. And now, at the very end, it's been more than six months since the board's order to investigate the director's responsibility, as well as inform the police. I ask Minister Aladrovic what he did specifically to protect the victims at that time, I ask Minister Malenica when we will see the proposal to amend the Penal Code and ask Prime Minister Plenkovic if there are any untouchable in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27340	We are going to another debate, this is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27341	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am this morning wondering where M. Pupovci went? He's not in Croatian media, he's hiding somewhere, and the towers say he went east, that Serbia, and that in Serbia he lobbys with his mentor, A. Vukic, in agreement, of course, with his partner Andrej Plenkovic, that this leader from the east, a great, new leader who comes from the hilly Balkans, is helping us fight the crown of the crisis. It is said that Vukic, thanks to the lobbying of Milorad Pupovac, will donate us a rescue vaccine as he recently did in Sarajevo, as he did in BiH. For those who do not know, Serbia has already vaccinated millions and 650 thousand people while Croatia has vaccinated only 250,000 people or spent a dose, so Serbia is among the first. Is this why Milorad Pupovac is not on TV, is he not in the media, or is it perhaps because he changes it daily exactly because of Alexander Vukic, whom we have in Croatian media every day, exclusive reporting? We know what's going on in Kragujevac, what's going on in Belgrade or New U.S.A., and we don't know what's going on in Sibenik, Zadar or Osijek. Of course this isn't the reason, and this was a joke. Alexander Vukic will not help us like we'll never see a cent of the money he promised to help with the earthquakes in the affected areas. However, Milorad Pupovac has indeed hidden himself, hid for reasons why local elections are coming and Andrej Plenkovic and the ruling furniture is not wise, it is not wise for Milorad Pupovac to be exposed because he still does not like Milorad Pupovac's traditional electoral body, and HDZ needs Milorad Pupovac and his hand, and Milorad needs power because he needs money for SNV and other projects. However, here we must say that this crisis of the coronary crisis, or this global pandemic, which we are faced with has exposed many players and many facts related to the EU. In the beginning, I will say that we Croatian sovereigns are against mandatory vaccination, against forced vaccination, and of course against discrimination against all those who are not vaccinated tomorrow, but also for those who wish to be vaccinated to be given vaccination. So, those who don't want to be vaccinated, and those who want to be vaccinated, let them be vaccinated. Today, however, the EU has shown its incompetence, so it threatens those who do not want to be vaccinated, and on the other hand, those who want to be vaccinated did not allow them to be vaccinated. The EU has shown that it is an ordinary group of incompetent bureaucrats who, in a very funny way, are actually coping with this emerging situation. The first serious crisis faced by the EU, the EU capitulated, fell apart, broke down by seams, no longer exists. Orban obtains an independent vaccine, the Czech Republic also, Slovakia also, Poland, that you don't think that only we from the east are criticising, Denmark is doing the same, Austria is doing the same. However, Croatia continues to remain silent and watchful, wisely poor. He sees what great European players will do, what France will do, what Germany will do. And since they do nothing and Croatia does nothing. Why? Because it does not match the current ruling set in Croatia. So, the only poorer than the current EU policy and its capabilities is the current situation in Croatia, the current political situation, or the current ruling set in Croatia. I repeat, we are not for forced vaccination, we are not for discrimination, but for those who wish to be vaccinated, so let the authorities make it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27455	8th debate, National Movement Representatives Club and esteemed colleague Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27456	Thank you very much. Respected, offered by the statements held at last week's session on the adoption of the Agriculture Act, how, I quote a colleague from the ruling option, no one is guilty of our peasants because they are unable to fill out a single paper and apply to the competition, which is why he tried to justify the investments of several billion kunas of our Ministry of Agriculture in large companies, while 70,000 OPGs in Croatia are not receiving a single drop from the RS budget. I want to bring Croatia's public closer to thinking from EU level, about the existence and unquestionable support to family economies. The biggest Croatian weakness in relation to Europe is not related to the contractual relations of our commitments to the EU, but is now resting in an unprepared manner to identify to what extent the basic value choice of Croatian agricultural policy is, in fact, the industrialisation of the village in part with the European one. As part of public indoctrination for the past few years, the public has been bombarded with information that small farms will not survive on a demanding and competitive EU market. Even if you do not know the subject of EU agricultural policy, you are sufficient to drive, for example, Slovenia and Austria, countries with which we have so much in common, and much will be clearer to you. There are no large agglomerations anywhere, mostly no large herds, and no pitches are very large either. But you will admire the landscape, the beautiful nature, you will sit in a nearby coffee shop for refreshment, and perhaps quite close to seeing and stopping with a dozen, a maximum of 10 cows with which to produce and offer, for example, yogurt, milk, homemade cheese, etc., which are the key to a small but materially stable economy. In the EU, small economies are considered those who produce food for their own purposes and participate in the market in a very small percentage. On purpose, the setting of any minimums has been avoided and Member States have been allowed to adopt their own criteria for the sustainability of their OPGs. With only two EU enlargements, so I am talking about 2004 and 2007 millions of OPGs have been introduced into the EU, their competitiveness and market integration are very low. These small economies are mostly found in neglected regions where, above all, they serve as support for local communities and important social and cultural services and environmental maintenance, so their disappearance would have a major impact on rural areas within the EU. Small economies make up, between a third and half of the total number of agricultural holdings in various countries, and in countries such as Estonia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, the number of CAPs is constantly increasing. The role and survival of small economies depend, not primarily on economic development, but mainly on agricultural policy, inherited land structure, land management policy and the culture of individual peoples. I remind you that one of the goals of rural development is to improve the attractiveness of rural space and thus increase the potential for employment and survival of people in rural space. Dearly ruled, peasants who were not even a little ashamed of you were good to you when you needed to take guns into your hands in the Homeland War and defend Croatian territory. Today you take their credit and boast that it is you who created the state. The Croatian public has not forgotten that your ministers, who have been paid to recognize and reward the effort and pain our farmers spend daily in order to survive, are actually dealing with writing regulations based on which they personally apply to new ones, with their newly founded OPGs on competitions and withdrawing millions. Think of your actions and judgments at the expense of our peasants because the old folk says well, do not judge another, lest one day be judged against you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27532	And the 9th debate, respected colleague Dalia Oreskovic on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27533	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll talk about the election procedure of the President or the President of the Supreme Court. No one doubts that this duty, this judicial and public function should be attended by a person of high professional and personal authority, a person with a significant reputation in the profession, a person with a vision and courage, in short, a person who has all the qualities that now grace Zlata Djurdjevic. Personally, I would be very proud and happy to vote in the Croatian Parliament for the election of Zlata Djurdjevic as Supreme Court President. But right now, that's not possible. And so all of you fellow MPs and MPs, I call on you to be responsible, I call on you not to take away the glow that Goldi Djurdjevic currently has, I urge you not to drag her into the ground floor political accounts so that she does not become a pawn and collateral victim of ours, perhaps with good intentions, but in any case, of false efforts. And therefore I will not enter into the constitutional powers of the President of the State, talk about the constitutional obligations of our representatives in the Croatian Parliament that come directly from the Constitution. Art. 81st indent 10 says the Croatian Parliament conducts elections, appointments and resolutions in accordance with the Constitution and laws. The text of the oath that we have all taken in this Croatian Assembly, he says, I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duties as a representative in the Croatian Parliament with good conscience and responsibility and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law in my work. Fellow MPs and MPs, the Law on Courts is still in force and prescribes a certain procedure and a certain procedure that we cannot ignore right now. The procedure shall be prescribed by a public call which includes the obligation to submit a résumé and a work plan. These provisions of the Law on Courts were amended at the recommendation of GRECO in order to make the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court more transparent and less subject to political preferences. And it was only a small and insufficient attempt to strengthen judicial independence. I believe that Z. Milanovic's move is driven by good intentions, but it will essentially bring us back a few steps, so this way of imposing elections is problematic and harmful and needlessly leading to a constitutional, political and legal crisis. And I agree with Z Milanovic's grades that there is a problem in the functioning of the Constitutional Court as well as a problem in the functioning of a number of other institutions, but who did? Who, after all, left the institution quite rotten today? By disobeying the Law on Courts, we will in fact make the situation worse. Among other things, the constitution states that the Croatian Parliament does not only implement the appointment on the proposal of direct authority of the President of the State but also with the preliminary opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court and the relevant board of the Croatian Parliament. And what is the situation of this general session of the Supreme Court? To give a positive opinion on a candidate who did not participate in a public call? That's impossible. What is the situation of the Justice Committee, regardless of what is now the majority of MPs from the parliamentary majority? In what way can I give a positive opinion of a person who has not participated in the procedure prescribed by the Law on Courts, adopted by this Parliament? And finally, if we had ignored our constitutional obligation and our duty, our oath here, if in this way we had appointed Zlata Djurdjevic president of the Supreme Court, we would have actually trapped her. Its tasks are not judicial reform, it is the task of this body, the Croatian Parliament. Its task is to do everything in its power in terms of equating judicial practice, in establishing equality, justice. In what way will it be able to maintain its reputation and authority when calling and chairing the general session of the Supreme Court if we put her in a position to come to this post by violating the principle of equality before the law? If that were to happen, wouldn't it be the victory of Z. Milanovic over HDZ, wouldn't it be even the victory of Croatian citizens if a person worthy of these functions finally came to the top of the judiciary? No, I don't. It would be another one in a series of winning policies that shows that the people she chooses and puts in the very beginning are equal and I hope Zlata Djurdjevic Because of his professional reputation and the splendor he now has [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] It won't fall into that trap. [[Break president: Thank you, colleague Oreshkovic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27630	We're going to the tenth debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Damir Habian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27631	Thank you very much, Your Honor, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here are the last days in the public's focus is the election of a president or president of the Supreme Court. I would say it's actually normal and common since it's about selecting the highest judicial officer in our judicial system, we know that the Supreme Court is the highest court in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the election of the Supreme Court president is not in the public's focus without its importance, but I would say, because of the strange, unprocedural, and I am afraid in some way, of an illegal procedure that was initiated by the candidate or candidate of the country. As is known, by the provision of Art. 44 a The Law on Courts, which entered into force by its amendment in 2018, is prescribed that the election procedure of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia shall be initiated by the State Judicial Council by publication of a public call no later than 6 months. before the term of office or no later than 30 days after the end of the term of office of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia for other reasons. Thus received applications, the State Judicial Council delivers the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia which will request an opinion on candidates from the General Session of the Supreme Court and the competent board of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, in accordance with the Constitution, according to the Law on Courts, the election procedure of the President of the Supreme Court began with the publication of a public call issued by the State Judiciary Council. The public call, as we know, has been made by three candidates, but the President has not chosen either of them and as far as it is known, has not formally informed the State Judiciary Council. However, the president proposed to the Croatian Assembly a candidate who did not make a public call, which was issued by the State Judiciary Council in accordance with the Law on Courts. It is clear and unequivocal that the President of the Republic of Croatia has thus acted against the provisions of the Law on Courts, and in this way such a procedure is described to propose a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court, we can say against the law. What is particularly surprising is for such a procedure, the president of the Republic of Croatia supports the SDP. It was precisely the SDP who, during the amendments and the addition of the Law on Courts when the law in question very clearly and unequivocally laid down the procedure for the election of the president, praised and supported those amendments, for example the parliamentary representative then, the former minister of justice, and now the head of the Office of Presidents said during the discussions on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts that it is certainly one of the best things that brings about the law governing the election of the President of the Supreme Court. We've been deficited so far, and that's a great shift. Now the question is raised which is the real SDP, the one from 2018 who advocated this procedure of electing the Supreme Court president or this SDP that advocates the illegal election of the Supreme Court president? The question is also raised, which is the real SDP president or colleague of Grbin, the one from 2018, who in this House called the new election procedure of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia a good solution or Mr. Grbin, who now supports the position of the President of the Republic of Croatia to propose a candidate for the Supreme Court under the law of the prescribed procedure? And it is not the first time the SDP has supported illegal solutions and the views of the president of the Republic of Croatia. Let us only remember their views on the Code of Criminal Procedure and on who can be informed of the findings and the pre-examinations. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club as always will advocate and advocate a clear and unequivocal implementation of the law, a law that has passed the House of Commons. In other words, the illegal process of proposing candidates will not and cannot support, and I suggest that my colleagues from the SDP read once again the legal solution of the Court Act which is 2018. They called it a good and quality solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27632	We've come to this end of our position. Now we will hear the third statement, it will be a respected colleague, Marija Selak Raspoudić, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27700	My colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm going to talk about something that has so far passed this pay phone, something that's happening in far away Chicago, but as far as we're concerned, it's much more than seemingly much closer to the issues we often waste our time on. There are no Croats who visited Chicago without feeling proud watching magnificent monuments to Indians the work of Croatian Cypriot genius Ivan Meštrovic, one of the artistic jewels in the city of great architecture and monumental heritage. For nearly a century, Meštrovic's Indians have been one of the most recognizable markers of the great American city. At least recently Chicago was unimaginable without its Indians, and then a strange time came in which ideologically scarred repairers of the past sought to cross cities and their monumental heritage to their narrow extent. From Chicago Monuments Project on the Monument to Indians Ivan Meštrovic wrote that the reduced display of Indians based on which they think about his further fate, or Meštrovićev's work as they stated on the pages, among those monuments in Chicago that need to be discussed. They suspect, therefore, that the masterpiece of sculpture is politically incorrect, impeccable, so if they succeed in their intentions, they are condemned to remove as something shameful. If that doesn't happen, the statue will forever wear a stain of politically incorrect which is already not a small damage for which compensation is not available. Since Karl Marx strongly condemned the Croats for their role in the asphyxiation of the revolution in Hungary in 1848. It is expected that his post-modern ideological followers, if the wave from America continues to spread further eastwards, will soon begin to look at the monument to Ban Jelačić, about the clerical Grgur of Nin, the gender stereotype history of Croats or King Tomislav, who reproduces the patriarchal pattern of the white man in the position of being able not to speak. The political reaction in Croatia to such a barbaric threat to the masterpiece of Croatia's largest sculptor was usually flaccid. The culture ministry is horrified, so they'll write them a letter to love us naively again saying it's a misunderstanding. When asked if the relevant ministry could in any way protect the monument or only an attempt to explain it, Obulen Koržinek replied that monuments in another country cannot be protected from here, and Ivan Meštrovic was also an American citizen. That's not enough. This is a political question and requires a political response, and it can only be the following, if the magnificent sculptures of an artist from Otavica, born in the area whose residents of Alberto Fortis in the Way of Dalmatia described you as some kind of Indian Europe. If, therefore, Meštrovic's "Indians" represent something embarrassing, unacceptable, in the extreme line unwanted, give them to us. In Europe torn apart by totalitarianisms of the 20th century, communism, fascism and Nazism, America was once rightly seen as a bearer of freedom and hope. Who could have thought that in the most advanced American cities in the 21st century we would witness totalitarian tendencies comparable to the Stalinist repair of party past. It's one of the more plastic examples on that trail of Stalin's government that deleted the photos from all the documents of the head of the Soviet secret police... After he fell into awe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you're going to fix your own past by removing what you're going to find unorthodox, let us fix our own. If history had anointed us more and had been luckier, Croatian Geni Meštrović would have spent his life in the homeland and his works like "Indians" would have been there. I will repeat, if you shame Meštrovic's "Indians", give them to us. Let them go back to where they came from. In the human and artistic universality that the repairers of the past deny, we will easily accept them. After all, this would not be the first of Meštrovic's work returned to Croatia. In Drnis there is a masterpiece of "The War of Life" bought by Meštrovic himself. Is our government ready to learn the same thing? Meštrović's "Indians" in which... The tiny and ideological eye sees only politics, the smart cultural policy should first of all see the artistic masterpiece, which exceeds the space and time in which it was created. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they're ballast in Chicago today, we'll be proud. Give them to us. This should not only be an artistic or patriotic cry but also an unequivocal political message that we expect our government to hear first, and then convey to the US administration. Which, if our interests were not only theoretically but following a goal, they would have done it long ago. Let the whole world know that the unwanted Meštrovic Croatia is waiting with open arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27701	Thank you very much. We are now going to the fourth debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Anja Simprag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27742	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Another area of Croatia with unique natural beauty awaits in line for the declaration of a certain degree of protection. One single, as they beat her, river Una springs in Zadar County, in Donjo Suvaya near Serbs. About the importance of the Union for the Licanes, it is heard only from the Lower Lapca and the Court that raised this issue in 2013, but to date, the only thing they know is that it is not in strategic development, a plan for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Recently, what we have witnessed here, nature park has been declared Dinara. With the right to ask what is wrong with their initiative to declare the Una Park of Nature. The largest depth to which the divers dived was in 2016 to a depth of 248 meters, which is also the new world record. In this way, the heat of the Una became the deepest researched karst spring in the Dinarid and the 5th deep source in the world. One river, two shores, and big differences. One of the banks in BiH, part of the national park, the other in Croatia, is exposed to devastion, desertion and oblivion. The wonder waterfalls of the UN in the upper current, in 2008 gained the status of the national park in BiH. As its value is protected in the neighbouring country, Una there becomes the backbone of the economic development of the western part of Bosnia, which is visited annually by up to 150 thousand tourists. A wider area of canyons is also protected as an ecological network. The area where this unique river starts is still '68. declared a hydrological monument of nature. The most beautiful waterfall of Une is Strbački buk, which as a tourist destination is not registered or is located on a tourist map. The fact that the Una National Park has been declared in BiH on the basis of sedated deposits, Una is common. Together, the rocks are saddled. Then why is Una in BiH a national park, and on this side is nothing? There is no parking lot near Strbačko Noise, no trail is arranged until the waterfall itself. This part of Croatia is hermetically closed towards neighbouring Bosnia, from the border crossing of Užljebić near Bihać to Strmica near Knin, we do not have an open border crossing within 130 km. The opening of Martin Brod would also open tourist routes from the National Park of Una in Bosnia, according to the UN source in Suvaja and Strbački noise on the Croatian side. It would be fantastic assumptions for a serious development of tourism. From Martin Brod in the national park, a village with the largest raft complex in the Union, a total of 124, a source of Una is only 15 km away, but as the Martin Brod border crossing is closed, tourists from the national park to the source of the Una, must cross as many as 115 km because they have to go around, around the Bosnian Petrovac, Bihać, Užlebić, Donji Lapca, to get to Suvaja near the Serbs. The view of those few inhabitants of this region is against the future, the declaration of nature parks, and the greater possibility of the placements of their organic products, as well as the development of tourism. The initiative was supported by the UN National Park in Bosnia because there is a real possibility and a danger of building an industrial plant, so that the protected values of this national park on the right side are at risk. It's all one river, the same world. I'll finish my presentation by the words of my acquaintance, the Lover of the Un. "We lost a step in time a long time ago, only Una goes forward. Una has outlived everything so far, she will outlive all our wars and hatreds and when we are gone, she will continue to flow completely calmly." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27787	Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27788	Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear pensioners, especially those retired before 1 January 2019 What I'm going to talk about is a contribution to women's equality on the occasion of International Women's Day. Divide and rule, old Rome is gone, but that principle, that strategy will live forever. There is no protest and there will be no protest because all groups are broken, just as Caesars love. Even the pensioners were not helped by the wisdom that comes with grays, they were given to divide, and now part of the time they yell at each other instead of yelling at those who are worse together. The Croatian pension system has many disadvantages, and there are many examples for this, and it is evidence that for the amount of pension it is more important for the retirement date than for the internship or payment. Caricated, maybe, but there's too many exceptions and division amongst the pensioners, 18 categories. Old until 1999, new until 2016, new two-stage from 2016, from 2014 an old pension without pensioning 60/41, but they were previously retired, so this is a picture of our pension system. One of the newer divisions was established by the introduction of a parental, motherly internship, adding six months per child to a total completed retirement internship, since not all mothers had the right to do so. It's inadmissible. Any amendments and additions to the law withdraws a period of time, and so this right applies to mothers retired until 1 January 2019. Mothers who retired before that date are damaged and wonder why their education is worth less. Such a change is followed by some European trends in the pension system, pension insurance, is part of an innovative policy against poverty, is certainly welcome and well-intentioned. We often compare ourselves with an insurance internship with countries that include motherhood, study, military deadline, and we who do not always say that we have little insurance training. But let's move on, in order to reduce the gap between men and women's pensions, an additional gap has been created, an additional distinction between retired women, so that they, or not to argue with each other at all, I will argue for them here after this pay phone. Today I'm going to refer the bill in which I'm looking, in a parliamentary procedure, of course, in which I'm asking that, I repeat, a good measure be applied to all the mothers of retirement. It requires some money in the budget, but it's much less than the pain of a mother's heart because of an injustice that, you imagine, has been done to them by law. Inadmissible. Therefore, pensioners, pensioners and pensioners, raise your voice, now before the election, that this injustice may be corrected. Support this law because the rights it makes for women mothers, they will use as long as they are alive, and that is a lot, a lot, a lot, an incomparably more than one-time aid that has been offered lately at local and national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27807	We're going to the fifth debate, IDS Representatives' Club, dear colleague Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27808	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Since the beginning of this pandemic, we have been appealing to the government and to the national headquarters to introduce a regional approach in Croatia and to delegate greater powers to the civil protection county headquarters, which have proved to be able to manage this crisis in their own field with their work and quality assessments and reactions. But most of those appeals were nothing. The state persistently pushes the centralist governance model even though the model has proved countless times spent and missed, and is particularly inappropriate to address this unremembered health crisis and to allow tourist regions to prepare for the upcoming tourist season. Fortunately, there are countries in Europe that are thinking and working systematically and thoroughly and not from situation to situation, so last week we had opportunities to see that Germany has declared Istria and several other Croatian counties, safe zones for travel. It is amazing that some neighbouring EU member states are making more favourable decisions for our citizens than we are for ourselves. It may also encourage those responsible in Croatia to finally examine the way they deal with this pandemic and to see positive European examples. What is particularly worrying is that Croatia currently has a record and historical decline in GDP and economic activity that shows that this crisis is obviously going to be much longer than we expected together. And instead of making an emergency plan of activity and how to prepare and save the upcoming tourist season, we see that decisions are made too slowly and when something is decided, it is usually only half a solution to the problem. The tourist season is expected to be better than the last season and we do nothing to make it happen. The state acts as if our Mediterranean competitors will sleep winter or summer sleep and just let everyone who wants to travel this year come to us for a vacation. More than ever, there is a struggle for every guest's arrival, and it needs to be made aware at all levels and in time to make decisions in order to prepare ourselves quality. Also, there are too many expectations that EU financial assistance will solve all our problems. He won't. If we ourselves do not promote economic growth through our decisions and measures, then we will not be helped by European money. Public debt is already too large and continues to grow rapidly and unless something drastic changes, Croatia will face a debt crisis of historical proportions in the coming period. I'm saying all of this not because I want to spread pessimism, but on the contrary, to wake up in time and realize that this economic crisis will not solve itself when warmer and nicer days come. And that money from the EU will also not change that. It's up to us to seriously roll our sleeves so we can finally move forward. That is why we need a good atmosphere and enthusiasm but not that this is based on false promises from ruling citizens who create unrealistic expectations that all problems will be solved on their own. Such an irresponsible approach will ultimately lead to the great disappointment of citizens in politics and further collapse of confidence in institutions. The problems of the Croatian economy can only be solved on the basis of a clear and enforceable plan and the implementation of the necessary changes primarily with their own resources and their own abilities and only afterwards, through European means. It is therefore high time that all together, or government, start making decisions that are for the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27829	Thank you. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. The beginning of our plenary session as every Wednesday, we begin with the presentation of the position of representatives' clubs and independent representatives and MPs. The first is today the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists and respected counterpart Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27830	Thank you very much, good morning, everyone. Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to the legislative change for flying drones in the EU area that came into force 1. 1. In 2021, it is related to the use and flying of open-air drones applied to almost all drones currently being placed on the market, or which operators and pilots are flying in the EU area. Of course, Croatia is part of this story, especially because of our circumstances in tourist activity. The rules were supposed to be equal for everyone at EU level, which was a fundamental assumption by the European Aviation Safety Agency, which is unfortunately not the case with us. We have further complicated the procedure because our laws often overlap, let's start from the beginning. In the Republic of Croatia there are 3 institutions that are related to drone flying, Croatian Civil Aviation Agency, Croatian Aviation Control and the State Geodetic Administration. In Croatia you must minimum pass the pilot's examination of the A1 and A3 qualifications so that you can fly legally with it and in addition, the drone must have a valid insurance policy. Although according to some other European regulations, this shelf is required for 20 kg drones, it is slightly different for us, even small 250 g drones that often belong to the category of toys must be provided with insurance policies. The cost of insurance for small drones is almost in the class of motorcycle insurance or a working machine. If you want to fly a drone, you're required to report flight control. Through the application of the AMC portal you simply register and if you have a passed exam for the drone pilot, you can get permission very quickly to fly up to 120 meters. Allowed flying close to people is minimal, at a horizontal distance of 50 m and it is very good as regards safety regulated and it is for every praise, and a flying permit itself if you meet these conditions and it is not a problem and protection of airspace security and citizens are well regulated by protective mechanisms. Where the problem arises in Croatia is the absurdd of our legal rules lies in the third part of the regulation that is characteristic of us and that is the permission to record from the geodetic administration i.e. implementation of the air recording regulation. This part of the law is obviously the rest of some of the past times where everything has been controlled and strictly limited or the relic has remained all the way from Yugoslavia. I don't think it's appropriate to have that kind of law nowadays. In the law itself, there is discrimination that allows air images only to be obtained by legal persons and forbids natural persons for an unknown or illogical reason. ... According to the Law on Defence in the Air Recording Regulation, they cannot be authorised, and recorded without authorisation unless they work for a media house or have a registered air recording company, then you may request a licence, otherwise not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At a time when our economy and prosperity depend on our tourism industry, we prevent a free and highly effective commercial of our natural beauty and country due to these absurd laws. We know that one image speaks often more than 1,000 words, let us look at just as an example of the video of I. Kostelic on Youtube and the commercial made by his video of the Drone of the island of Mljet. And now for example, if a tourist, for example. comes on a trip to Zagreb, Split or national park of any of our own, from Plitvice Lakes to Krka, and wants to record those memories from the air, while adheres to legal frameworks and flight permits, he must not do so as a natural person, but only with prior approval from the State Geodetic Administration as a legal person, i.e. that he has a registered company that publishes these recordings and gets from them the permission of those same videos. The absurdity of this regulation cannot be greater if we know that Google and others today regularly record the entire planet to detail as well as many passengers from the aircraft filming Croatia, and they would have to ask for approval and pay for the recording from the State Geodetic Administration. If you are, for example. tourist from Slovenia and where, for example, For drone magic mini, weight is 240 years, which is a little harder than some toy, you don't have to take the exam and you don't need to secure your drone. If you will come to Croatia and fly a drone as a home, you are actually flying and filming with us illegally, regardless of the rules of the European Aviation Safety Agency... easier flying within the EU border. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In short, the message of these regulations is that one who is not professionally involved in air recording in Croatia does not need to obtain a drone, although the European Commission also predicts that by 2035 the European drone sector will directly employ more than 100,000 people and have an economic impact of more than 10 billion euros per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u27831	Thank you very much. So we're going to the agenda. First point: - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Biofuels Act for transport, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 118 The Proposer is the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of the above-mentioned bill, the respected State Secretary Ivo Milatic is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38131	Thank you, Mr. President HS. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. In front of you are the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels Act for Transport and those amendments and additions to this Act, they are proposed to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in line with the common European policy in the section relating to the use of renewable energy in transport. The entry into a new decade in front of Member States sets new targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, including the specific objective of using renewable energy in transport. The Law on biofuels for transport as a new sustainable energy has so far seen more changes in order to continue to comply with European legislation. Until 2020. so the obligation of the Republic of Croatia was to use 10% of energy from renewable sources in transport. The additional legislation is harmonised when stricter sustainability conditions are introduced for biofuels placed on the market. Thus, their production today must not compete with food production or have a negative impact on the use of certain types of land. They would point out that in the last three years, the Republic of Croatia has drawn closer to the target set, and in particular it has contributed to the obligation to use renewable electricity in public transport. These amendments and additions to the law represent a continuity that needs to ensure that the new objective is reached from 14% of renewable energy in transport by 2030. This objective was introduced in the European legislative area before and after Directive 2009/28 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Directive 2018/2001 of 11 December 2018. It is a directive on promoting the use of renewable energy as part of the energy package for a new decade. The basis for amending and supplementing the law is set out in Regulation 2018/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018. on the management of the energy Union and climate action, which is prescribed to develop national action plans, i.e. integrated national energy and climate plans, which we call NECP in short. Since NECP has become a basic document of energy planning, it is also in line with this legislative proposal, in accordance with the Directive of 2018. provided that Member States show the indicative route of increasing renewables in transport by 2030. and to establish a obligation for distributors and suppliers of petrol and diesel fuels in accordance with this indicative path, and to monitor the annual achievement of the targets over the next 10 years. The calculation of the indicative trajectory shall be based on the methodology specified relating to the quality and quantity of the placing of certain types of biofuels, the methods and sustainability of the production of biofuels, the conditions of production of raw materials for biofuels, and the obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout the cycle from the production and processing of certain raw materials to the end of application. The criteria and methods of balance and proof of other forms of renewable energy in transport such as hydrogen and electricity are also prescribed. It is important to note that, in addition to the distributor or supplier of petrol and diesel fuels, the bonds of the renewable energy system are all public transport actors where it is mandatory to use exclusively renewable electricity and cities and units of regional self-government which are also responsible for increasing renewable energy in transport, including the development of alternative infrastructure. These amendments to the law add to public road and rail transport where more green hydrogen is expected to be used in the future. The main amendments and additions to this law and the objectives they wish to achieve can be summarised in the following, creating a prerequisite for meeting the stated objective of 14% of renewable energy in transport by 2030 and indicative pathways by combination of two activities, i.e., regulation of obligations for the parties to the bonds or distributors of diesel and petrol fuels, to place renewable energy on the market in the form of biofuels, advanced biofuels, renewable energy or hydrogen, or renewable energy on the market, amounting to 11.14 in 2013 in line with the NESP and regulation of public transport fuel users and public sector obligations of 2.86% in 2030. Over the years, the prescribed obligation has been gradually increased and in 2030, as I said, before it is 11,14 obligations will have to be met by suppliers while 2,86 plans will be met through the public transport sector. The next objective is to include measures to promote energy efficiency in transport and measures to build public infrastructure for alternative fuels, in plans for the counties and cities in the design of public policy measures, and to develop projections for the use of renewable sources in transport in public services, which should be notified by the ministry. The obligation to plan and report renewable sources in transport in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/1999 and to register biofuels and other renewable energy according to sustainability requirements and greenhouse gas reductions shall be laid down by at least 6%. We are in line with the provisions of Directive 2018/2001 relating to the quantities, the quality and the way in which certain biofuels, advanced fuels and other renewable energy sources are placed for transport and the same Directive refers to raw materials for the production of biofuels, advanced biofuels and fuels, or other renewable energy sources for transport in terms of their origin and sustainability of the processing or production. An important part of the reporting at European level will therefore refer to data that will be able to demonstrate the traceability of raw materials and the sustainability of biofuel production. Furthermore, the law lays down the obligation to pay a special environmental fee for non-market biofuels and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The same obligation is extended to the obligation to use electronic energy and hydrogen from renewable energy sources in the transport sector. We expect the proposed legislative changes to have a positive impact on the increase in electricity since gas and diesel distributors will be able to justify their obligations by delivering renewable electricity or hydrogen on their own charging facilities. This measure will speed up the construction of alternative infrastructure and increase the number of chargers of electric vehicles right in the section of the retail of classical fuels. Consequently, investment in green energy production at the very site of petrol stations will be encouraged. The measures of these policies will significantly contribute to a total increase in the share of renewable resources in the Republic of Croatia, projected by 2030 to 36.6% since transport participates with a high 30% in the final and direct consumption of energy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38132	Let's go with the replicas. First up, buddy Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38133	Thank you very much. Constantly copying regulations and directives that have the EU's noble objectives, green energy, policies. In this case, in the case of biofuels for transport, I consider a farce of this government because the fact that we're talking about biofuels is at the same time you're on a cross in 8 counties in the Dinarids is a Croatian oil exploration. Here, a few questions for you. How much in Croatia is the area for production, so far, in the Republic of Croatia, the area in the production of biofuels, and I will also say one example that is very eclant. Today, in Croatia, you transport students by buses older than 50 years of age who burn every day. Who use oil, which they use, not to go forward, but you are not, not for biofuels and renewable sources and the protection of greenhouse gases, but you are for the destruction of environmentals. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38134	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38135	Thank you for your question. As far as biofuels are concerned in Croatia, we are now in terms of meeting our goals at almost 7%, so a certain progress has taken place over the past 3.4 years, resulting from the government's activities and in the application of this law. As for areas that are capable of being used to grow biofuel raw materials, here in this esteemed House a year ago and a few days ago, a law that allows it is exclusively about soils that would be for that kind of cultivation, not for food farming. As far as I'm concerned, that's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38136	Comrade Bull, you've raised your hand, I'm guessing a request for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38137	Yeah, on behalf of the Bridge Club, I'm looking for a break on this very important issue means transportation, i.e. the use of biofuels in transport. Once again, I must say that I must call for green policies, to use alternative fuels to reduce greenhouse gases, to reduce fossil fuels, while at the same time you are giving foreign investors the opportunity to drill, explore, both our Adriatic and this part of Dinarid. Fossil fuels, we're talking, we're talking about reducing fossil fuels, these are regulations that we're effectively copying, and we're doing nothing. You are calling for transport, transport infrastructure to use alternative fuels or from renewable sources. So look at the situation we're in, I repeat again. As far as we're concerned, Minister of Environment Coric and Economy, your minister is telling the fact that from Vrgorec, waste from municipal waste, waste which should be money you carry 120 km to Sinj, along the Cetina River with old trucks i.e. Communals that are leaking fuel, which are falling apart, gasoline is not gasoline, it's oil. It means to me to create infrastructure for this then you have to tell me how Croatia will produce biofuel, in which way it will use solar energy, in which ways and models. It means what you're proposing to us except for the prescription of regulations and directives. We don't have a tribune copying that can be very simple to solve, find one translator, and it'll be okay. Here's a colleague I see here from HDZ spinning his head. Go to Obrovac, go to Knin and see the lagoons, see how they behave around the environment and nature. Yeah, nature protection. to alternative fuels, but this government is doing nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38138	Thank you very much. I'll give you 10 hours and 45 minutes. It's 10:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.48 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38140	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State A few years ago, 3 biofuel production factories in Croatia, Biodizel Vukovar, Modibit and Vitrex were closed. They produced 90,000 tonnes of biofuels annually, which was still insufficient at the time, and were closed due to unfair competition that bought raw materials under more favourable conditions due to high loads. I wonder how Croatia now stands with plans for its own production biofuels? How many tons are we importing? And how many companies are involved in the collection, care and transportation of waste or raw materials from which biofuels can be produced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38141	Thank you. It is true that we in Croatia had these two factories. And they are closed for the simple reason that then Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic simply promptly abolished the incentives that these factories were originally promised and they were simply closed and later these factories sued the Republic of Croatia and it cost millions of dollars, I think, somewhere around 15 or 17 million kuna. 17 million kunas cost us that we paid for it as a state. And those factories shut down and they didn't work anymore. Today they can work for me, but they just obviously have no interest in me for what reasons. We can't influence that, and the rest of the biofuel is now imported into the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38142	Now it's my colleague Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38143	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, absolute support for these amendments and additions to the law. We must normally also coordinate all of this in order to monitor the national development strategy itself by 2030 and the objectives we have set, as well as the European Green Plan. And normal support and this ambitious 14% renewable energy plan in transport. But I'm interested in your opinion. I think that this ambitious objective of 14% could be the most achieved by the introduction of electric vehicles, i.e. by means of a concrete opinion of the Ministry itself. by facilitating the purchase of electric vehicles themselves because today in Croatia the share of electric vehicles is 0.042%. I think the suspension, for example. The VAT on the purchase of electric vehicles would get one significant and sudden step in the procurement of such vehicles, I wonder if the ministry is going in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38144	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38145	Thank you for your replica. As far as the ambitious goal is concerned, we clearly intend to reach it among other things that I did not respond to for the sake of time in the previous issue and by establishing or building a new biorefinery that is planned in Sisak, which we intend to encourage from the national recovery plan. As far as electric vehicles are concerned, this year we plan to invest 100 million kunas in the purchase of electric vehicles, which is significantly, significantly more than we have these years. The fact that we do not only intend to achieve this through electric vehicles, we mean by investing a large amount of money and through the national recovery plan in the charging facilities because our goals will be achieved not only by having vehicles in Croatia but also by electric vehicles coming and driving the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38146	Now it's time for a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38147	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, therefore one of the topics of this law and the result that must be the reduction of CO2. The topic of general decarbonisation is something that is extremely important and that is extremely important in all strategies. In April 2020, the draft low-carbon development strategy for the Republic of Croatia for the period until 2030, with a view to 2050, was in public view, i.e. in e-consultation. It is one of the strategies that has been assessed as extremely important. I wonder where we are, what we are, what's the problem, where we go from here? So, you know as well as I do that our strategy is based, behind these strategies we have action plans. I don't think any strategy was carved into stone, but some basics we need. Have for further. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38149	Thank you. Clearly, this law and all our laws in energy and climate are aimed at reducing CO2. As far as this strategy is concerned, which you mentioned logically is that it is, in the procedure now that the main strategy has been adopted, it means the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 with a view to 50. We have all the documents adopted, and that is also the National Energy Climate Plan and this and this strategy is meant to be made and will be adopted very soon. So she's just going to follow that trend that's been set up in all these basic documents. So I just don't think there's any reason to suspect that this climate strategy and others will not be included in all these documents that we've brought in as a state so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38150	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38151	Dear secretaries, let me remind you, these factories were in charge of the Ministry of Economy and it was abolished by Vrdoljak, not Linic, the incentive for these factories and they were closed, but not during that government but closed in 2018. So you had time in 2015, '16, '17. And in '18. The year encourages you to let these factories survive. That's the first thing. The second thing I wanted to ask you is that you have transposed the Directives that were adopted in 2015 into our laws in 2018, the Directives that were adopted in 2021, as we have done with the preparation for the production of biofuels, or for the production of biomass for the production of biofuels in Croatia. Is it since we don't have factories right now that we've at least done something to secure raw materials for the production of that biomass?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38152	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38153	Once again, Vrdoljak was the economy minister, the finance minister who proposed the budget and who simply did not provide for the funds was Mr Linic. I just told the truth the way it was. Mr. Vrodjak can't pay for the incentives if he doesn't have that incentive in his budget and that's how it was, and that's it. And as for raw materials and everything else needed for biofuels tomorrow, I told you that the Ministry of Agriculture has passed all the positive regulations that allow Croatian farmers to be large companies and smaller companies to develop projects or to develop plantations for biofuels. The basic thing is this, in order to have biofuel raw materials you have to have somewhere near the factory because it simply doesn't pay to transport it at a large distance and then the biofuel itself is lost because large CO2 is spent on transport. So we must first develop a factory to develop agriculture parallelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38154	We are now going to the replica of Col. Simicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38155	I thank the president of HS. Dear Secretary, here I support this proposal of yours for these changes, and we must do everything possible to be energy independent, but also to preserve the environment for future generations. I would ask you here, or problematize the ratio of energy, ecosystem and economy, do these biodiesel or renewable energy sources in a technological sense cost much more than these energy products that are being used today and how do they compensate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38156	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38157	Thank you. As for costing and not costing, I am not such a profession as to explain this in detail now, but certainly the price of fuel, biofuels and fuel is installed in the price of a litre of diesel or gasoline so that they have the technological price they have. What is important to mention is that these technologies are getting better and cleaner, taking care of the raw materials used to make these biofuels, taking care of where these raw materials come from, is there no point in us as a state importing biofuels that would actually have harmful raw materials and where CO2 footprints are much larger. And that is why this law introduces a detailed reporting of all taxpayers where this will be able to closely monitor and stop any such speculative introduction into the EU and in Croatia of such fuels.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38158	Thank you. Now let's go to the replica of the esteemed colleague Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38159	Thank you. Here's the clue of what is the resource for biofuel production, which means if it's biomass waste and if it serves as a resource in this process, my question is why isn't the ministry's entire regulatory environment that's going to be a waste that's part of that biomass, too, treated as a resource? Why does it matter? Because citizens pay for that energy three times, so we pay for it by paying for example, for example, the City of Zagreb only one biogas industry will pay more than 100 million kuna in two years for the transport of biowaste. They produce biogas from it and are privileged producers of electricity, and therefore they still have a subsidized electricity price and then we are finally paying for the product. So, three times we're paying for something and we're still paying for it and we're moving resources. So I believe that if biowaste is in this part of the resource and biomass that it should be treated both in the price of waste for households and reduced that waste price for households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38160	All that you've said is regulated by the current regulations and it's just as it is, we make sure that when it comes to biofuels that the traceability of raw materials is closely monitored. And as for this part where you mention the situation in the City of Zagreb and the departure and payment of exports, these are obviously practices that do not exist only in Zagreb but also in other European countries. What we're going to do, which is that when it comes to biofuels, that part is perfectly transparently done so that biofuels don't actually be more harmful than useful as reducing CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38161	I'd like to ask my dear colleague, Selak Rasdic, for the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38162	I'd like to ask you for an explanation. Namely, the assessment of the situation explains that the 10% target for 2020 has not yet been achieved. Since this objective has been difficult to achieve by the directive, increased factors that multiply electricity from renewable sources and road consumption from 2.5 to 5 and rail transport from 1 to 2.5. Does this mean that it simply changed the formula to make it seem that the goal can be achieved while in practice everything remains the same or does that mean something else? Because the way I understand it, it turns out we don't actually have green policies, but we're going to change the formula so we can have a vision for implementing green policies in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38163	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38164	You're absolutely wrong, it's no illusion, and it's no tampering. This is about the following, we, together with electricity, have managed about one 7%, and not 10, and this problem is that we didn't get to 10, and what we have in the law already in past changes is a multiple factor, that means according to the European directive, this multiplication of factors is actually a stimulation that renewable electricity is used in transport, that simple energy from a litre of bogo is the same energy that is worth five times that one litre or one unit of biofuels, and that's so by the directive, and that's so logical, since the infrastructure at the gas stations to build should be invested a large part of the money and it's clear that this part of stimulating the taxpayers that they go in that direction, clearly with our further support for these investments themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38165	Thank you. And the last line, colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38166	Thank you, Chairman. Well, in your presentation, you have highlighted the continuity of the amendments to our legislation that we have been approaching EU directives, and I see progress and positive steps in the Republic of Croatia towards a greener economy. However, what I miss, I lack concrete statistics on whether and to what extent have we really, with all these legislative changes, increased the use of renewable energy sources in transport, so I am interested in what are the government's concrete plans, what concrete measures are we going to take in this direction? In fact, the legislation that we are now building is indeed similar and increasingly similar to the EU, but our practice is significantly deviating from it. I wish that discretion was less.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38167	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38168	The statistics are absolutely clear here, so until the beginning of the previous government and this government, we had not even 1.5% of the share of biofuels in transport or renewable sources in transport. We ended up last year with almost 7%. So the statistics are clear here. At the age of four, we managed to make that kind of progress, why? Because of what we would say, we have just brutally advocated the implementation of the previous law, the directive, everything else, set up a system of debtors, set up a control system and set up a system for the collection of foames or environmental charges, 260 million kuna has been paid into the Environment Fund on this basis, which will return to the biofuels targets, i.e. for renewable sources in transport for the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38169	Thank you. Thank you, Secretary of State, we're done with the replicas so you can return to your post and we'll now ask the committee's rapporteurs if they want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we'll go to the debate, first in line, honorary colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the Center and GLASs Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38170	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers. Therefore, we have before us amendments and additions to the Biofuels Act for transport. It's about the basic law that was from 2009 and we're already having this one of the 5th, 56th changes, I'm going to have this debate a little formal and something small and essential. So that part, maybe the time has come for us to have a new law, maybe it would be simpler for us to follow it all together, but well, you've decided on this method. Among other things, we are in line with EU directives and everything ok, and we have a series of regulations and regulations which were based on the 2009 laws, the last amendment was in 2018, and in this transitional provision in Article. 28. Again, it is seen that there is a period within which both the rules and the regulations and everything else must be complied with in order to be used. And now we're getting to the point. Out there in 2000, I got an excellent calendar which one of our distinguished artists worked for and this calendar was how to use and for what things can be used in 2000 is a question, so 21 years ago, for which waste can be used, for which wind, tide, axis and everything else can be used, because then the Croatian Fire Institute made an analysis of how and what we can use. It was a good-looking calendar for me, it was one of the ones I left behind because he looked good and made a joke about it all together, and recently in one of the preambles I looked at again, and I looked at those books that Hrvoje Fire made back then, to see where we are now. We can talk theoretically about a series of things, we can show the percentages as we want, but we're in reality somewhere else. It is not surprising, therefore, that we also have a provision in this law that says that, of course, biofuels can also be produced from sources that are not all in the territory of Croatia but can also be imported, so I guess we'll also be able to import waste. But what's the point of all this? So every time I read any law, then I'm interested in the goal, I'm interested in meaning, and I'm wondering if it's really realistic to make it happen. So the ultimate goal is to take care of climate change that is real, the ultimate goal is that it has this dimension of non-carbonisation, the ultimate goal is to be more environmentally acceptable, aware, to show that we are as a country, how are we going to do that? How realistic is it to make it happen? So the goal of achieving 10% by 2020 was unrealistic. How did we achieve the goal of having some of the energy from renewable sources that are called the moment the water became a renewable source, so we could show all the hydropower plants? We, in general, have a relationship with environmental protection which is no longer a trend in environmental protection, we have stopped, it is not a trend or sustainable development, but it is actually a trend to deal with and confront climate change, we are actually wandering around all the time. And for some time there was a hit of the wind power plant. And every county plan must have had 20 halves for the wind power plants, then it turned out that it wasn't, and then the solarists didn't get much of a hold of it. Then at one point, we had a biofuel factory that was shut down because of the subsidies they were promised. So, you shut down the factory and move on. A fellow secretary of state knows a lot about it because he was either an assistant minister or a secretary of state, I think in the past four governments if I'm not mistaken, and then he can talk about this one continuity through all the governments that the government has done or hasn't done. My son, who finished engineering and doctored on engines that they have, which can use both standard fuel and fossil and biofuel. And of course I can't even tell you how his doctorate is, and I don't understand it. I'm the only question I had. You tell me if it can be done. It just depends on what industry decides to invest in it and how much you are, how much money you're willing to give for it. So that was one question that was related to it, so the energy that cost it is renewable. And that doesn't have a dilemma at all. Electric vehicles, let's figure it out to the end. So, as far as the car industry is going to decide in electric vehicles, it's going to be better. You have two problems in electric vehicles, and we need to know now and try to solve it now. One problem is electricity. So, they don't fill up from the air. If you have chargers, you have more electricity consumption, if you have more electricity consumption you need to know from where to produce it. Let's just say I absolutely think it would be elemental if any multi-state building in the basement had a garage that had a place to charge electric cars. So, they're absolutely something, but we need to know, we need to know if at some point on our roads we have 100,000 electric cars, how much it's an increase in electricity that means to us in some other element. You have another topic about electric cars against which I think it's good. You have a dark battery, there's a theme about copper batteries, you have a theme about who's making that copper, and then someone's going to import, export, or I don't know what's not and you have a theme of waste. So your problem is in electric cars, so these batteries, which is the way you take care of waste. So you need to put all that stuff on paper and make up your mind. So if we decided that the Energy Efficiency Fund and environmental protection finance electric, then we decided to take care of all other things. Not in five years, so we're surprised, the paper suffers everything we can write on that paper. So we can have great laws, they can be in line with EU directives, it can be all great, but let's see in reality what it means now, because we've already tried and failed many times. So on the one hand, we're going to finance everything about electric vehicles all right, so there's one more thing that's listed in this law that we need to take care of. It's a public transport. So, who, in terms of global general pollution, those who disgust, are wrongly speaking, so I'm even trying to find the right word, which are contaminants. So, in public transport, railways that we don't have too much, air transport where there's still a theme that fuel can be and shipping. So when you get a little deeper into all of this together, in shipping ships are one of the first to start using biofuels. What happened to them? The algae developed in these large tanks because they have large tanks because, of course, a ship that sails from the river to Australia doesn't fit a little bit along the way, so something gets better. So all of this is a subject that we need to take care of. I'm one of which will be the first to stand up for all options. We are a small country, we have a plan that we are really allowing, and we have EUR 6 billion at our disposal, so big money. It's called the recovery plan and the resistance plan. What matters to me in that plan is the resistance plan. I absolutely think that we have to develop, we have had this strong ecological, ecological element, that one of these things really is that we take care and that the traffic is environmentally acceptable to us at all, but we need to know what we want, we need to know where we're going. We don't have any biofuel factories at this point, we don't. I can agree with the secretary of state when you produce something that will be for that factory you have to have a factory because you won't produce so transport will cost you more than production. But the moment we make decisions, and we have to make decisions not because we want to or won't, not because we're wandering or not wandering because we're part of a big project called the EU, and they're going to make us do some things. We just need to know what we want. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38171	Thank you. Now it is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38172	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected promoter, colleagues and colleagues, in Sibenik-Knin County, there is, more precisely, a Regional Centre for Waste Management of Bikarac, which is one of the most modern, best and advanced in Croatia, where hundreds of millions of kuna have been invested and now has one huge multimillion investment where large factory halls would be made to select waste on biological, organic and inorganic waste and which would then be properly taken care of. And now that he's separated, he takes care of you in a few ways, for example. Your paper is being driven to Belisce and that's the cost of actually collecting and everything and the cost of transportation, there's no profit, but okay, so we removed the paper from the environment. As for organic waste there's no vision, so we're not going to produce that biofuel there's no vision and then all that sort of thing that sort of sort of sort of drives you, you know where, in Austria. And then we bring the speedboats and the speedboats of that sort of junk in Austria and pay the Austrians for what they're taking, and then the Austrians make all that stuff, you know what, energy. And now I don't know if you understand me? So we pay them and give them energy and those with the help of that energy that is among other things and biofuels are produced they are heated for example, or they produce electricity, or they put that biofuel in car tanks. Now I wonder if we have the same interest in keeping the Austrians as warm as the Croats, to keep the Croats warm? I think that our primary interest should be to the Croats and Croats, or to our citizens of our country of Croatia, warmly, and to the Austrians more or less. But I think to me as if we're Caritas, we could actually change the name of the state into a caritative Republic because for those of you who haven't figured out I'll repeat the third time what we're doing, but this is one of the most advanced and well-organized regional waste management centres, and so will the rest of us. So instead of having our own burners, to process it with ourselves and to produce biofuels and then biofuels to that biofuel we start cars and to satisfy that 14% as much as we have to, we're all our selected garbage, and we've spent millions of kunas on the selection, we drive to Austria, we pay the Austrians what they took, and then they don't put it on the dump, but they're doing what we could do. So I have repeated the same story three times to make it clear to you to your colleagues and colleagues, to you as a promoter, but also to the entire Croatian public. I think we're doing something out of our minds and I'm asking you, therefore, that this story of mine is what I said you should respect and think about whether the waste in Croatia is being taken care of in a proper and adequate way and does this make any sense? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38173	The third will speak on behalf of Representatives' Club Most respected counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38174	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Renewable energy sources are very important and biofuels, we are talking in transport here, but the fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, as regards renewable sources, we can go for example. It is not biofuels, but it is part of this topic to increase the use of renewable sources in Krš-Padene. It is one of the more criminal projects to harm the Croatian people, and on this biofuel, we must think about being in favour of the people, not against the people and foreign investors. The Minister of Environmental Threat Coric when he prescribes this regulation then we must ask ourselves what he is doing, what decisions he makes together with the inspectorate that I mentioned earlier did not solve the problem not only of the green policies to which the European Commission is called, the European Council, our prime minister who has great relations with European factors, as he says in his own words, but green policies in the Republic, and in particular as regards biofuels are not at, I mean, it's so superficial, I think it's a great dish, the goals may be noble, renewable sources are very important, the reduction of fossil fuels is very important, the reduction of greenhouse gases is very important, but when I look at these policies, here is the mentioning of waste management. Here I'm just thinking how it's possible that 120km of minister to meet some European conditions that we have in order not to pay for the foams have had to be removed, the rehabilitated centres where the waste is collected, the current waste dumps that money is the one from Vrgorec 120km on the highway sent from Vrgorec municipal waste to the same sanitary conditions as in Vrgorac in Sinj and it is delayed in this way. So, old vehicles, 20, 30 years old, on the highway, you know how much exhaust gas it is, how much damage it is, how much greenhouse gases are increasing, we're using fossil fuels, and at the same time when we're calling for these 14%, then biofuels in traffic, then we're wondering how it's possible that we gave foreign investors to explore our Dinarides in the area of eight counties that will be able to use fossil fuels, I'm saying now that we're using fossil fuels, which we're running politics? Are we going to give foreign investors our fossil fuels because if there's fossil fuels in the study then they'll be able to use 20, 30 years of this, they'll be able to use this fossil fuel. Comrade Boric, I see you're waving your head, that you mean you approve of mine. Bushe Dinara, Velebit, not just mountains that are significant for everything,... but it was declared a park of nature. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, recently this Parliament has declared these areas a park of nature. So we need to define, not only copy regulations, directives, EU legislation, but we need to apply it. We must apply it and look exclusively at the interest of people, and increasing renewable resources in the Republic of Croatia is only an example of Krš-Pađen which is a harmful project, to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is one of the first decisions made by Minister Coric when he became in this portfolio, the first decision to launch the project that will cost Croatian citizens 2 billion kuna. So our potentials as well as our biofuels, I've asked you questions about you, Secretary of State, we have our potential, I'm interested in how many agricultural areas are now being processed or how much is it used to produce biofuels? And our funds are made available in the EU funds, it's about huge money. Nothing. Or very little. At the same time, I agree that agricultural land is very important for food production. However, we have 700 thousand hectares of raw agricultural land that could partly be used in agriculture and biofuels. So that green policy in the Republic of Croatia and renewable sources, the increase of renewable sources tells everything, for example, I will repeat the wind power plants Krš-Paden that cost Croatian citizens... Did you ever hear the coalition partners of the ruling SDSS that he ever mentioned, Milorad Pupovac Krsh-Pared? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Have you ever... Is there any of them? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are people who have difficulty living, the Serb national minority, our fellow citizens, political Croats because they live in Croatia are left at the mercy and mercy and in the ecological sense, if you saw what it looks like, whether it's next to the house. And get have, who? Foreign investors. Then this morning I listen to my colleague Shimprag on behalf of the SDSS Club crying over, crying out, crying out to the sky over the environment in Lica, on our waters, and at the same time, the parish was all the time in Sibenik-Knin County. So green policies must be for the benefit of Croatian citizens, not for the benefit of foreign investors, mainly renewable energy sources. In addition, our infrastructure, we have to transport, to use this, these being, essentially, renewables, here, how much solar energy do we use to question transport, solar energy? As much as we use, you mentioned the railway, did you know, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, that after 100 years the night train Split-Zagreb was abolished, but if we talk about ecology. And that absolutely nothing was invested in this project, instead of using our potentials, solar energy here, we shut it down, here, colleague, president of the Transport Committee, let it say whether the Split-Zagreb line was abolished, that it would be lost on the figure and Dalmatian railway about 150 jobs, while 0 kuna, colleagues and colleagues from the 9th constituency were invested in this infrastructure. 0 Kuna and nothing is foreseen. And we're talking about investing in transport that's environmentally clean, which uses renewable sources. How many solar power plants we have, or where the vehicle will be filled, or where the project will be here, in Split was a project, given the bridge of independent newspapers Ante Cikotic project that on Karepovac at the dump, Karepovac, it will be this, sunny power plant that will be filled with buses. But you can't accept that, why? It's not accepted because it's much more important for our dicks to be transported by buses, our school-old kid, 40 years old, every, every, every, listen, every week one burns as old as they are, and they go on oil, they don't go on fossil fuels, they're not young, they're not that, and you've limited the cabs to get to Ubera, your government, to get to Uber for five years. And this is where buses can have, I don't know, 50 years. Old technology, diesels. It is acceptable to talk about greenhouse gases, reduction, fossil fuels, reduction, at the same time giving research fields and exploiting foreign investors, and to appeal to these regulations that you prescribe in essence, the deception of the people and the public who pay... Renewable sources like Krsh-Paden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38175	Now it's Mr. Pero Cosic's turn in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38176	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The issue of climate change is one of the major global problems in the 21st century. The EU therefore aims to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, i.e. to become a zero-net greenhouse gas emissions economy. This is the objective of the European Green Plan and is based on the Paris Agreement on global action in the area of climate. And to achieve climate neutrality, all economic sectors need to act. Only the transport sector in total energy consumption has a 30% share, and in EU greenhouse gas emissions about 25% of which 70% is generated from road transport. It is therefore clear to say the directions in which the conditions of the European Green Plan should be met. Croatian legislation has adopted a series of measures aimed at reducing polluters' emissions thus opening the need for new acceptable energy sources. Thus, the Transport Biofuels Act adopted in 2009 aimed at promoting the use of biofuels for transport. The fifth amendment to the law of 2018 prescribed the obligation to use renewable energy in all forms of transport and until 2020 was set to be 10%, with biofuels so-called biofuels. The first generations are oil biofuels, sugar culture, cereals should be at most 7% in order not to re-use the land needed to produce food. It is therefore potential to use and power in transport. There are increased factors that multiply electricity from renewable sources and spent road transport from 2.5 to 5 and rail transport from 1 to 2.5%. Accordingly, a public transport fuel obligation has been introduced, including the railway to use exclusively renewable electricity for transport purposes for which the guarantee of origin has been issued. The 10% target, unfortunately, has not been reached and the share of renewable energy on our market ranges between 5% and 6%. The secretary said the year ends at 7%, so it seems to be an effort. The achievement of the EU's green objectives and the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2018/2001, but we too need new amendments to the law. Each Member State's directive stipulates that the share of renewable energy in the final energy consumption in the transport sector should be at least 14% by 2030. This is in line with the European Parliament's goal that it adopted last year. It is about achieving climate neutrality by 2050 and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and compared to 1990 levels. As far as I am aware, only 5 EU Member States have legally defined the achievement of climate neutrality. Sweden, for example, wants to achieve a zero emission rate by 2045. In order for Croatia to have 14% of the share of renewable energy for transport by 2030, the proposal for this law sets out how to achieve that part, it sets out how to achieve that part by combining the obligations of the parties of the bonds to place renewables on the public transport and public sector fuel users' market, as well as the counties and cities through the promotion of energy efficiency in transport and the construction of alternative fuel infrastructure. Amendments and additions to the law also provide for the reporting obligation as well as the recording of biofuels and other renewable energies in accordance with sustainability requirements and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The provisions of that Directive relating to the quantities, quality and manner of placement of certain biofuels, advanced fuels and other renewable energy sources for transport shall also be aligned. It is important to note that the proposed law also prescribes sanctions for offenders. Penalties are prescribed for legal persons who are bonds to place biofuels on the market, which they do not. Moreover, sanctions for electricity users in public, road and rail transport are prescribed if they do not exclusively supply electricity for transport purposes produced on the existence of renewable sources. Transport is a prerequisite for the mobility of people and for the exchange of goods and must meet the needs of the population and the economy. It is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to enable further development of transport and, on the other hand, to reduce its negative impact on the environment and its dependence on oil imports. The transport sector should be moved from primary road to a larger share of rail, river and sea transport and the development and modernisation of railways, and by linking different modes of transport to multimodal transport across Europe, we will contribute to the objectives of the European Green Plan. The positive effects of biofuel use are economic and economic. In order to contribute to sustainable development, Croatia needs to increase the amount of biofuels both in the manufacturing sector and in the consumption sector. Biofuels, except by reducing dependence on fossil speech, also fosters Croatia's energy independence. We expect the economy to develop in this direction and we can increase economic growth with the benefit of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which is of paramount importance for our future. In order not to depend on imports, and we need to invest in innovation as well as in development, we need to move from the first generation of biofuel production to the second, but also to the third, and we will not spend the areas needed for agricultural production or food. He would point out that one major project planned to be built or to work in the Sisak refinery in order to start producing second generation biofuels, and the production of bioethanol would be from biomass where the basic raw material would be the plant Miskanthus, which is a plant growing in the areas of current Asia and Africa, so it is not a domestic plant. This could become an important factor for the development of biofuels in this part of Europe, and therefore this project could become a strategic, investment project for the Republic of Croatia, and it is indeed a major investment project of around EUR 250 million, some of which would be provided by the EU Innovation Fund. It would be good if this project came back to life as soon as possible. Private investment should be encouraged through existing instruments, funds and EU institutions as well as through new innovative solutions. Europe is currently focused on hydrogen, which is here for a reason called fuel for the future, because of its great potential in greenhouse gas emissions, so I have to say it is. The project is also in preparation in Slavonski Brod where the construction of a gas power plant that would cover only peak energy needs, both in the Republic of Croatia and the surrounding countries, and the excess energy that cannot sell by electrolysis of water, would produce hydrogen and that supplied CO2 means greenhouse gas used in heating on gas turbines, would be captured by a special device and special facilities, and would be compressed with a pipeline and would lead to an oil-gas field in the eastern Slavonia area and would be secretly stored there in geological structures, so that this thermopower plant, although it uses gas for propulsion, would be to say with one zero rate of greenhouse gas emissions. It is high time to drastically reduce dependence on fossil fuel markets and the development of biofuels for transport can stimulate employment in new green technologies, the production and use of biofuels and advanced fuels, or electricity and hydrogen produced from renewable energy in transport, the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy and will therefore support this proposal of the law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38177	You, too. Now, in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club, Mrs. President-in-Office will speak. Rose of the Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38178	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, more functional biofuel market has been established in 2018, and a model for the penalization of biofuels on the market has been introduced, which, apart from the charges for non-fuelling of biofuels on the market, is obliged to pay additional compensation if the greenhouse gas emissions have not been reduced. This measure resulted in an increase in the share of biofuels on the Croatian market and a 5.26% share in the total gasoline and gas oils placed on the market in 2019. Accordingly, other than distributors, petrol and diesel fuels, system bonds are public undertakings in transport, so railways, tram transport which are required to use exclusively renewable electricity and cities and units of regional self-government which are also responsible for increasing renewable energy in transport, including the development of alternative infrastructure. The Republic of Croatia sees the achievement of the 14% target precisely in the use of electricity in transport. Biofuels production from bio-waste has a double benefit of reducing waste and reducing CO2 emissions, but in the case of production of energy biofuels, more detailed calculations in the amount of CO2 emissions should certainly be taken into account in that case. Prior to the end of her term, she handed over a special report to the Croatian Parliament entitled "Right to Healthy Life and Climate Change in the Republic of Croatia from 2013 to 2020". It shows the link between human rights and environmental protection and gives an assessment of respect for the right to a healthy life guaranteed by the Constitution. It analyzes problems related to air, water and soil protection, light and noise pollution, non-ionizing radiation, etc. Base stations, sustainable waste management and climate change. This topic is particularly important because of insufficiently developed environmental awareness of institutions as well as the general public on the importance of environmental protection, nature, climate and human health, leading to an insufficient level of achievement of the right to a healthy life. It is also important in the context of climate change whose consequences Croatia has already experienced during the Eastern Croatian floods in 2014 and the 2017 fire season. Is the pandemic COVID-19 unexpected or is it a logical sequence of events that unfortunately we can expect more and more? Over the past years, the UN has indicated an increased risk of developing diseases that are believed to be directly linked to the destruction of habitats of many species and the violation of biodiversity. The pandemic, the UN said, is the best indicator of the interrelationship between environmental and human health concerns, as well as other fundamental rights and freedoms. In addition, the European Environment Agency points to the possibility of linking air and poverty pollution to higher mortality rates than COVID 19. This report, which we received in the Assembly, was based on complaints from citizens and associations on their own initiative by the Ombudsman's Office, then on data from competent authorities, field work and participation in legislative activities. The implementation of its recommendations would make sure that the rights to a healthy life and thus human rights are protected in general through the promotion of environmentally-aware policy-making and work of institutions, which would be in line with the European Green Plan for the recovery of the EU from the pandemic. Right to a healthy life from Art. 70 The constitution or the right to a healthy environment is not yet adequately recognised and particularly not in international contracts, but efforts by the UN and the EU have been intensified in recent years. The role of human rights defenders dealing with environmental protection has been increasingly recognised and the first charges for climate change in the European Court of Human Rights and complaints to UN contracting authorities have been initiated, so the UN Human Rights Committee has also made its first decision on climate refugees. Sustainable development and environmental and nature protection represent a comprehensive and extremely complex inter-sectoral area, including industry, energy, agriculture, transport of other sectors requiring systematic and coordinated cooperation between all competent authorities and at all levels, it is a subject which has extremely important implications for the achievement of human rights in the Republic of Croatia and, in that report, primarily considers those areas where citizens have addressed complaints and which have the greatest impact on their everyday life. Unfortunately, there is still insufficiently developed environmental awareness of the importance of environmental protection, nature, climate and human health leading to a low level of achievement of the right to a healthy life. Here I will highlight an example of air pollution in Slavonski Brod where the struggle for the right to clean air lasts for more than 12 years. Let's ask the brave members of the Ship Moms' Association what they think, do they make proper enough for their children to breathe clean air and drink clean water? Do they have constitutional rights too, or are they reserved for someone else? Then they can highlight delays by adopting key documents on environmental protection and sustainable development. Our rules are intrinsically uncoordinated. The precautionary principle is not sufficiently applied and projects are planned and implemented which are not environmentally acceptable because they are targeted at fossil fuels, are built and waste management centres are being opened from which the sulfur and floating particles are being released and citizens complain that they have health problems. HS was first informed of some of these problems under the separate chapter in the regular annual report by the Ombudsman for 2013, since then, in seven annual reports, the competent authorities have given a total of 72 recommendations for improving the environmental protection and human rights system of 28 of which have been repeated for several years. According to the assessment, only six were completed completely, and only eight in part. But back to biofuels and traffic. In history, engines with internal combustion of biofuels were the main plant in transport, but today traffic depends mainly on liquid fossil fuels, a reduction in fossil fuel reserves and major global changes are the reason for the relaunching of biofuels. Subject analyses made on this issue generally give an assessment of the impact of meteorological parameters such as temperature and precipitation on the production of biofuels raw materials, models are made based on FAOSAT, DATEBASE and Climate Research Unit data from the results of these analyses can be seen to have an important impact on the production of biofuel raw materials, especially a major impact having a precisely high temperature. The results also show that the increase in temperature reduces the production of most raw materials. Only in the case of soy model production shows a positive impact of more temperature on production. Different analyses show that in the future the air temperature will increase on average by approximately 1.1 to 1.6 degrees, if we look at average temperatures in the 1980-1999 period, the rainfall projections show an interesting scenario so that in some areas rainfall by around 20%, but in other areas it will reduce again to 20%. The analysis results show that by 2100. global biofuel production due to global change also decrease by 40%. We have also checked environmental impact and results show that the production of liquid biofuels of the first generation has a much greater impact on the environment than the production of fossil fuels or the production of electricity from different sources. The results of several scientific studies show that first-generation biofuels are not a solution for a long time because we cannot provide enough quantities, but also because of the environmental impacts they have. We hope that the ruling take into account these circumstances that show scientific studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38179	The SDP representative club will be represented by Mr Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38180	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is another proposal for a law on amendments to the law this time of the Law on the use of biofuels in transport. Unfortunately, the Law on the Use of Biofuels in Transport is another one in a series of laws we had in Croatia, but we did not fully adhere to it as many. He now has an obligation to comply with EU legislation or with the European Parliament and Council directives of 11 December 2018. promoting the use of renewable energy. I must point out that this law was passed in 2009. and that we have then transposed the provisions of the 2009 Directive, that the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending the 2009 Directive is a new Directive. adopted in 2015, but we implemented it into our laws or transposed it into our laws only 2018 and 2018. a new directive has already been adopted, which will be transposed today, or these days, into our law again with a backlog of three years and 2021 respectively. With the apparent delay of reading the amendment and the addition of the law, I failed to understand why in the article. 3. century 3. the text only complements the following: ‘The use of biofuels and advanced biofuels or electricity and hydrogen produced from renewable energy in transport brings together the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy established by the documents of energy and climate policy of the Republic of Croatia, the laws and other regulations governing the implementation of energy activities, in particular in terms of the achievement of the national target of at least 10% of renewable energy in direct transport consumption by 2020’. 2020 has passed "from at least 14% to 2030. in the Republic of Croatia." I don't understand why it is left in 2020. and the goal that we have not achieved anyway means 2019. We've reached about 5.26% by 2020, and we should have achieved 10% of what the results for 2010, we don't know yet, but I believe we'll get that data soon. In the meantime, we had a higher deviation in the use and prescribed quantities of biofuels in transport, so that the prescribed percentage of 10% of biofuels that were to be used in transport by 2020 we only managed to get to the 5.26% I mentioned in 2019, and what is the situation in 2020 we will probably get in a few months. This modest result has also been achieved thanks to the introduction of a bond’s penalisation model by placing biofuels on the market, which, apart from the cost of non-biofuels on the market, are obliged to pay an additional fee if greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced. So even after this new model of penalization, we managed to reach just over 50% of the plans that we drew for 2020 in 2018, we transposed the provisions regarding the use of land and biofuels that included a 7% limit on the use of conventional biofuels, i.e. biofuels, etc. First generation. Since first-generation biofuels are derived from olives, sugar crops, cereals and other starch-rich cultures and are grown on areas that could be used for the purposes of the food or feed market, it has become concerned that an indirect change in the purpose of the land used for the production of food has occurred. However, we all have to ask ourselves why a change in the purpose of the land used to produce food, when we know that we currently have over 400 thousand hectares of unused agricultural land in Croatia. When we put this information in context of the estimate that per capita's head needs one square metre of oranium per day, or that one hectare can feed 27 people throughout the year, we realize that according to this preliminary calculation, we can potentially feed almost 11 million people a year with this area of over 400 thousand hectares. In order to be more accurate in the estimates, I must point out that this figure is slightly smaller because we need to consider that part of that land without investment is not suitable for conventional intensive agricultural production. However, these data are a very good indication that Croatia has the potential and potential to feed, not just its citizens, but to produce food and raw materials for export and in no way is there any need to re-use or, or to change the purpose of land that is already being processed and used for food production, but that we should finally start using the natural resources we have. We should use the potential for agricultural production and finally revive the Croatian village. Instead, in Croatia, the import of the necessary food products is more than 50% and for some unknown reasons we are trying to ensure that no crops that are suitable for biofuel production on agricultural surfaces are grown. In addition to the failures we had with the achievement of the assigned quantities of biofuels for transport and from the 10% given, we managed to reach 5.26%, except for the failure of the energy efficiency story, because by 2020 we had to achieve 30% of energy savings in transport, except failures by putting agricultural surfaces into use, unfortunately, we witnessed that some distributors had for years ignored the obligation to use green fuels, and the users who were supposed to have not bought biodiesel, and yet, unfortunately, that, unfortunately, passed without sanctions and control. Since there was a national plan, there was a law, but there were no criminal provisions, there were no sanctions for fuel distributors, unless they were using biofuels, so the distributors didn't, so the distributors didn't even use it, and it's clear to you all that it wouldn't change on a voluntary basis. It is therefore logical to introduce criminal provisions and introduce stricter control of distributors in the part of the use of biofuels. However, we need to see how the application of this law reflects our Croatian economy, which is what the law brings us in terms of progress, GDP growth, the growth of the number of employees. The question arises as to what the application of this law brings us in the area of production, putting new hectares of agricultural areas into operation and we can conclude, unfortunately, nothing. Unfortunately, I have to realize that in that part, this law, at least for now, doesn't bring us anything at all. Why? Because we have to turn to imports this time, because in the meantime we managed to shut down all four biofuel factories, although I must stress that one of these factories did not actually start working because owners realized what conditions await them in the Croatian market. The factories are closed, workers are on the labour market, agricultural areas are unused, and we will either import or pay the foam again because of the miserable results we achieve in the area of use of alternative fuels in transport. We all know that we all know that we have very many raw agricultural areas, we all like to talk about the development of agriculture, we like to talk about the development of Croatian villages, we are very eager when we talk about the circular economy, but we need to realise that in practice this is not working and that the circular economy is not being applied and that this approach is convincingly pushing us to the beginnings of the EU and in the sector of agriculture and in the part of the use of green energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38181	We're moving on to individual debates. There's a Mrs. Weiner's first argument. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38182	... Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with his associates. [[Specially enabled.]] So there's a law before us that, when we formally look at it in terms of compliance with the directives, it harmonizes with the directive, equally, there are some amendments and they are up-to-date and some things that have been a problem are activated, all right. But let's get to the real situation we have. We have a series of laws, and it's already been recently and last week, and last week, we're aligning ourselves with the directives, we're going to pass the law, and then in real life, we see that something is completely different. Croatia needs to be defined what kind of country it wants to be. I'm in my working century, first it was the term "environmental protection", then it was the term "sustainable development", now we have the term "fight against climate change - the Green Plan", we're all, we're full of mouths of it, but we really need to define what we want to be and how we want to be. What we're going to invest in, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to produce, what we're going to do, what we're going to do, what we're going to encourage production, and maybe there's some things that we're going to read about this law. Just to answer the question of what, what in the future we want to be. So, let's say Art. 4th and now in 2nd, they say, raw materials for the production of biogas, for transport and advanced biofuels and writes under one algae. Fein! Great! As far as we have algae, what do we do with algae so far, what do we do with algae in the future? I'm ten years ago. I had one lecture in terms of energy efficiency in construction and I showed the building where the algae were on the facade and no one believed that this building in reality existed because it looked pretty good and it looked like I was photoshopping, in reality it existed. So, in reality there really is biofuel production, several stages of these biofuels have passed. It was clear exactly what problem was in the ship's, so where they were, where with those big biofuel tankers, they were further developing algae, so they had to throw that fuel away, so it all went down. There goes the second stage of the industry where it's with electric cars. We don't make electric cars, but if we decide to show and we want our citizens to be friends, we'll co-finance them buying electric cars, so we're okay with those electric cars. Then we, we must prepare for it. For this we need to prepare the infrastructure so that this one, on the way to or in the city, can fill his car somewhere. One of the conditions would be that in the construction of multi-state buildings like I said in public or in some shopping malls or on, no one can build a public parking lot anymore, without having a number of places to charge electric cars and a special place where they will be filled. So these are the conditions we have to be, but it's not filling up out of the air, so there's no perpetum cell from nothing, it's always something in something. Therefore, this will result in the need to keep an eye on where our electricity comes from. But what we should base our attention on is the problem of air pollution. Since climate change, therefore, and from air pollution before this unfortunate crown and covid was one of the great ones, I won't say the most is whether it would be really unserious, an awful large number of people dying as a result of climate change or air pollution, which is seen in one time. You remember and I can remind you of pictures of Beijing or whatever he calls it, where they're a huge amount of pollution. Zagreb was recently the second city in the world on the topic of "air pollution". One reason air pollution is, of course, means of transport. One reason air pollution is public transport. Now we go to local elections, we already see all the headlines where the candidates promise hills and valleys, really hills and valleys because everyone has a magic wand and a bag of money that the press and the second day all that they've done before is worth nothing, these will do something perfectly ideal and best possible. I didn't see any, no election program in which election program was all public transport. In the area of my county or in my city, it will be environmentally acceptable I wish I'd seen that. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38183	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38184	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38185	You have replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38186	Then I'll say everything I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38187	Mr. Stromar's first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38188	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the production of algae on the front of multi-state buildings. I think that this law should also be passed and that it is good quality and that it will make sure to reduce greenhouse gases, but I expect the Energy Efficiency, Change and Supplement Act very quickly so that we can move again and use Croatian materials as soon as possible and make sure that the front end and reduce energy consumption because we see that buildings are far the highest energy consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38189	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38190	Dear colleague Stromar, thank you very much for asking if it will enable me to answer. So the construction material industry is one of the industries on which Croatia can really base its development in the coming period. At one point when the energy efficiency of construction started we didn't have a Styrofoam, you couldn't buy on the market a Styrofoam if it just wasn't there. When we talk about the Banovina area or the Banovina area, and I will repeat it again, there is a project in the EU called "New Bauhaus", so "Bauhaus" was a movement that at one time took a major step in Germany. Why don't we recognize that it's an area where we can make one building material factory out of everything that's going to collapse, recycle and make a new value and build on it. There's no greener than that, there's no more developed than that, but if you get a chance to miss who train went and then you have to wait next. I'm afraid we're always waiting for a new train.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38191	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, should the government, in fact, as a proposing, make a deep assessment of this important regulation although the rules which, therefore directly apply from the EU, are exempt from the Law on the impact of the rules, if they knew the effect of this regulation, might be much easier for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38193	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38194	Thank you very much. I have, by the way, pointed out technical lessons several times and I think unlike lawyers, economists or others, I think in pictures and think in some graphs. And I always think when you decide to go do some kind of regulation, whether it's just compliance with EU directives or not, you have to do an analysis of the existing situation. So I've been doing more or less spatial planning my whole life. How does it start? Do an analysis of the existing state, you have some needs and assessments and you see how the fastest and easiest way to get to it. Equally such a special topic in this law is compensation, special environmental fees. Let's see how many of them we have, how realistic it is that we have, those who so far are not their own, supplied their gas stations in a certain way or they're not going to pay for it, and what we can do to make that added value. I'm sure it's in public transport that's in county and city control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38195	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38196	Dear MPs, you mentioned the quality of the air. I don't know if you're aware that a few days ago in Zagreb in some neighborhoods was the worst air quality in the region. Even Sarajevo and Podgorica, which otherwise have an ever worse air quality than Zagreb, had a better air quality. And you said yourself we're actually doing or nothing or almost nothing to change the consumption of fossil fuels, to start using green energy, to start using renewable energy sources. That's the problem. And if Zagreb as the largest and capital in the Republic of Croatia will not take the first steps, I'm afraid no one else in Croatia will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38197	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38198	Thank you very much for asking, my colleague Pavić, therefore I am very curious to you by nature and I am very much reading and trying to inform myself about a number of things. When this unfortunate Coronation or Covid-19 began, I read little literature and learned that according to some indicators, the largest number of deaths in the last five years had been on the subject of bad air. So, darkness polluting city spaces with bad air. And we always have these pictures, I like those pictures of Beijing or those pictures of Sarajevo that have it because of a number of things. Sarajevo has, among other things, its position. But already on several occasions the City of Zagreb was really in a few days, and especially at this time of the transition from winter to spring it had an extremely bad, so we have measured air cells, bad air. The other day there was another in the world, so there was only one city that was worse than them. You have to wonder why and solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38199	Thank you. I'm sorry, but Mrs. Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38200	My colleague Mrak Taritash, director of Vitrexa, one of our three biofuel companies at the same time, said he had failed. When it comes to Europe and protecting the environment, there's a story about it, and when you get into it, it's all completely different. The car industry wants to produce cars that go for biodiesel because it's not in her best interest. So, is this a question and a principle issue at all and working on directives, implementing them into Croatian legislation, is it all in some way unnecessary or mass play if we can't get to what should be our ultimate goal, which is to convince the market that it produces something that will be environmentally acceptable because here are the producers themselves saying it won't happen because it's not in their interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38201	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38202	Thank you very much. So when I spoke on behalf of the club, then I really referred to my son's doctorate because I know from time to time how he lasted and what he was dealing with, it was absolutely irrelevant but he was working part of America, and part of it worked in Munich and he was tied to the car industry. Where the doctorate was on the subject of making engines, parts that could go both on fossil fuel and on biofuels and what that means. So the industry will adapt, the industry is interested in producing new, to produce different products, so we've come to electric vehicles, and we've come to vehicles on different other drives. So the industry is going to do it. We don't have an auto-industry like a country. So what we need to recognize is what our interest is, and we didn't recognize it and we won't recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38203	Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38204	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you mentioned algae, so third-generation biofuels. The fact is that algae have the ability of far greater yields with lower inputs. So they can produce energy by a hectare of 50 to 100 times more than the classic raw materials of the soybean type. I came across data, however, from 2018 that only 6 EU members have biorefineries that use second and third-generation biofuels. So if that's really so good, and obviously as far as algae are concerned, what do you think the problem is why is there no greater momentum in the use of algae to produce biofuels?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38205	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38206	Thank you very much. So I'm here on several occasions mentioning the following. What's the role of the state? The role of the state is to create conditions in which someone will recognize their moment. At the moment someone recognizes, they recognize that they can also build a biofuels plant from algae in the region of the Republic of Croatia and that they have that interest he will do so. If he has no interest, he won't. And that's actually the key question. And we send the wrong messages, we wander. So, after we've really done that much, I'd say recklessly, so no matter what we're going to subsidize the production of biofuels, because we had to subsidize the production of biofuels, after the factories said so, okay, the finished story, every next one will say that's the state that's going to change its mind. This country will move forward when nobody sees whose government was left, center or right when the government continues where the previous one left off. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38207	Thank you very much, thank you very much, no more replicas. Next debate, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38208	Thank you very much. When we talk about biofuels, then we really ask ourselves otherwise citizens, here and our people expect us to give solutions, not just copying regulations. Biofuels are biomass. Forests, algae, bio-waste, anything that can get fuel, oil. But in us here, when we talk about it, here I was just going to mention, when oil prices are rising, it's been terrible, here today since last January, so from last year, so a year and two months ago, today is the biggest price in that period. And, of course, that our potentials, here I look at our potentials, our forest, our branches, my leaves, I look at all these potentials, which is why we don't use it, and so all the time I'm asking, by this forest, by our agricultural land, by our agricultural land, with our waste separation, how many areas in the Republic are used to produce biofuels? I can't get that answer yet, it was settled by law last year, you said when it was solved, that we were using all the potential and whether renewable energy sources, mainly subsidies were that system of green economy i.e. green policies, like Krsh Fallen. What subsidies, what rules are these? How is that going to work? That's what you decide. And we here in the Parliament, like we're at the university department, and now we have to talk about what's biofuel. If the European policies that I say again are called on by the Prime Minister, by the European Commission, by the European Council, by the Council of Europe, to move towards green policies, what effect does Croatia have? What are those plans? What does that mean for a farmer, what does that mean for a farmer? What does that even mean? And what are your plans besides this,... 14%? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, that's how you talked about wind, wind power plants, so we have a problem with our citizens paying for it, just wind power plants, renewables, 2 billion kunas from their pockets. What will the subsidies be, I'm curious? Do we, in government, at the Ministry, really threaten the environment led by Coric, do you really do this on the ground, do you plan? Are you going out with those suggestions? So I know here, I will repeat, in Split Ante Cikotic, the town councilman suggested that we have at the dump site of Split, a solar bus charger of the city. Does Croatia use these funds from EU funds? Do we have any national plan or are we going to implement from the Minister of Environmental Threat and the destruction of Mr. Coric's economy, the policy of transporting garbage from Vrgorec from the same sanitary conditions 120 km to Sinj? That's what I'm gonna say again. Well, it occurred to a man that he wouldn't pay a penny if nothing had happened to the CGO, that harmful, lečevica that was promoted by A. Sanader, 30 million kn in 10 years you spent and the waste was biofuel because part of it was waste. Biowaste we have which can also be biofuel, could be compost. Help our farmers. Actually, what are we doing here? We are doing a system of subsidies such as Krš Padedene, and I am therefore interested in always silence because of such renewable sources, green policies, of which of our advantages do we do damage to our citizens, mostly repeat, where you are now a colleague of Boric, a coalition partner of M. Pupovac, where people live in Krš Padjene, mostly Serbian national minorities who are left behind, threatened and environmentally and economically? Speaking of people of Serbian nationality, then I'm talking about people of political Croats who allegedly choose him here to run the Croatian state, where are these people? 2 billion kunas we must pay this harmful project out of our pocket for the subsidies it has brought, so that you don't get angry, your coalition partner, the HNS in the Government of Z. Milanović,... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38209	- Mrs. Crescent. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38210	Comrade Bull, I'm going to ask you something you looked back on in your replica. I wonder how realistic do you think it is that we are introducing such progressive green policies into our public transport when we have not done something that should be preceded and that has at all ensured the functioning of this public transport for all our citizens and especially for those who need it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38211	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38212	I thank you for this question. And I'll thank you for being able to do it again and I'd like to thank you now and for the citizens of my county, mostly the Cetina region, where the traffic of Makarska, the traffic of Sinj, is transporting students on buses over 40 years of age to diesel that burns one or two weeks or a month, and they're lucky to stay alive. You know how she smokes out of them? Whoever he is, I don't know, I can't get enough of what that movie was, smokes out of them like it's an old blue rara. So we haven't prepared the conditions, the infrastructure, and we have the potential for renewables, for reducing fossil fuels, and not just that, instead of preparing that infrastructure, we give to foreigners, that's the next law, to explore our Dinarids. To drill, dig, exploit. And we call here on green policies while we favor foreigners to use our natural resources exclusively for their benefit, whether it's MOL or someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38213	Time. Mr. Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you do not touch this situation at all in your debate, which is that the entire planet Earth is in danger, and new alternative energies are more expensive than conventional and without subsidies we certainly cannot reduce greenhouse gases. We need to think about it, we need to think about not only us here today, but our children, who are going to live on this Earth, and we all have to work together and really reduce greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38215	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38216	Well, yes, the objective of this directive, which is prescribed neatly, is essentially to reduce greenhouse gases and use fossil fuels, to reduce greenhouse gases, it's the goal, so that's what we're talking about at the club, on behalf of the club, that's the goal. But what's in reality? What's in reality? We, Croatia, have plenty of sun, we are sunny, we are Mediterranean, we are numerous, we have many days of sun. So more Finland uses solar energy on solar plants, photovoltaic cells than Croatia. 0.5% we use. The EU 5%, Mediterranean countries and up to 20%. We use 0.5% of the sun. Well, that's the problem that we're just copying directives and regulations, and nothing is done. Neither the waste management nor the use of biomaterials that can be produced, and subsidies are particularly the issue, and this was particularly well arranged by Minister Coric on the matter of Krs-Padjene which is the robbery of the centuries as far as the Croatian people are concerned. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38217	- Next debate, Mrs. President. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of HS, State Secretary with co-workers, MPs and MPs. Amendments to the Law on Biofuels for Transport are proposed in order to bring the Republic of Croatia's legislative framework in line with the amendments to the EU legislative framework created by the adoption of the Directive on the use of renewable energy sources. This Directive establishes a common legal framework to promote the use of renewable energy in transport in such a way as to prescribe each Member State that the minimum share of renewable energy in the final energy consumption in the transport sector is 14% by 2030, which we must recognise is quite an ambitious objective. It is therefore necessary for Member States to provide an indicative route for increasing the renewable transport elections by 2030 and to set the obligation for distributors, petrol and diesel fuel suppliers in line with this indicative route and to monitor the achievement of the objectives. Maybe if we had these obligations earlier, it wouldn't have happened if the biofuel production plants in Croatia were shut down. The main problem is that there were no penalties for non-mixing biofuels. In 2019, a total of 5.28% of biofuels were placed on the market, of which 7.85% were required according to what we have established in the National renewable energy Action Plan by 2020. Given that we do not produce biofuels, this means that we import them, and it seems to me that a better solution would be to place unprocessed and processed agricultural areas in the function of producing raw materials for the production of biomass energy in order to achieve national and European targets in the use of renewable energy sources. In Croatia, we have 39 biomass power plants, a total of 86 169 kilowatts and 41 biogas plants, a total installed power of 45 922 kilowatts. It is important from this point of view what needs to be done in order to use the resources we have available in a smart way, and I would suggest, above all, making a map of renewable energy sources because it is a prerequisite for us to achieve ambitious targets in the use of renewable energy sources. Of course I think the future is in electricity. However, this transition cannot happen overnight, especially because electricity storage technology is not yet sufficiently available in either Croatia or other Member States of Eastern Europe. Every liquid fuel car produced today in Europe will be driven for at least 6 years in the Western Member States and then another 10 years in the Eastern Member States. Those vehicles will use oil derivatives. Some Member States are considering banning internal combustion engines in 2040, which means that fossil fuels will take at least 40 more years. It is therefore important to give the opportunity to all types of renewable energy sources, not just to some. I consider it important to place a particular emphasis on renewable energy sources created in agriculture and forestry and which are an important contribution to European and climate policy. At the time of the agricultural crisis, the synergies of these two policies, ensure appropriate product objectives and reserve a sufficient amount of food in the event of increasingly frequent natural disasters and significant summer losses. We should aim to achieve self-sufficiency in the production of protein for animal food and to reduce imports of soybean and to preserve existing jobs and create new jobs, especially in rural areas. But Europe is still deficited in the production of protein for animal food. Today we depend on imports, we do not have a clear strategy unlike, for example, China which has become the world's largest importer of soybean, developed a security strategy and can seriously endanger European protein supply. The question arises as to why Europe is the world's first wheat exporter, while the second is the soybean importer. Are the crops of pods a kind of orphan among crops in the EU? The production of protein plants used to be large, has now fallen into the EU because it is not attractive enough. The European support for soybeans was abolished in 1992, and an even bigger problem is that soybeans from imports have duty-free treatment and I believe that this should be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38219	Stay, you've got a line of replicas. Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38220	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. Sustainable development and environmental protection are, in fact, the basis of the survival of civilization, but we live in a global world where there is neither God nor man, and in these conditions everything that is done is done on a profit basis. So my question to you, do you think that these natural disasters that are present in the world are just a reflection of the uncontrolled cutting of the forest or the consumption of fossil fuels? And by analogy, are we Croats importing unhealthy food, and we have here a god-given country area where we can produce food and to what extent affects the health of people in Croatia? By eating unhealthy food, we are actually becoming a sick nation, so everything is based on profit, which is by no means a good way to preserve civilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38221	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38222	Thank you very much. My colleague Simičević, you are right, unfortunately, all are facing more or less profit and this is reflected in the phenomena in nature that is significantly changing, are increasingly an elemental accident and, in fact, by destroying nature, man is questioning the sustainability of the entire food chain and its own survival. You are right when you draw attention that it is very important to achieve self-sufficiency in food production and control what we produce and what we eat. The National Strategy for Combating Cancer recently adopted in HS, which has just brought about the issue and importance of a healthy diet when it comes to preventing cancer from getting better, should also be one signal for a new direction in which we should go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38223	Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38224	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said yourself that the future is safe in electric vehicles. Do you think it would be a good idea to make solar chargers in Croatia, make a network of solar chargers because as we see now, we actually have cases where these classic chargers are on electrical energy, and I think this would be a much better solution to make sure that some parts of the Republic of Croatia have just such, that they are supplied with such chargers, that we have such a network. On the other hand, since we have large areas of untapped agricultural land, do you think it would be justified to co-finance in a way grown tails and thus be used for biofuels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38225	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38226	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. We certainly need sufficient infrastructure throughout Croatia if we want to increase the use of renewable energy sources in this sense and in transport, so certainly this idea that you are presenting about charging stations that would be on solar power is something that is necessary and welcome. When I said it was about ambitious objectives set by the directive, and the negotiations were long and difficult, I mean, not only in Croatia today, but in Europe only 5.7% of renewable energy sources are used in transport, we have to achieve 14%. So that's why I advocate the adoption of a map of renewable energy sources because then we would know it's the most profitable sun, where the most profitable wind is, where it's the most profitable water, and where we need to put these unprocessed surfaces into operation because I think it's better to grow on them those agricultural products that can be used in biofuel production than that these agricultural areas are empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38227	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38228	Thank you very much. Comrade Petir, today we hear from our colleagues that we about renewable energy sources are bad, disaster, etc., especially one colleague who constantly advocates renewable energy sources, and is constantly talking against one such project that we should say, which is built and which contributes. Today we're talking about biofuels, and we have the fact that we're on our way, and unfortunately we've closed down certain plants because there's obviously been some disturbances on the market, but the state obviously hasn't done something right. Is there any reason to eliminate the incentives we've had, that the reason is something else? The question is, how do we get those plants back and how do we increase your biofuel production in our country so we don't have to depend on biofuels being imported to make up for these kind of obligations that we have to have? What should the state do for me or for you to somehow come back again, since we know that at least in the biowaste part we have thousands and hundreds of thousands of tons that we don't know how to take care of?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38229	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38230	Thank you very much, fellow Boric. So I think it is very important that, with the adoption of this directive, it also creates this clear obligation for suppliers and distributors that did not exist and that, in any case, it certainly contributed to the withdrawal of some producers from that production, because unfortunately, some were more profitable or we could say more easily, and there were no sanctions to import biofuels than to buy on the domestic market. Since we have obligations to meet, I certainly find it extremely important to consider what capacities we have within our own state so that we can produce as much as possible. In this sense, I really advocate the fact that we try to put the working, raw agricultural surfaces into operation and that these companies that have announced the production of second generation biofuels, which is also the company in Vukovar and INA in Sisak, are also one promoter of renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38231	Thank you. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38232	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Petir, you have long been a member of the European Parliament itself, these topics are familiar to you and you have worked on them and you have imposed here and in the Croatian public quite a bit on these topics, the opposition looks like, this looks like an individual law, we have to look a little wider, this is still part of the European Green Plan and the National Development Strategy that we recently adopted in HS and this is something we have committed ourselves to. The EU, as you know, but you acted here firsthand, wants to take over the primate of this topic, wants to take over the primate of reductions and greenhouse gases, which is why this ambitious plan, which the European Commission has presented, is that we will be back to, to over 40% of the 1990s level, and I think that, as a country deprived of heavy industries, we can do very quickly some steps, especially regarding what you mentioned for electric vehicles and the reduction of the bar in that public transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38233	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38234	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, it is true that this directive is part of a complex legislation, an energy climate package long under discussion and even longer negotiations. I was the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament on the Directive on renewable energy sources and rapporteurs in the shadow of the Committee on the Environment and can only confirm that the negotiations were extremely difficult, that there were huge differences in positions between the European Parliament, between the Commission, between the councils and that what we have today is a compromise. A compromise that will make the new Member States and Member States in Eastern Europe far more difficult to achieve than some other Member States. That's why I stress what our advantages are and we should make better use of these advantages when it comes to renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38235	And the last replica, Mr. Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38236	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, there is a good situation in your debate, not as imposing that we must do something but that there is potential, and that is the potential for the development of an abandoned rural space. You have made a very good point and I think that, after the adoption of this law, the Ministry of Economy and Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Agriculture should work on that and create conditions for us to actually have 14% of biofuels in fuel in 2030.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38237	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38238	Thank you very much. Comrade Stromar, of course, all of these goals are positive because they actually want to contribute to a better situation, especially in transport in a sector that is so demanding when it comes to the impact on climate change and when it comes to environmental protection where obviously the shifts have been the slowest so far. That's why we need to challenge all the forces to, to get to these shifts, and that's one rational and clever use of those resources that we have at our disposal. What I have as information, early 2001. The EU has increased the production of protein for animal food in combination with biofuel production and thus reduced the import of food required for animals and achieved some 35 to 40% self-sufficiency in 2015. For biofuel production across the EU, 3% to 4% are used agricultural land and decreased imports of protein by 10%. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] So we have to look conceptually at it, not just as one area but as a connection. and give one added value. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38239	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38240	Fellow Members and fellow parliamentary representatives, of course, there is no principle of dispute with the introduction of this directive into Croatian legislation. But what concerns us all and what is here is whether the introduction of this directive will really contribute to a change in practice. Are we really going to bear witness to a circular economy, such a popular term that we often boast about when we need to talk about both our green policies and our green policies within the EU. How can we in any way encourage such a circular economy to which this directive aims? If we introduce and punish distributors who do not mix biofuels with fossil fuel unequivocally and if we punish them for failing to achieve the energy savings required, then there is a strong possibility that the consequences of such practice will be felt by consumers precisely because as long as we do not have a prerequisite on this market that all these distributors can actually use biofuel or mix it with fossil fuel, then in practice we will have a situation for them if they implement such directives in the act of rising prices, and ultimately that price finally makes consumers feel. Let's remember what the situation looked like once. At least once in this biofuels area, our future was light. 2005 We had the idea that we would be one of the leaders in biofuel production, we had three companies Modibit, Biodizel Vukovar and Vitrex, which dealt with the mentioned production, but all three failed. Why did they fail? They failed because of the debts they generated, because they were not competitive and because of incentives they did not receive or were not paid in time. I will also remind you that during the time of Minister Vrdoljak the incentives stopped arriving and that they were forced to sell below the production price. In the end, a story that began optimisticly back in 2005. It ended in such a way that today and 2020, respectively. which is our last reference point and in this description of the law, we were unable to achieve the objectives set. We are unable to achieve these objectives at both biofuel levels, gas levels, electricity levels, all renewable sources that should be crucial in what we like to call a green future. We are also sentenced to imports of biofuels, and we are also sentenced to imports of reprocessing because we do not have our own market that can meet the needs of biofuels in Croatia. How do you solve this problem? In particular, the fact that the introduction of INA into the market or Biorefineria in Sisak will solve something in so many problems is a solution. I would remind you that there are plans in the Biorefinery in Sisak to apply to the EU Investment Fund, which should create 120 jobs as well as about a thousand indirect jobs. Given this coronary crisis, given what happened with the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County there should be our focus and there should be all our political focus. We know how many problems Rafineria is in Sisak, we know that it has been a year before the shut-off and that there have now been 300 people before the cancellation, if we are really going to work here in the Assembly to introduce directives that will go towards biofuels, then let's try to use our political energy to focus on the Refinery in Sisak so that it can manage this transit to solar power plants, but also to biofuels, according to biorefiniery, to find new jobs to not close down, not to fail the City of Sisak, but also to the entire Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38241	Mr. Bull's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38242	Thank you very much. In your debate, you mentioned circular management, sustainable development in essence everything we prescribe from the EU in Croatia is done the opposite, and we are all in favour of reducing greenhouse gases, we are all for sustainable management. However, what to say when the rules of the ministers at the last cabinets or Minister Coric example Krš-Pađena are also a renewable source of energy such as biofuels are all essentially one weighting, one setting and one crime. If the circular management of Krš-Paden 2 billion kunas are these vermins from this ministry the secretary of state is behind you, they made the Croatian people on Krš-Paden, do not wave at the head of your colleagues from HDZ, these pests can make the Croatian people what was done on Krš-Paden... and those people who live here, as well as Croatian energy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38243	Mr. Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38244	Comrade Bulj, here we have allowed Sisak to fail, and we are talking about Biorefinery in Sisak to save both jobs and refinery. I would like to remind you that if we have the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection at all these two are often incompatible and contrary to each other before something that is complementary, perhaps even if we really had renewable energy sources, but in practice this is not the case. This is not only problematic at the level of Croatia, it is also problematic at EU level because I will remind you that carbon... in the production of biofuels was problematic because in the environment it eventually took place in the production of more damage, more pollution than it benefited from biofuels. It's a key environmental problem that's less talked about, so we move on to the third generation, etc., but the question is what we're going to eventually discover about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38245	Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38246	Thank you. Dear colleague Selak Raspoudic, this story of the Sisak bio plants, it's actually an alibi story to cloud reality. The fact that HDZ just shut down and allowed the Sisak refinery to be shut down and then now to send the story that some kind of transformation would happen, that jobs would be preserved. The picture is actually different, the picture is so that it moves out of Banovina, that a lot of kids checked out, for example. in Petrinja from school and that actually there is no perspective. What is only safe and will double is the number of HDZ candidates in the upcoming election for the county because there will be not one but two, Žinic as an independent and Celjak as an official HDZ candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38247	Mrs. Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38248	A colleague of Grmoi, it seems that the consequences of their poor political action in Sisak-Moslavina County have finally been bitten by the HDZ ranks themselves, so they are no longer felt exclusively by citizens, but also by their ranks. That may well say how well they cope with the current crisis in Sisak-Moslavina County. And as for the refinery in Sisak, it needs to be a lot of our political appeal and political goal, and we have to stand up for it at least once again in the EU investment funds when we don't have any solutions or adjustment of the market to come to some jobs. If it's 120 now, and 300 people are questionable it's not even half, but a thousand places indirectly if it could be a big gain for that end. No matter what I say, this is more of a marketing trick than something they're going to live up to in practice, at least we here in the opposition are trying to advocate that story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38249	Thank you. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38250	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that you are the principles of this subject of Biorefinery in Sisak, I have read quite a bit here as part of the preparation has been declared a strategic project. The ministry has resolutely given the status of a strategic project, plans are to invest EUR 250 million, so it will start in 2025, and the INA itself says that support is needed from the government and, of course, the European Funds. And what you said is crucial, and it's actually in the debate, it means big announcements, and the question of how much it's going to be realized together. And it's really important and I'm undermining here, and the secretary of state hears that the state can, so to encourage and produce, here I found this plant "Miskantus", so also a lease to farmers, all those land that stand unworked, incentives, and then it's probably going to be some of it all, not just big plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38251	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38252	Thank you, colleague Maric, I'll agree with you. The problem that these earlier producers of those three who eventually shut down was also connected to the state to pay off the incentives and debts that were being accumulated, but also that no broader thought was being considered, so they didn't even have the necessary material to produce that fuel on their own market, on the basis of what you were saying. So if we're really going to go to happen in practice what's announced with Biorefinery in Sisak, then we have to ensure that we have here and the raw materials, otherwise it's going to remain a dead letter on paper. If this is indeed going to happen, the announcements are otherwise to be careful that this raw material production does not go beyond the production of food because symmetry was happening, so is this directive. We are far from it, I don't think it's a danger in the Croatian frameworks right now, that we should start producing something at all, think about this time wider strategically so that we can have the conditions for this refinery to finally come to life, and with it and the jobs. And the people who will remain in Banovina. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38253	No more replicas. It's time to go now, ma'am. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38254	Thank you. Don't mind my laptop, but I didn't print it, so we contributed a little bit to the environment, I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38255	Can I read the same thing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38256	You can, too, see what kind of big letters I have to put on. Okay, I wanted to talk about this issue that's bothering me, and that's how we treat production resources, including biogas, but also other resources that come from biomass. In particular, it's an important question of how we treat biowaste. And now the way we treat it is that we're still actually dealing with waste management biowaste we treat malts not as garbage. Why like garbage? Citizens are paying for his departure, not that we're refusing to pay them the price. Secondly, the cities and I will give you an example of Zagreb, paying huge figures for transportation so-called. non-hazardous waste, among other things, and biowaste, and who do they let drive it to? Here I will tell you a recent competition where the City of Zagreb has concluded three consortiums, two of these consortiums are actually for the export of biomass and biowaste which, led by companies from the Bioen Group that produce among other things and biogas. Bioen is therefore owned by Oleg Maksimov, a Russian owner who, among other things, owns the "Biogas Power Plant Orehovec" and "Biogasara organica Kalnik". It's two companies headed by two consortiums who got that job. At 2.G. 48 million kunas from the City of Zagreb will be paid for one part of the contract, and another consortium headed by the company from the same group will receive 68 million kuna for it. So we're talking about some 110 million kunas for the transport of something that we represent in this law as a resource, as a resource. It seems to me like if Croatian forests paid sawmills to drive a tree to produce something from it. True, this biowaste is not completely clean, it is true that it needs to be further recycled and separated, but it is a resource for energy production and for producers who have a preferential status of the electricity producer, or that because they produce energy from renewable sources, they also get a higher price for their product. That price, that's the price we all pay citizens to finally get it. That's why I'm talking about citizens paying for it three times. And that this is an extremely profitable business. It's no problem what a business or what someone earns, the problem is what a measure is and how we treat what it really is, we should treat in a circular economy as a resource. If we talk about the circular economy, then in the circular economy, biowaste would be treated like this. It's a resource, so that means that the citizens who separate them refuse to do so from the cost of waste disposal. It means that the city doesn't pay someone to drive away but actually gets money for it because it's a resource. However, the city should have its resources from composts further where it will produce its biofuels for its public transport and it is a circular economy. This is not a circular economy, this is a classic kleptomaniac not to say how to milk money from public funds and pockets of citizens to create extra profits from certain companies. Not to say that these companies that I've mentioned are actually connected companies, they're tied companies, one gets in one competition, the other on the other, part by piece, part by piece, and you're actually creating a retail monopoly on that market and you're giving up the possibility that as a public authority you're producing biofuels for your own resources, such as public transportation or for your own services. I don't know, it doesn't look like a circular economy to me, and it doesn't look like a good policy in terms of protecting the rights of our citizens. and protecting the interests of the budget [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38257	Mr. Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38258	Thank you very much. My colleague Bencic, I've been listening to you on the board, and you're talking about someone charging people with biowaste disposal, if I understand correctly. This must not be charged and no one can charge for it, so you can only charge for the transport of mixed municipal waste. Everything else is free, and to take care of what you took, and by the citizens produced, somewhere you have to take care of it. Now, that taking care of something costs money. Now, I'm asking you, you're the same in a political race right now probably through your candidate, how are you going to solve hundreds of thousands of tons of waste, biowaste that will come out, especially now in the spring at the time of the bloom, when it should be circumcised, etc., where are you going to take it, who's going to take care of it and who's going to cost it? Will the citizens, the city, or will you make some kind of quick production that will fix it quickly? Here, just so we know, we're not talking nonsense, no. For false things are repeated [[Intruder: See...]] Our citizens can't charge biowaste. [[/Intruder: Yeah, okay.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38259	Now, [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Now you can answer. [[I'll be right back.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38260	So the price that citizens pay in total for waste is high because it's not valorized or where we have the conditions for separation, it's not valorized. The separation conditions and we don't have anywhere, and that's what we failed to say. Okay. But this matter of yours, taking care of it, it's not taking care of, it's not taking care of, you understand? It is, however, the resource from which the final product is produced that goes to the market. And yes, if you were to ask me how we would handle it, so, yes, if we had been able to manage it, we would have already built all the infrastructure for separation, separation, sorting and the same, as well as, the same accompanying infrastructure as composts, so that we could use for the public needs of a specific city or municipalities precisely those byproducts that come and products that come into existence because of course our goal, to cheape both public transport and energy that we pay for. and if they wanted to have it within the public authority, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] owned by cities and municipalities. [[Intruder: Mrs., Mr. Pavić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38261	Mr. Pavić has a replica. Mr. Pavić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38262	Dear MPs, we must not forget that these are not activities but are projects, that these are processes and we cannot solve it in one day, Mr. Boric. So we have a project that over a month, 2, 3, 5, a year, we make some sort of dump, to make biowaste storage, to prepare for the production of biofuels, so we can't do that overnight. And I agree with you, in the third month of this year, they won't do anything. But if a good project is made, if good project documentation is made, if EU funds are withdrawn, if funds are received from our funds, I think such projects can be made. Let us not forget that the construction of biorefinery is planned in Sisak, however, there is no plan to use biowaste to produce new bioenergy, but what is planned? Plant planting. Imports from China. It's already done. are being sent and... [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38263	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavić, you cannot replicate Mr. Boric's replica. You can only replicate Mr. Benchcock who will now answer. Which will now fit. Which will answer now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38264	Here, like this. So to establish this circulatory system from which both citizens and the public benefit, it is a project, a programme that lasts from 5 to 10 years to set up the entire infrastructure. What I think is wrong in the direction in which we are going, is that very often at renewable energy sources we go to mega projects or large projects, not understanding that the concept of circular economy is a concept that needs to localise the economy and that the measure is a measure that is a measure of local community and that these plants should also be owned by a local community which, waste produces, then uses it, so it recycles and receives a particular product from it that serves it again. No, we're going to another variant of the private investment in mega-projects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38265	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38266	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bencic. You said cities should have their own compos. I agree with that, however, whenever someone proposes to a compost near the city, the citizens rise because it will smell. Let's remind Bezovica, so there was a project, wonderful, beautiful, all that wonderful, great, the citizens are rising, of course because they'll have smells, because trucks will transport waste and, of course, health will be compromised. That's what the citizens thought. How do we reconcile these two situations, that we have close to cities, that we don't have great costs, and that citizens don't actually smell that smell and threaten health?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38267	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38268	Yeah, of course we have that NIMBY effect, not in my backyard. It is, not something specific to Croatia, however, we must say this. So good practice suggests that if there are emissions, whether they are, that they are smells, etc. or that it is any other influence on the direct environment, then it is a good practice not to place it near the settlement, and especially not, so-called. border settlements where people already live either weaker payment powers very often or in those settlements where you actually have any way marginalized groups. So they shouldn't be marginalized further. The second question, the other thing is that if you're already building near the settlement, then you have to use more expensive technology that allows you to shut down by reducing these emissions to an absolute, absolute minimum. But I'm really repeating, and I've often said that in Croatia we have so much space that's not urbanized. That some kind of question really shouldn't be a problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38270	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues Bencic, I fully agree with you that the public interest should, in any case, be cheaper public transport, cheaper public energy, lower prices for citizens in the transport of waste, and in any event, I am in favour of treating biowaste as resources to valorise it in prices. However, what I find controversial, what does the word "we" mean? What does the word establishing a circular economy mean is a measure of the local community? Why am I saying that? Because today we are talking about a concrete law in which we have transposed a European directive and when we talk about Articles 7, 8, 11, 11, then we see that there are national strategies adopted by the government for a period of 10 years, that there are plans that bring units of local, regional, as a rule of regional self-government, so who are we? We're passing a law again that won't solve the questions you're referring to. And I think the bad solution is that we rely exclusively on property owned by states, states, cities and municipalities. The possibility of private investment should also be released. [[I'm sorry, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38271	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38272	When I was talking about localization, then what's important is that you pick units, it has to be a few units because our local self-government units are so crushed that they have a joint facility that serves their needs. Why? Because if you're doing mega, if you're doing big ones that serve supplying a lot more people then you have to automatically carry it, you have to get rid of it, so you increase the transport costs, but not just transport costs, but also transport fingerprints. So the idea is that what happens in the community is recycling, reusing and using the needs of that community to reduce this whole effect negative that comes from both transport and in that sense, so we keep saying, circular economy is not a simple concept where we say we recycle waste. It is a concept and localisation of the economy and changes in the way we view economic activity. Until we figure it out with ourselves. We won't have a circular economy. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38273	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Ljubica Maximchuk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38274	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, today we have a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biofuels for Transport Act. These amendments and additions to the Transport Biofuels Act are proposed to bring the Republic of Croatia's legislative framework in line with the amendments to the EU regulatory framework created by the adoption of Directive 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018. This Directive establishes a common legal framework to promote the use of renewable energy in transport in such a way as to prescribe each Member State a minimum share of renewable energy in the final energy consumption of the transport sector to be 14% by 2030. Amendments to the 2018 law have established the biofuel market. A model was introduced for the penalization of biofuels on the market and this measure resulted in an increase in biofuels on the Republic of Croatia and was 5.26% in total petrol and vegetable oils in 2019. In addition to fuel and diesel suppliers, the system's bonds are public undertakings in transport, rail and tram transport. Since the beginning of the first car in 1886, there has been a rapid increase in road traffic, and thus proportional pollution caused by naturally motor vehicles. But given that transport plays a key role for society and the economy, the quality of life depends on efficient and affordable transport. At the same time, this same traffic is a major pollutant. How can we help? Of course strengthen rail and water transport. Strengthening intermodal traffic is certainly one way. In front of the Republic of Croatia, it is an extremely great challenge to reach the goal of 14% of renewable energy sources in transport by 2030. In line with the objectives of the European Green Plan, the Republic of Croatia should encourage the use of alternative sources of energy, natural gas of natural electricity. The national development strategy that we recently brought to the deadline of 10 years we see in chapter 3 that it is a green and digital transition and that it is given, that the Republic of Croatia has given it a great role. The main changes in the law are the introduction of new targets related to increasing the use of renewables in transport by 2030 and the way in which these targets are achieved. The inclusion of counties and cities in public policy measures, the construction of public infrastructure for alternative fuels and the projection of the use of renewable sources in transport in public services, today we heard that, of course, it would be desirable for the largest number of units of local or regional self-government to begin to regulate transport with alternative and use alternative energies. Greater and stronger incentives for the purchase of electric cars would certainly contribute to a cleaner environment. A stronger campaign for the use and production of biofuels. Education from the youngest days in terms of environmental protection. So in our youngest, we teach them how to separate and sort waste. Everything that is happening to us today in the climate must not be underestimated because what we leave to our young. We need to reduce the natural pollution and a series of legal measures that we are here today, which we are discussing today, and, of course, which we will bring in the future, is of course the most important thing to leave a clean environment for our younger generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38275	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38276	Thank you, Vice President. Comrades, you come from Slavonski Brod which is the best example, which means polluted air and how much trouble it can bring to our citizens' lives standards. That's, there's a little deeper and different problems and refineries and stuff. I'm going to touch this topic you've opened, which is transportation itself, especially road, especially public. Transport deserves about 30% of carbon dioxide emissions in the EU is just a problem and refers to transport itself, and now recent research has shown only in the course of this coronary virus epidemic in the last year in some cities by reducing transport, up to 35% improved air quality, as you mentioned. I think that the fastest and most efficient results can be posted by electric vehicles, encouraged and bought, if necessary and released by other excise duties, and also by certain types of taxes, in order to achieve the quickest results especially for larger environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38277	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38278	Thank you very much. Here's the first thing I'm going to do is look back at the air quality of Slavonski Brod. Of course it's been 12 years. The citizens of Slavonski Brod are struggling with polluted air. I sincerely hope that by crossing the refinery the Bosnian Ship to the gas that pollution will be significantly less. Here we have seen recently when these concentrations were up to 20%. The government of the Republic of Croatia has made great efforts to help citizens of course to solve this problem, we must be aware that this refinery is in another country, that there is only a way of resolving the talks and, of course, our external diplomacy. And as for this second part of the question, so, of course, traffic plays a big and key role in the economy, but it's also a big pollutant. I agree with you that the government should encourage the purchase of electric cars, which would certainly reduce air quality pollution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38279	Thank you. Mr. Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38280	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I would also like to refer to the problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod, which was said by my colleague Bačić, just maybe focus on one other part, which means that we in Slavonski Brod have a whole city of highways, that is the RH1 corridor, we have the railway of the same corridor, we have the Sava River, so we have 3 important traffic corridors and the biggest pollution, you said coming from the road section, so I want this one to think about whether or not our citizens need more energy or city administration and all in their spatial plans and efforts to co-operate with the state to make efforts to revitalise and waterway as much as possible, and also restore railways that will significantly reduce, reduce this pollution of these electric vehicles that are very long-term, which is small to say that this part of the value would reduce this part of the value. Air pollution in Slavonski Brod. [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38281	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38282	Thank you very much. Yes, an esteemed colleague since... Like I said in 1886. there is an increase or increase in road traffic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would certainly strengthen rail and water transport to reduce pollution, and inter modular transport would also be one way to improve pollution. Also in the town of Slavonski Brod, the town of Slavonski Brod really lies on an excellent geographical traffic corridor, but we also have this second one, it's air pollution. I'm sure here is the gasification of the refinery that tells us that this moment is not working, we're going to cut it down, but we're also left with those of our pollutants, of course we expect local and regional self-government units to start using in public urban transport alternative fuels, and we also expect as soon as possible to open the bridge on the Sava River in Svilaj to reroute our freight road traffic there and certainly would relieved and this one had a clean air [[Intruder: Time]] in the city of Slavonski Brod. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38283	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and the representatives of the ministry. The story of biofuels for transport is a story that has lasted for decades and appeared in the 1970s in times of great crisis. When we talk about fossil fuels or oil, then it began to think about how through some possible others, through some other possible raw materials to produce fuel that was used in the course of transport, and then in all other ways. And everyone of course learned about it, including us as a state and citizens, and we can't say that we knew everything about it, but obviously that many others knew a lot more than we did, and so these stories when the word "renewable sources of energy" is mentioned in the assembly, all of them immediately rise up and, of course, all of us know everything and, of course, nothing in Croatia is right afterwards, and they don't want to say that we learn and that every year we're better at it, but that of course we may not have achieved what we should or have drawn up because we have problems in the implementation of many a lot of projects, but also certain activities that happen in the area when we talk about energy or production, then we'll talk about hydrocarbons, so we'll have similar, let's say, themes. The biofuels of the first and second generations, of course, became the first problem because they used raw materials that could naturally be used as food and humans and animals, and the second generation is interesting because it can be used means raw materials from a part of the waste of all species in particular let's say what we are interested in here is the biowaste of the forest, the secluded and everything else that surrounds us and, of course, that we certainly have huge shifts and that there are doubts not only of our own, but obviously in the EU, how to provide normal, means the ability to produce food that we need as citizens, people, but also animals and not destroy the story of biofuels, and then move on to what we now have to a third thing that we may still be investigating or in some way about algae, I don't know how much we have to talk about, let't say, chances. And now that we're talking about our goals, which is to promote renewable energy sources, they were clearly the 20-20-20 or the EU2020 that says that by 20% we have to reduce greenhouse gases, 20% energy consumption and 20% increase the share of renewable energy sources. This is what we must strive for as a state, through our laws and through our strategies and through legal acts to adapt to what we have. And that's what we do through this bill. And now there are no simple solutions, and we always say, we had three factories that went into production there, but they had to stop, stopped again during the SDP government, someone abolished 2 kn of incentives, it came down to the fact that the produced price of the diesel was no longer profitable and of course it had to stop. Now we have a problem that we do not reach the limits that we have drawn because we have a 2005 story, when we started with such shyness through the regulation only on biofuels, so in 2010, we turned it into a law, so in 2010 we adopted the 2011-2020 strategy on what it was called, the Action Plan for the promotion of production and use of biofuels, and today we are where we are, we have found that we have not reached the limits, and then we legally force those who should produce it, not only to import it, but to do so. And I don't think there's much to be against. Now, I'm also calling these experts here, who are now running for local elections. So they say clearly now, we heard their solutions, they're theoretical, there's a tree, there's a flower, there's spring, it needs to be circumcised to make it look neat, but it needs to be taken somewhere. Now I ask you, where are you going to take it? Were you the same against some composts once and raised people as green, as left or not, that's where the compostana isn't built? Now tell us where you're going to build, give us the location. Give you a way of solving, we won't build a compost, so we'll tell you exactly where, so that people who vote will come to their yard in front of them? So let's see how they react. Are these all decisive situations, very easy? They're not easy. Why? Because we have a problem with this piece of waste and it creates problems on the CGOs, because it creates what we say smells like us, no, and it creates other problems in taking care of, about driving, etc. And it all costs something and you can't charge the citizens, you're bound to just record the discharge of mixed municipal waste and the amount of biowaste, just the records. You pay for everything else on your own.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38285	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38286	Thank you very much, Chairman. In your excellent debate, you have touched precisely the goals of increasing the use of renewable energy sources and what I would like to add here, given that you are an islander and I am an islander, you should point out that these incentives in these amendments to the law, should also be considered in this direction to reduce the cost of biofuels precisely to stimulate these biofuels, but also to increase the shipping of our islands, and so it will be mentioned that in this sense it will also be considered to reduce the cost of shipping costs and should also be considered the exceptions that the European Directive on minimum fuel excise duty is just prescribed and that it is not already known that in this sense green policy, it is working on these electric catamarans. nature would be preserved in the long run. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38287	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38288	Thank you very much, colleague Baricevic. Of course we find it interesting and shipping, etc., I think that for a long time, it will use fossil fuels and have, of course, state support, they know what they're using to say let's say that we have cheaper transports when we talk about islanders, etc., that it creates certain losses, they have a country subsidy, and we know how this system works. What's going to happen in the future? Science does its thing, will it go on the electric drive? Possibly. Is he going to get hydrogen? And it's developing. If it's going to be another renewable source, I don't know, but the fact is that's what it's all about. Now, as far as we're prepared to apply it, and under what conditions such as one ferry can pass a shadow storm, I don't know. I know this fuel is going and it's working. If everything else is going to be adjusted, I don't know. But what I'm saying is, we're getting the wrong assumptions here from some people to talk about something they don't know enough about and then they're still misinformed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38289	Thank you. Injury of Mr. Bauk's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 170, namely the President of the Croatian Parliament, returned as a drawback in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion the motion of the President of the Republic on the election of the President of the Supreme Court...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38291	.../Intruder Radin: I must give you a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38292	And can I talk about it, can I talk about it? No, I can, Mr. Vice President. [[But no, but it's not, you can't.]] speak, it says in the Rules of Procedure [[Intruder Radin: It's not an object...]] Because it says in the Rules of Procedure that he has to. [[Intruder Radin: Not subject, no.]] You read the Rules of Procedure, Vice President. [[No, you can't talk.../]] Yes, I did. It's not true, it doesn't say, Vice President, I've carefully read that article. [[Intruder Radin: Yes, and according to the Rules of Procedure you can only talk about the item of the agenda.]] It's written by an agent who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, who doesn't say it has to be about this point. [[Intruder Boric: He writes under warnings.]] So I'm advertising an injury. 170, in order to be able to object to the Constitution Committee. It is the only way, therefore, you will say that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, and I will say that I will submit a request to the Committee on the Constitution. It's by procedure. [[Okay. Wait, wait, wait.]] So, I believe that the conduct of the President of the Croatian Parliament has led to an injury. 170 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because he returned the President of the Republic to his proposal for a decision instead of having decided on it on the agenda, because this proposal contains everything that needs to be done under the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Boric: The Rules of Procedure has been injured.]] [[Wait, return the chronometer, please.]] If there are other comments, this may be determined in the debate. And that is why I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure so that this topic can be regulated by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and I am announcing that I will apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38293	The flat cannot be searched when it is, when it is not the point of the agenda. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, the truth doesn't say Al doesn't write anywhere. [[Intruder: Exhibition of Boric]] Where does it say? It was mine, it was my fault. Then tell me what the point is. [[Intruder: He has committed a breach of his Rules of Procedure to the exhibition of Boric, to someone's exposure to a must raise the injury]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38294	If it's all right with me, I'll talk about the president of the state now, and then you can get it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38295	Wait, we're going to give this to the Constitution Committee to establish that, the Constitutional Committee to determine whether your breach of the Rules of Procedure is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because this breach of the Rules of Procedure is going to some kind of exposure, and now there's a statement on the subject, well, mostly, but you agree to go, to go to the board? So go to the board, and then talk there. [[Intruder: Yes]] Thank you very much. Mr. Klaric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38296	Dear counterpart Boris, you mentioned, and today, during the debate, it was discussed the theories of various and different candidates and future options of available waste in a way that should be done. We had such a theory and such an example which lasted and boasted as a project in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County. Unfortunately it smells, smells and locals of Viskov, smells and surrounding settlements, a half-worked project that has practically become a black spot in the entire coastal area. And now we're listening to similar theories here, you touched them in your debate, where do they lead? So, the waste needs to be processed, but any waste is unfortunately stinky. Where, how and what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38297	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38298	Thank you very much. I'm guessing you're talking about CGO Mariscino. It's my county project, my mayor, boasting about it in 2015. as it's the most modern technology, the best project, etc., now that it smells, there's no one else left. He tells you here's all the local self-government, I'll give it to you, you manage. It's already been replaced I don't know how many directors, etc., but if it's SDP that can stink, citizens shouldn't worry too much about it. But that's not the problem. The problem is that we have new candidates' announcements that they will quickly and effectively solve these problems. Here are 110 million costs of taking care of your biowaste in the City of Zagreb. Now we expect them to be cheaper, that there will be no 110, that there will be a location that will be built, which will be built very quickly because in the following year they will come again and spring, etc. And it'll be all and autumn comes, you have to pick up the leaves, and then afterwards you have to go out to the citizens and say where. If you put it all in the clouds, you can fool them, and that's what the citizens have to understand. That's why we say they're at the same time They're always going down, and now they're going to build, and that's not really going to work. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38299	Mr. Boric, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. President. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38300	And the violation of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, we are offended by the representatives who have presented alternatives to the current waste management model in a way that says that we are, to keep things in the clouds, and I will tell you like this. You're asking it to be cheaper? As soon as we remove your 25% that go for different fees to your different client groups, it will already be 25% cheaper. So, not to go into technology at all, in the way of production Just to remove HDZ and what's left of it. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you.]] Bandic's clientele network is already 25% lower. [[Intruder: Bencic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38301	Ma'am. Benchcock, time. Time, ma'am. It's a ben. You have a warning because you say something is in the clouds and that someone is part of the discourse is not an insult. So you have a warning, it was a replica. Mrs. Devereaux. Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38302	Mr. Boric, thank you for seeing us winners at the next local elections in Zagreb. And since you were truly a determined partner, Mr. Bandic, I'm very surprised that you expect us to solve the day after tomorrow what you failed to do in the 4th year, as if you're not listening to what the term "localization" means and how things can be solved, and we know what your projects are and what they led to, so when you stop being connected with a vessel like that. with Mr. Bandic and the other networked, networked groups who really work from the waste for their own account, then we'll probably be in 4 years. make it so that we recycle in a way that our citizens will pay less and that it will not smell anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38303	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38304	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I didn't say that you would win, I said it would be okay if you went to the candidacy to then and say what you would do, and that doesn't mean that you won, but that as a program, you'd say where you'd do it because, I don't know, we had a location for the compost if I wasn't wrong in Brezovica, then they said green out there that it shouldn't be there. And now you have to say what the location is, if it's in Osijek, then you'll say it's in Osijek, understand? And it wouldn't be fair to go to the public and say we'll handle it, so you vote for us, not because everyone can say it, but in detail just the way it should be done, so that should be heard. And whoever wins will tell the citizens of Zagreb no matter what you want, and it should be seen what it will look like. I know from my experience how much trouble we have with biowaste, from our experience, and how much it costs to transport one to Mariscina, 100 grand... What? ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38305	Mrs. Devereaux. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38306	And where will you take him? Well, then you don't know anything about waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38307	Wait, wait, excuse me. You've both been warned that you've started arguing in an inappropriate way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38308	When I'm being dared by Mrs. Crescent. ... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38309	And you've got a warning, too. Boric has a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38310	Why me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38311	Yeah, well, because you answered something, something that was, it wasn't totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38312	Well, when he throws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38313	I'm sorry, he's throwing, but you don't have to answer the pass. Go ahead, move on. Go on, we've stopped this little time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38314	And it's been... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38315	Give back a little time, not time, but time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38316	Well, it took me 10, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38317	Yeah, for 15 seconds, we can't even get our time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38318	So, colleagues of Rada, you're going to give locations, you're going to give fewer amounts and we're going to, if you're going to be able to, I believe you won't, but you can promise, etc., so we're going to see those solutions work with you. Just so the Zagrebers don't get surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38319	Thank you very much, Mr. Coric. Chosic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38320	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Today, a lot of colleagues and colleagues here are one important green project, this is the intention of producing biofuels from another generation in the Sisak refinery, it is indeed one strategic project and would certainly reduce the impact of carbon gases on the atmosphere, but what is important, there is... products from a plant which is of Chinese origin, so Asian origin,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's called the Chinese chess and that you're expecting here because of various approaches and various strategic projects that are trying to make in this country, problems when it's seriously starting to talk about it because this plant can be invasive, I don't know, there need certain fertilizations, bringing water, anything that could possibly be a problem, if you're expecting problems, how you look at problems on that part, it's all nice like this, when we get to the realization, then it's just wondering why I don't know what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38321	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38322	Thank you very much, colleague,... Cosic, thank you very much. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We heard our experts today, say those of the sovereigns, he mixed bio-energy and biofuels, no, and they said it was energy, in the burners products if you listened well to your colleague and bio-fuels, but well, we have a chance for everything, so then we have a lot to hear here. As far as this third generation is concerned, I'm no expert in speaking here, but I think about this second generation when we talk about these wastes, it's been a waste from all the parts that bother us around us when spring comes and that's when we cut wood, etc. and the surpluses that there are, in hundreds of thousands of tons, it's some resource that we could think about and how to solve it, through and through the activity of the state but also those who are interested in producing biofuels. There's a resource, and that's something... And as for the other stories about waste disposal, there's no difference when we talk about plastic, glass, biowaste, etc. As far as citizens are concerned, we only charge for mixed municipal waste even though these here assure us that I charge them everything else, it's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's just say these are the truths we need to correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38323	... Zeljko Pavić is on his way. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38324	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are a little bit off topic, and I don't like my friend Boric to exchange views like this from the bench. However, I must say that both our colleagues and Mr. Boric, you who are the leaders of local self-government, know best what it looks like, waste management and what the problems are. But on the other hand, our colleagues have been doing this for many years and they certainly know and know the technology and know what to do and at what time it can be done and I would just point out that we cannot and can't talk about the price or the smell. I won't tell the smell on purpose because when you talk about chemistry, then you have pleasant and unpleasant smells. It is obvious that we are all talking about the unpleasant smells that spread from these composts, which spread from various waste dumps and of course it does not suit anyone, those who lived near Jakushec or 2,3 km from Jakushec, when the wind from the direction of Jakushevec blows, know what it looks like. I'm glad that here between us and my colleague Petyr who's talked a lot about it before, she's also talked about biofuels, I've read your many statements you've made over the past two years, but before that, it means somewhere in the period until 2017, 2018, and, unfortunately, here you see, everything we've warned, today we're being rejected by the head. And there's our problem because we haven't done anything. We tried, but we didn't make it. We wanted to, but we didn't make it. So we have a problem with that and as far as these waste dumps are concerned, or composts, we have to say that when something happens to you at home and when your pipe is clogged in the toilet, then you don't ask what the price is, then you don't ask what the conditions are, but you call a master who knows how to remove the malfunction to solve those problems you have in the bathroom or your toilet. And that's right, when we need to get rid of the waste, when we need to get rid of the compost that's created, whether it's cut in the orchard, or cut in the woods, we know how we're going to solve it. Unfortunately, we have heard here through our debate and through the replica and Mr. Secretary, that these biofuels production plants are in principle ready and able to be put into operation relatively quickly, but we are currently in a situation where we don't have these plants to charge with. In fact, the agricultural production resulting from the production products was diesel, currently almost died, given that the production plants were also closed. Unfortunately, entrepreneurs looked at it from their point of view, followed the developments in Europe, followed the writings in the EU directives, and based on these observations, they actually started production, or they started building these plants, then they started production, they had partners, they had co-operatives, and it was all wonderful and wonderful and it would have been wonderful and wonderful if we had respected legislation and we had used biofuels in the percentage we should have used. And even today, these plants would work, but unfortunately we did not respect these laws as we did with sugars that, unfortunately, we watched what happens to us when sugar producers blackmail agricultural producers and actually take off their product prices until they come to an economic minimum, they can no longer produce and then they stop producing raw materials for sugar production, and after that, the sugars have to be closed. Why? Because they don't have any raw materials to produce sugar. Unfortunately, here's what we have to do in the Republic of Croatia, so we'll actually be proactive, so we can start production, so we can hire new people, so that those plants that produce biofuels actually are us in our backyard and that we actually have our own production, so that we don't import and actually raise GDP for others. Of course, we need to do this as soon as possible, and this should be launched as soon as possible in accordance with our national development strategy, to launch these projects, to launch activities related to these projects that will put us in a higher position on the EU scales.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38325	Mrs. Petir's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pavić, I think that one part of the situation that is reflected is a reflection of what is happening at global level, but it is quite certain that certain things can be affected by us on our home level, if we recognize well what resources we have, what potentials we have and how to put them into function in the best way. In that sense, it seems to me that our advantage would be that we have a great potential for renewable energy sources, what we should do to see where in Croatia we have what resources and then, accordingly, to start building certain bioenergys as well as transporting that raw material, if we talk about biofuels, it would not be too expensive and raise the price indefinitely. If we want the rural environments to survive we have to give these people jobs, and this is one of the models where we can hire them. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38327	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38328	Of course, it's definitely one of the models that we can hire people in the rural areas of our country. And when we were talking and listening to those biorefinery discussions in Sisak, I had little doubts about the fact that there are no free agricultural countries or areas that could be used to develop and famous cane from China. Is there enough of them I don't know, I'm not sure, but in the projects that we could read or the documentation that we could read from the papers there we didn't see planning anything other than that cane to produce biofuels it's actually about the gas that would actually be. So I don't know if you've done a good analysis. I guess since one part of the older drive is going to be used, and hopefully it'll work down there and we'll be able to hire those 100 or 200 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38329	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much, you're free. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac, will speak finally on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38330	Your Honor, I consider it necessary for the end to present the following numerical indicators. For economic and environmental reasons, therefore, there is a continued improvement in the production and expansion of biofuels in the world and the EU. Due to a limited area of biomass production, biofuels could replace fossil fuels only in one part. According to EU requirements by 2030, with the development of other renewable energy sources, biofuels in Croatia would replace transport oil by 25%, representing in particular 452.325 tonnes. Today, agricultural areas occupy 2 million 955 thousand 728 hectares, of which a million 74 thousand and 159 hectares are suitable, a million 74 thousand 510 hectares limited, and 806 thousand 328 hectares permanently unfavourable for agricultural production. So, the potential of arable areas is over 2 million hectares, and it's only being processed by about a million. Today, in biomass agriculture, we are talking about organic residues and wastes to get 673 thousand 530 tonnes of annual biofuels without jeopardizing the natural renewal of organic matter in the soil. Croatia also has 2 million 688 thousand 687 hectares of forest and forest land, which annually increases about 10 million metres of cubic meters, and the blade is approximately 6.5 million metres of cubic meters. Of which, about 60% is used for industrial wood and heating, and the rest of 40% remains as waste in the forest. If waste fell to a normal amount of approximately 15% then bioenergy would remain 45%. This amount of wood for bioenergy is sufficient to produce 600 thousand tonnes of biofuels in equivalent amounts of oil. Using existing stocks in agriculture and forestry today, 1.2 million tonnes of biofuels can be produced. This amount exceeds 2.8 times the amount Croatia will need to use by 2030 instead of fossil fuels. Croatia has the necessary areas in agricultural and quality forests to produce food and biofuels under existing EU directives, but unfortunately Croatia has not put them into operation in a quality and functional way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38331	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will speak in front of the club, finally also, in front of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38332	Thank you. Although I'm used to Mr. Boric's manipulations, sometimes they actually go over to what's already a fantasy sphere. So, first of all, I said that the question was waste and the ones that separate waste, it doesn't valorize citizens in a way that they're rejected from the price. So, you should refuse, there should be a reward for that to encourage separation, I said it clearly, he certainly twisted something else. Also, the biopower plant I was talking about, the Orehovec biogas power plant, is located in St. Petra Orehovec, who also writes on their pages, produces electricity from biogas. It also says on their pages but the media reported that for purchases of electricity they signed a contract with CROTE at 14 years to have a 14-year-old preferential tariff, i.e. a fid-in tariff. Why is he probably defending them so much is the fact that it's a company that recently, at the request of the inspectorate, has been banned from accepting waste from Zagreb, although it has received prior permits from the Mayor of Koren, and see the devil, Mayor Koren is a candidate for mayor, who? HDZ. Is that right? Is he your candidate? Well, you have reason to defend him, it's clear to me, but what happens there is that Mr. Boric, who's such a great deal of understanding, didn't ask what's up with that 30 to 40% of the waste that doesn't belong to biowaste that's in it because it's unclean and it's actually municipal waste, which comes to a company that doesn't have a license to manage and take care of that waste. And that's where she comes in, and that company didn't have a license. And we have the inspectorate's records that he didn't have. Did anyone wonder where that junk was going then? Where's he going? When the city of Zagreb asked the question of journalists and journalists, they literally received answers in a way "we are more interested in where it goes then" because here, they took these, we paid, thank you very much, goodbye. Also, when you have situations where your companies that function in this way, and besides that they have the permission to use the mud that is left to them who, if they were of a mass, would not be dangerous, could also be used as fertilizer, while importing mud, at the same time importing mud, and now, for example, the mud from municipal waste left over from municipal waste can also fall into hazardous waste. I'm interested in how much energy we as a state have invested in controlling that the mud imported is really harmless waste and that what ends eventually in our fields and then even in the groundwaters does not really contain heavy metals. I was looking for more than a month ago. the days of our customs records how many times they took samples and what the samples showed, I haven't gotten anything yet. It's been a while. days. And why was I talking about this? I talked about this because some of the things that should be the most positive shifts in this country, sort of end up in my hands, I'm going to say, I'm going to be mild, suspicious business entities. And somehow it always ends in the end so that we have those ten-year judicial proceedings about what happened. And the damage done to the citizens is not resolved in the meantime. So what should be a great thing, so a circular economy, renewable energy sources is kind of a constant subject of research journalism shows like Traage, Verified etc., so how did we manage this whole sector to somehow constantly have some affairs? That's why I'm warning you. So I was going to say once again that let's concentrate our resources on really localizing such facilities to serve the local community. And this facility was supposed to serve the local community and they were supposed to do it on the basis of static manure, but they didn't, why? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38333	Thank you very much, ma'am. Benchcock, thank you. Now it's next in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club final, too, Mrs. GLASs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38334	Thank you, Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. There is no simpler way to say this, but it is not a problem in the directives that we are transposing in the national legal framework, but the problem is that we do not know what we would actually do with them. I will repeat that I agree with the objectives, with the main objectives and public interest as defined by my colleague Sandra Bencic, it is really important for us to treat waste as a resource, to re-valorize it in reducing the price that citizens pay for municipal services and for the disposal of waste, it is indeed our goal to see this circular flow in public transport, however, when we talk about the very provisions of this law, fellow Bencic, nothing that you have spoken of, in this law there is not. And I don't want it to happen to us in a few years like we're saying now that we missed a good draft of the Law on Courts, to conclude that we've completely misconceived the law we're talking about now and then we're going to say, so we haven't translated something well from what the EU has referred us to. No, it's not a translation problem, the problem is we don't have a vision. And here's a concrete example, so in art. 7. is said to be an integrated national, energy and climate plan for the Republic of Croatia as a roof document, which then has these issues of national targets for renewable energy sources in transport, etc., brings government, government and so on for a period of 10 years, which means more than the duration of two mandates. In short, we also have a program to encourage the production and use of biofuels that are made by the county, and that was my question asked to you, who makes a decision about what and none of us MPs if today he stood in front of any citizen or before the Bastian plate to give a press statement he wouldn't know what the Republic of Croatia decided who was going to build what, what kind of facility? Will it be publicly owned, owned by the state, owned by the municipalities, owned by the municipalities, how will we finance it? We've brought the National Development Strategy, we're talking about the digital economy and the green transition, not a single specific word of a concrete example. And it will happen that depending on who gets the elections in a particular county, city or municipality, each story will sing on its own adjective groups on one side or running away from citizens who are rebelling against the burner and composters on their territory. And the question is, what do we do, if we have a common plan, if we have some common denominator that these are the interests of the state, and that this plan and the programme that the government is bringing forward, I repeat, for a 10-year period, all of our citizens will profit. I will also point out that Croatia is famous for not holding any of its national strategies up to now and failing to meet it. Now imagine, these national strategies were usually brought by HS, so there's some kind of logic to some document that the state corresponds to. And the government as an executive body should actually be just a contractor. Who can guarantee that, in the next term of office, if the government is changed, a document adopted by a previous government will be respected, and especially if the document is undefined, the general document, which only repeats the phrase of the EU-wide target in which we want renewable energy sources to participate in total transport. Isn't that crazy? It's not a key question. I'd be happy if we made twice as much. The key question is how? Now, either we really have the authority and legislators of the law that has no idea how we're going to do it or we're actually hiding the fact that the subsidies, incentives, investment supplements, we're going to give to someone we already have from now on, but now the ruling knows that they're going to be whispered that information that is an average Croatian citizen, and not even to us as parliamentary representatives from these documents that we vote for in no way is visible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38335	About 12-15 years ago. I was helping my friend who wanted to start production of biodiesel and it in a way that actually collects old oil from the restaurant... to use rape oil and thus produce biodiesel. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It all went quite nicely, but after that for unknown reasons competition which today does not exist simply removed it from the market, it disappeared and simply could not produce it anymore. The problem that was mentioned today was that cars could not use biodiesel, so not all cars could drive on biodiesel. That famous golfer, he's been working on everything. Mercedes that old line worked on everything and on biodiesel and on diesel. However, a newer series of cars did not go on diesel, it is biodiesel that, only cars that have been marked to use biodiesel. So it is, and it is still present today and we have the same problem today because unless the car is intended for the use of biodiesel, you can't use biodiesel in it. However, there is a possibility that this biodiesel can be mixed with real diesel,... in a certain percentage of the mix and then to be used as stated in certain articles of the law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I would still like to say about this biodiesel is that we may have been focusing too much on this diesel just because we can use gas in transport, we can use the electricity we get from the sun, so we charge our buses or trucks or cars, so it's not just the biodiesel that's going to be crucial for our use in traffic and to raise the percentage of end-of-the-end use. If I'm not wrong there are some coefficients that are defined to increase if electricity is used for transport, so if the energy of the sun is used, they have these coefficients that actually increase, actually increase that percentage in use, so actually what we've achieved there is 7%, if I'm not mistaken, so Mr. Secretary mentioned, it wasn't just biodiesel, but it's actually other renewable energy sources that we're going to use in public transport. I wanted to look back a little bit more here and on the composts that were mentioned earlier in the debates. Just that, yes, yes, to mention, we can build people compos, both in the city center and on Ban Jelačić Square, but if we want it to have no unpleasant smell, we have to use expensive technology, so technology exists, but it's expensive and that's why we're going with those composans out of town. So we have some dumps out there that we can use after that, that we can use to produce bioenergy. Don't forget, we're in the middle of Vienna. We've got a junkyard. No one has any idea that there's a junkyard out there and they wouldn't even know that trucks don't come in there with garbage. So you can do anything if you want and if the rules are respected, if some norms that are prescribed by the EU are respected. At the time I was helping my friend, then I made an effort, so I learned some things about farms in America that were already self-sustainable, which were produced by biodiesel, which produced gas from stable fertilisers and could actually use all those fuels without spending a single dollar. What I would still like to point out is that, in fact, with this law, we still haven't defined everything primarily because one part of the regulation is passed by a minister and we don't know what regulations the minister will make. Namely, the average energy value of the fuel is prescribed by the Minister by the Regulation. The Regulation on measures to promote the use of biofuels in transport shall be adopted by the Minister. The programme and plans of the debtors are brought by the minister. The keeping of the register and the rules for the keeping of the register shall be carried out by the Minister. Keeping a variety of records brings. So there's a lot we have to bring in so that we can put that law in full function and that we can say that we can actually start by implementing that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38336	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Development, Mr Ivo Milatić will have the floor, the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38337	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. I thank you for the debate on this law that finally, as far as I could understand it, was actually such that you're actually more or less all in favour of this law. The dilemmas that were presented here and were not very often the subject of this law. But maybe I should start at the end. The debate of Ms. Honorable Parliamentarian Mrs. Oreshkovic that we do not know what to do with the directives. We know what to do with the directives. We're transposing the directive. This Directive shall have a transposition deadline by June of this year. So we're totally at a time when we're doing it on time. There's a waste debate here, and this isn't the Waste Act. This is the Biofuels Act. There's been a lot of talk here about junk. There were all kinds of energans, all kinds of inspections problems. Logically, there are regulations for that, and this law here deals with biofuels. As regards the national climate plan, they should know that it has been adopted by means of a Regulation of the European Union on the Energy Union. It means that each Member State is obliged to adopt a National Climate Energy Plan, to be adopted by governments, that each country has a duty to audit after 3 years to do so. This means that the theme that one government has brought, so for 10 years no one will change that. Of course, every country has an obligation to revise every three years, and it can be revised before. We have already intervened our National Climate Energy Plan so we brought it in time and at the end of this year we changed it according to the European Union's instructions because they noticed that some things might have been different. We have made it clear, and we have done so that this Law, and the Energy Efficiency Act, and the Law on the Power Market, and the Law on Renewable Sources, would be exactly what we would say in accordance with this Law. So, imputing that we're already going to whisper something to someone, that's, in my opinion, extreme and inappropriate. As for biofuels and constant return to those three factories that were and now they're gone. So the whole issue of this law why we're somewhere around 7% consists of it, it's the fruit of inaction until 2017 at 18, total inaction. So, laws have been passed, action plans have been adopted, and incentives have been adopted for four years that have been phased out. I apologize for the incorrect information that we paid 17 million kuna. We paid 70 million kuna for that damage. But we haven't paid one 20 yet because this company in Ozlja has not made a claim for compensation within the legal time limit, so we have succeeded in court due to the legal deadline to pass what would be said in Dalmatia's leaves. So they'd still be paid, and it was just done by the finance minister who simply abolished it, and Minister Vrdoljak couldn't handle it anymore. And that's a fact, that's the truth. I've been to that ministry, sitting in colleges, and I know that's the way it is. So we didn't do anything about it. Then they came before these two governments where I'm the secretary of state, there were two other governments where Most was in the coalition. At that time, nothing under these laws moved. The laws existed, but nothing moved. In 2017, when this administration came in which I was then appointed to do this, we began to penalization and environmental compensation, that we started to charge it, that we had ripped out the taxpayers, that we had found all the taxpayers who were hiding in customs. They're, uh, some of the bonds were misleading and they weren't sending all the data. We found it all up to one obligor we found. We've charged 260 million kuna environmental benefits and that environmental compensation is not stimulating that whoever pays her would have the incentive to pay her. It's so designed that it's actually a stimulating blending of fuel. So, environmental compensation must be more expensive than the actual cost of mixing fuel. That's the intensity of getting to the finish line. And clearly, some companies have clearly calculated that they may have more to pay for, at first these fees were higher, now they are less and less because all companies have organized themselves and started to mix fuel. For example, the factory in Vukovar, which received 70 million kn of compensation, is neatly alive, are not machines blown up, when everything on the subject was prescribed, and when it was clear that everyone had to get involved, it began to offer such offers to our diesel and gasoline sellers that they were simply completely uncompetitive. We can't make them do it competitively now if they don't want it or don't know it. As for biorefinery in Sisak, to say that it's cynical what we're saying right now, that biorefinery in Sisak will be, it's not appropriate to say, look at all the documents that we're doing neatly right now, and this National Recovery and Resistance plan where a whole billion are planned out of it for this refinery, where this innovation fund is also planning to provide serious resources, where it's planning to really support this investment for a number of reasons. In addition to the reason that this is an area that needs to be helped in a way that keeps them there and jobs and plants and everything else, we think it's a very good strategic move for the country to happen, that it's 55,000 tons of annual potential bioethanol production, that it's a project that will produce on-site was a gas for its own needs and for its energy, that it's a project that's going to impress CO2 into the wells in the immediate vicinity, it's a project that will have a total negative CO2 footprint. It is an extraordinary project in which Croatia can be a leader in the region and the Croatian state is firmly behind it and without the support of these funds which clearly, with the support of the Croatian state, INA can get, this project will not be. We're talking about 12,500 ha of potential surface area for miscantus, we're talking more than 1,000 people employed which in agriculture, which in this and now someone's saying it's cynical. It's not cynical, that's what we're trying to do the way it belongs and I'm sure we'll do it. Here again and again to the fact that energy and the environment don't go together, by the way, Mosta, who has brought energy and the environment together, I simply can't come to myself. Yeah, that's what they're saying, they're saying it's weird and they're bringing it together. And now I don't know why that is. As far as this legal framework is concerned about biofuels raw materials, we have the Law on wooden cultures and short-term patrols that were passed on two occasions, there everything is prescribed, so is the miscantus. So we have a base, now the only question is whether we have a project that will be initiated by farmers, farmers' businesses, action to move into that. It doesn't make sense to plant a miscantus and some kind of patrol if you don't have a place to sell it or if you're going to run it for 150, 200 km, then what's the point of transporting it and creating a new CO2, it just doesn't make sense, so that's the topic we're counting on. There is no refinery in Sisak without organising agriculture for this same refinery, these are two things that should be developed parallelly and taken into account. As far as the refinery is concerned, that's what I said about this idea from Mr. Zekanovic how the Austrians are smart, so they burn. Well, I'm '98. was in the middle of Vienna where the waste is being burned, so back in '98, and I ask Mr. Zekanovic and any of us on the subject of what Mr. Boric was saying here, please tell us which location to put us in a spatial plan in Croatia, or to ask the municipality or city to put it in a spatial plan and to go there and make a burn site so we can see how it will go? We have to who Croatia, who Croatian citizens are aware that we need to create some kind of atmosphere and in this appreciated home here so that these projects can happen and not just what we would say, say that is wrong, and then, as we just said, if we're going to do it, we know that, we can do it. Okay, I support you all and every idea to do something, but you need to create that atmosphere that these projects are okay and that you need to talk about them in one way that it's something you need and not only when we're in opposition against, then when it comes to power, then we're in and then it's an eternal struggle that lasts and then it's all expensive. And that's the problem, but here we are, and as far as Mr. Bull's debate is concerned, who keeps coming back to that unfortunate Krš Padjene and those renewable sources, I just can't come to myself after four years that I can always predict his speeches here. And he doesn't have a theme with this law at all. As far as I understand myself here in the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, here we should argue on the subject of the law, have not Fallen nor those unfortunate Velebit nor the drilling of the breach nor Dinara, it has nothing to do with this, but there is so, every time he says it and I would beg all of you to understand that as far as this subject is concerned, 14% is not completely something we can't achieve. We're talking about 14% that we've been coming since the first minute of the race that's since 1. 1st of this year, until the last 31st. 12. 2030, so there's nothing I just said that we left in 2018 to get to 7%. We're leaving now. So other than biofuels that have their limitations, which is the first generation somewhere at 5.5, 6, we have a second generation and everything else, we can't get there more than 9 at all, but we have electricity, we have hydrogen. So the future for achieving these goals is absolutely electricity and later hydrogen. To achieve these goals is absolutely electricity and later hydrogen. The theme of maritime transport is not something that's a fairy tale, something we've already started to develop seriously. The strategy for now together with the Ministry of Transport will be done very quickly on infrastructure in all ports, meaning LNG chargers as the first phase for the transition, hydrogen chargers, power stations. It is seriously considered at the Maritime Ministry that these ferrys that go to smaller locations that they buy on the electricity, on the charge, chargers are installed on the shores. To combine long-line tractors with LNG so that later that LNG can be changed when this technology is raised with hydrogen. You need to know today that all the ferrys made by Croatian shipyards for the last 20 years, that's what these ferrys are driving on these lines of Zadar-Preko, Supetar-Split and Valbiska-Merak, these are all Croatian ships they all drive on electricity. They all have electric motors that trigger propellers only electricity creates an aggregate that is a diesel engine in that ferry itself. These tractors can certainly switch to the future and only change the question of who will produce electricity in that ferry. And if it's going to be fuel cells, if it's going to be something else. So, we are convinced that 50 million kuna in the national recovery plan only for chargers, 100 million kunas that this year's Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund envisioned for e-mobility and for charging plants this and other funds that, based on energy efficiency plans, are foreseen, will be sufficient means to create a quality infrastructure for improving mobility in the coming years. And we count that in the year 2022 when we expect this pandemic, this accident will stop bothering us like this, that already one serious amount of vehicles from Europe will come, spend that renewable electricity on our pumps and thus achieve Croatian achievements in, in this, transport. That's what we think this one needs to do and we're confident that we'll succeed. There's so much from me about final.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38338	We've got a few replicas, and it's Mariana Petir's first distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you've done a pretty thorough analysis of what's happened in the past, so who wanted to understand I hope it's all together and understood. When we look at in general the entire EU, then we see that half of its electricity needs are being imported by the EU. Croatia is quite high on this scale when we talk about imports of electricity and surely that production from some domestic resources is something we need to take seriously in such circumstances. What interests me is to turn to the future, which is the perspective of the production of biofuels in Croatia and what was done within the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development to detect exactly where we have the potential to use renewable energy sources and do we have a projection of how to put them into function?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38340	As for biofuels, I told you, now it's the main focus of a refinery in Sisak being made because I think it's a great opportunity for the Republic of Croatia for a number of reasons I've mentioned before. As far as electricity imports are concerned, we import around 40%, and in those 40%, 13% of the imports of electricity from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which is owned by us. So, there's a great opportunity for renewables, and that's why we intend to make 3.5 thousand MW by 2030 new renewables to make our share of renewable electricity 66% in the production of total energy and to make that imports practically shrink to a minimum if we can become exporters of electricity. So we're going to seriously implement this plan, and that's why we put more than 5 billion kuna in the national recovery plan to improve the power grid that will allow all these, all of these potential investments to be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38341	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State is very interested in building a biorefinery in Sisak as a native Sishkenka. So the president of the INE administration said it is crucial to realise the project's support for government and EU funds. So we see there's government support. What is the government's concrete support? Have you already spoken to the Minister of Agriculture where we could plant Miscanthus? In particular, did you assign State Secretarys? Is it you or someone else who's gonna push that project? Because we know if someone doesn't push a project into the central body of the state administration, or the ministry, that it's going so slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38343	Yeah, no, absolutely our ministry is leading this whole activity because we're in charge of energy, and that makes sense. We will lead the strategic.../incomprehensible/... here's a colleague of the management directors will lead the strategic committee for the strategic project bio and refinery. We are the ones who, in particular in the national recovery plan, predicted funds and already communicated with the European Commission and received absolute support. Clearly, the innovation fund is going its own way and the ministry that this one is leading will do so. We are aware of the facts without our support and our support in the sense that the European funds of this project are not available. And the government is absolutely on it. That's just our minister's question. That's the whole government issue. The complete government stands in the way of making this project and I think it's a very good project. And that this project is for every, every good end because we think it is, because it's just a good transition for an area like Sisak in terms of refinery and the place itself. where the old refinery used to be. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38344	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38345	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned the inaction of the two Bridges, and then of the previous SDPs, which, for example, can't keep it quiet but for 10 years, the CGO project of Biljana Donja was stalled. Here, now it's in the construction process. So it's about 680 million kunas where everything seems to be what's most important and what's most critical and it's a waste to take care of in an appropriate way, and we know that all these activists are different, who don't really have any visions, or knowledge trying to do all that well with the vision that it's actually supposed to be all trying to show that it's not working properly and that it doesn't seem enough, and they're the ones who're the ones who've been stalling all these good projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38346	Time. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Peric injured Rule 238 because she said no... But she said that the government of the Bridge was twice a month that they couldn't go with you. [[You don't understand.]] You know why? Not because we're afraid of responsibility, but because we didn't steal the refinery in Sisak, not Krš Padjana, or the waste management that's on Lečevica. We did not give to steal and destroy Croatian resources and concessions such as on Brač... The Golden War. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38348	Time. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38349	I answer the way I said it earlier and in the discussion. We should all put a general interest in whether we're in a position or an opposition and then all these projects would go differently. But we're all responsible for ourselves. Mine was always the motto of life that there wasn't this government that didn't do something right, and there's no group that couldn't do anything right. It's just a question of whether we have a will, but it's here as it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38350	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38351	Thank you, Chairman. Let me just point it out one more time. So, I'm up for a few things. It is that there is a clear plan to know who is doing what and that this information is easily available to citizens, that there is order in the system, and currently there is chaos and chaos in the system. So, you were saying in your final statement that we mentioned energy, composite, combustion plants, biofuel factories. What I'm saying is that there's no one place written about what we're building as a state, who's the bearer of these projects, so who's the investor whether a state or some privateer, where it is and what we're actually going to do with it. So this is the goal of a legally regulated state and the foundation of democracy that there is an orderly system that people can plan both privates and citizens to know what will happen to their costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38352	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38353	I don't think so. You have a register of renewable sources that is publicly available. Register of renewable energy producers which is publicly available where you can see exactly everyone who produces, how much, where and what capacity. There is a Government Regulation based on the Law on Renewable Sources, which says how much Croatia intends to produce and from what technology. So there you can see the direction in which Croatia will go. Then there's a support program that's been working every year. There is now a major notification support programme in the Commission. Once we get it, it'll be made public. It will also know how much of it we could potentially do through FIDIN, through the premium system, and that's it. I just don't know what else we should know? Well, we're not gonna follow every single person in the pursuit of his building and location permits when he did and what he did. It's important that we know who what, where the projects are. It's all there and it's written to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38354	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative Pero Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38355	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State for failure to comply with the provisions of this Law on the mandatory placing of renewable energy on the market shall be raised significant funds from those who do not. You said in the opening statement that is about 260 million kuna, and that is usually spent as a whole through the Energy Efficiency Fund to get a vehicle through the fastest finger to say and the general goal is... Vehicles, as much money as there is in the vehicle, are bought and greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. [[You don't understand.]] However, are you considering changing that way? In fact, it is unquestionably determined by measuring that certain environments have more pollution and that a good part of the funds is determined for those environments whether they buy vehicles, whether it is for renewable energy infrastructures because we know that in medicine when they discover the disease they don't take those immunity pills, but to say they work targetedly. Well, there's a good idea for the Fund to start working that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38356	We will continue to go parallel by stimulating the purchase of vehicles, and clearly an even greater emphasis will be on the development of infrastructure. It's hard to change now in terms of getting a vehicle that other system than the fastest finger, because there is a huge, huge demand for, or huge demand for these incentives. And you can't make a criterion because it's practically gone, all the criteria are the same. Everyone takes a car offer and knows how much they can get maximum incentive. So the quickest finger could be solved if we only had so much unlimited money for everyone to come by and get it. But for now, we're not in this situation, so in that part of it, it's going to be for a very long time. But in these other competitions where you can valorize all offers and later score the criteria then you don't go there on the quickest finger. And here you just have all the same, it's just a question of how much money you have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38357	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38358	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, in my final presentation, I spoke about how much wood mass we have left as waste in the woods after being cut down. So most of it is used by the logs, and everything else is either left to rot or buried in the ground. Since the Croatian forest, i.e. the forest, is good from the general national interest protected by the Constitution, it is specifically an article. The Constitution 52 speaks of what makes your Ministry cut down because, let's say, I came this morning from Slavonia, it was painful to look at the surfaces of the Croatian forests on the right, on the left, which were visited, and the wood mass remained lying on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38359	We have nothing else to do here but to open up more added biomass quotas, clearly, with the demand for highly effective cogeneration, so that this biomass can be clearly used for useful purposes. I don't see any other way we could and this program is going now, we had recently this little program that had a certain interest, but not enough, so we're going to repeat it later, and we expect this big program to be of sufficient interest and we need to keep working on simply that and, enough people are interested in this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38360	And the last replica, Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38361	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I'm glad you remembered me all my speeches and here, I think that everything they write, I see you reading neatly what the Minister is threatening you and the environment, you do it thoroughly, but I've been talking about this, changes to the Biofuels Act, the increase, the reduction of greenhouse gases, the hydrocarbons, everything about Croatia, the problem of Croatia, the major waste management, the circular economy, the discarding of that biowaste, the di-reproduction, the way we operate, the way it's going to be, the effects, you haven't said anything about it at all. You just copied the European directive. And you're absolutely doing nothing except, like, the Levice Waste Management Center or the case of what you gave to your ministry from Vrgorec to transport 120 km from one waste dump to another It's trash. [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a sea doing every fool because that's what fools do. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38362	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38363	You just said everything with your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38364	We don't have any more replicas. We've ruled this out, concluded, we've exhausted the full debate, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, and now we'll take a break to clear the air for 10 minutes. We'll continue at 14 and 40. It's 2:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.40 HOURS]] The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on hydrocarbon research and exploitation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 70. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. You are facing the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, and this law regulates the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, research and exploitation of geothermal waters for energy purposes, underground storage of gas and the permanent disposal of carbon dioxide. The reason for amending and supplementing the law is, above all, in the need to bring national legislation into line with the EU acquis. This improves the transparency of the procedures implemented under this law and guarantees public involvement in public research, hydrocarbon exploitation, geothermal water for energy purposes and underground gas storage in a manner prescribed by the EU Directive. Directive 2014/52 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2011/92 on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment is transposed into the text of the law. The law further regulates issues related to the public process, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, the creation of a stimulating environment for research and exploitation of geothermal waters whose accumulated heat can be used for energy purposes, compliance with international standards for underground storage of gas and introduces a new concept of permanent carbon dioxide disposal as well as its use prior to permanent disposal, and prohibits mass hydraulic fractionation. During the period between the two readings in the Croatian Parliament, the main difference between the final draft law in relation to the first reading was as follows: nomotechnically, the expression of certain provisions in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Legislatives, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Economy, changes have been made in a way that the holders of the spatial plan initiates the proposal for a decision to initiate the process of harmonising the areas for exploitation with the spatial plan within 30 days of the receipt of the regulatory request of the Agency for Hydrocarbons. In accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, points 3, 4 and 5 of Article 65 of the applicable law, which gave the hydrothermal water energy primate to hydrocarbons. The publication of a draft and final solution on the verification of the oil and mining project as well as drafts and final building permits on the ministry's network pages is required. A geothermal potential development plan is being introduced, according to the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to 2050. The objective of this plan is to accelerate energy transition and decarbonisation of the sector through the promotion and structured development of the use of geothermal energy, to increase the use of renewable energy sources both in the production of electricity and heat, as well as in the use of all other content monitored by such investments. It is also intended to align the term according to international regulation and practice, and, as recommended by this House, related to underground storage of gas instead of storage of natural gas, underground storage of gas is introduced in order to stress that underground geological structures in which gas can be stored. It also removes the existing legal gap and prescribes that immovable property or construction inseparable from real estate in an investigative space or on an exploitation field situated on a maritime good remains a belonging of maritime goods, and introduces the possibility of extending the life span of a coastal plant for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. They would once again point out that the Law lays down a clear legal framework for the parallel implementation of oil and mining works when they include different uses such as hydrocarbons, geothermal water for energy purposes. This also enables the use of existing infrastructure, i.e. the use of existing facilities. This includes the transition of the use of hydrocarbons to the use of geothermal water for energy purposes, storage or permanent disposal of carbon dioxide in the old and exhausted fields. Also in order to apply to future funds, we stress the importance and possibility of setting up development companies on the agency's proposal and, with the participation of the local community, which receives the capacity to design and launch activities in its field in the use of natural geothermal potentials. These amendments of the Republic of Croatia follow the recommendations of the European Commission 2014/70EU of 22 January 2014 on minimum principles for hydrocarbon research and production and for the first time legislative changes to other European countries for the purpose of stepping up and legally preventing massive fragmentation as a risky and dangerous activity. In conclusion, we believe that these amendments and amendments to the law contribute to the creation of a safe legal environment for investors by protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia, while creating a safe, clear and visible environment for the implementation of sustainable oil and mining activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38368	We have several replicas, the first is Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38369	Thank you very much. Secretary of State hydrocarbon research, we already have exploitation fields, no matter what we bring in, we don't bring in, we coordinate, we don't coordinate, we don't coordinate, we have nine new research fields in the Adriatic. And in protected areas now in spatial plans, 9. We have a protected Vishjski Archipelag, where Palagruža, Apple, Vis, means 9, imagine 9 only in Split-Dalmatia County plus you signed with the performers foreign to drill and Dinaride in 8 counties, yes, it is. And now you bring this here that we're going to discuss. What are we discussing? Well, you've already sold it, laid out our Adriatic. Which is a shame, these are harmful projects and harmful decisions for tourism Croatia that would tribla protect its sea, its water potential your junk, your Dinarides. [[Intruder: Time.]] You're doing everything the opposite of what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38370	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38371	Thank you for your replica. Everything you said was incorrect. So there is no such thing in the Adriatic, there is no field in the Adriatic that exists in the protected area. If this field was included in the existing spatial plan of Split-Dalmatia County in accordance with other regulations within the ministry and within the hydrocarbons, what was protected and in the prescribed fields was not possible to grant any concessions at all. But as regards the latest spatial plan that is now under way in Split-Dalmatia County, we as the Agency for Hydrocarbons also delivered a detailed map to completely delete these fields. So they were not used before because 15 km from the protected area and 15 km from the last coastal line of the island could not be explored at all, but these squares were placed which were now deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38372	Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38373	Thank you very much. In a new draft of Split-Dalmatia County's spatial plan under, it is a brand-new Article 77a., a completely new article. 9 minefields for drilling, research i.e. hydrocarbon. And you didn't look back on the karst areas, our breach, to Dinarida in eight counties. While declaring it Dinara a nature park and other mountains in the Dinarids you've authorized the drilling of the hey drilling, yes, you have signed that I'll let you Show. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38374	So you didn't even call on the Rules of Procedure, this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure you have a warning. The next replica is Commissioner Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38375	Dear Secretary of State, first of all, I thank you for adopting this final proposal to comment on me personally and the SDP Representatives' Club for publishing important documents primarily building permits on the Ministry's website instead of physically. However, what remains unclear is why you did not refer to either the unaccepted requests or proposals or the accepted requests or the proposals or objections, which were relevant when I discussed in the first reading on this law the issue of a certificate of compliance of the proposed exploitation field with the spatial plan, which is issued in your proposal by the State administration authority. Since the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 129a, but on the basis of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, local self-government or its representative executive body is only authorised to propose and adopt spatial plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38376	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38377	From what I understand, this is the subject of this amendment that we will consider, if that is how you speak and if in consultation with the lawyers we see that this is something that has possibly come to some failure clearly that we will then manifest ourselves. You will certainly be informed of this one in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38378	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38379	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Croatia has great potential for the use of geothermal energy. According to some conservative estimates, it is as much as 800 MW and it is very important that all these procedures put before investors are simpler than we have had the chance to testify so far. So I wonder if the ministry is considering in this segment, in cooperation with other resolutions, really doing this to bring the necessary permits down to some reasonable period, not to last several years, as was the case with some previous investments. As I come from the area of the municipality where there is a underground gas storage area around, and in the context of recent terrible earthquakes it might be good to tell the citizens about the safety of this underground gas storage facility again here from the Croatian Parliament. Did the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or your ministry, after the earthquake, check the condition and whether everything is in Okay? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38380	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38381	As for the procedures for geothermal, geothermal potential power plants or concessions, I think that we are here with regard to the ministry or agency that does this on behalf of the state, really all the procedures have put them in a position that they are predictable and transparent enough and that the teamed agency that the room is given is excellent, so we no longer have a problem with having something many years. Very soon, this contest is over. Usually there's a problem with investors taking a commitment, and then, eventually, with their own reasons, they don't do it in time, and then it turns out like we didn't do something. And as for this area around the PPS around here, I'm confident that I can check it out, but that's probably what the inspections have been looking at and making sure that after this incident, all of this has certainly been checked out because it was in the area of earthquake coverage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38382	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38383	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. So in this replica, I will refer to the topic of the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia and the use of geothermal sources in terms of energy, or what it may be. For this we should also make a plan to develop the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia, so what we know, we know about the spa, we know about a power plant that is in the Great Ciglina, we know that there are several research fields where it is, I am interested in whether this Plan of Development of the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia is at some final stage, because I couldn't find it either on the Ministry's pages or on the Agency's pages, because that would actually be the basis. When we think about certain potentials that we can use, it must be one of the potentials, because since the Roman era, geotherms, or such water, are used, but only for medical and medical purposes, it would be good for some others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38384	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38385	This Law provides for this Plan, clearly after the adoption of the Law, we will quickly launch a decision to launch the Plan, and we think that this Plan will be very soon built, because much of the elements we need for this plan we already have in the existing strategic documents, and also enough data in the Agency, so this should also be developed strategically, publicly discussed, and I think that this plan will be adopted very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38386	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38387	My dear secretary. I don't know how we missed it when we had our first reading, but I'd like to ask you something about rehab after the oil mining work was finished. Namely, it is prescribed that the contractor must resuscitate it, that field where these works were carried out, but I am not clear from the Law whether he will have to report the start of the recovery and have supervision by the Agency all the time, or the Agency will come to the end of the works and see if that recovery is okay. I don't think we can know when it's all over if he's been doing the work the way it's supposed to be done. The second question, if the investor does not implement the recovery, is then the Agency is obliged to implement the recovery at the expense of investors. Are there any companies specialising in Croatia to carry out this recovery?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38388	The exact technical procedure as the start of the laundry goes, it is if it is not a problem later, here is Mr. Krpan, director of the Agency, he technically knows all of it, but sure that there is a procedure, and as far as the recovery is concerned, in case the investor does not make it, logically, that it goes on to his burden and if the rehabilitation companies don't happen to exist in Croatia clearly that they might be requested outside, but I am convinced that the rehabilitation companies exist in Croatia, according to my knowledge there are several companies, that I don't mention the names from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38389	Thank you, Secretary of State. We're going to a club debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and of the Voice. Honorable representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38390	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State, the Director with his associates. So we have in our second reading the Law on Amendments, Supplements to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. The exploitation of hydrocarbons always challenges us and quite an interesting debate and quite an interesting reference to all this together, but each country has some potential. So, in addition to having potentials in terms of nature protection, in terms of environmental protection, in terms of protecting certain resources, you have some potentials that you need to recognize, which you need to use further, and it is good to do through legislation, and also through reality some proportionate relationship, that is, all of those interests in space, because I am sure that if you go on time, if you do well, that this relationship can be done in an appropriate way. This amendment and the addition of the Law, regardless of what is quite extensive, has around 84, 85 articles, you have done for several reasons. One reason is because you had a pilot involved in public participation and the public interest. I can always pull that parallel with some other laws, it's good that the public participates, good that everything you have to say you say for the simple reason, you know, whenever the public gets excited, she gets excited when she sees something digging somewhere. And when something is digging up somewhere, everything else is already gone, so it's good to have it published at every stage, and at every stage, it's good to have it on the Ministry's website, or agency, available. The second topic I want to talk about is the theme of overlapping the use of space. So we have certain potentials that have been identified for years and there is a very different theme of research from the topic of exploitation, and it always causes resistance, because you have to explore, you have to record, you have to analyze to even get to the stage of exploitation. So I'm even in one phase when it comes to geothermal waters that I've already mentioned here, I said that it seems to me that the whole of Croatia can be a space for research, and where it is found it will go further into exploitation. Of course not, but geothermal potential is one that is extremely valuable to talk about and see what further in terms of development should be done. What I want to point out is this. We have some 25 geothermal sources right now. They have been known since the Roman era and have been used primarily for medical purposes, so it has proved to be one of the sources that can be used in terms of energy. The whole world, Europe, we must go in the direction of using different sources, therefore, in terms of energy potentials that can benefit us and that can make us a step. I'm absolutely sure that where geothermal sources you have a lot of things that can't be for a spa, but it can be for something else. I'll discuss it further in my individual discussion. So, uh... He's tied to Big Brick. [[You don't understand.]] I remember my grandfather saying that in the future no one would have to work because there would be oil and on our land that I still have my sister and I would, of course, draw oil, so we'd never have to work. Whether there's oil or not, it might be my kids or my grandkids. But he has geothermal sources. So, very close to my grandfather's, there are geothermal sources and there's the first power plant that was used there. I have to admit when it started, I was a little skeptical about what, how. But as time goes, it actually looks good, I'm saying it from one aspect. Not only does it look good, it's also the theme that it's in terms of using extremely great potential. The City of Zagreb has such potential. But the City of Zagreb, of course, has not yet used its potential. There was even a company called Terme Zagreb where it was seen that there was potential near the golf course, and then already, I saw a bunch of projects, a bunch of everything, all those slides, I don't know all these golf courses or the Terme Zagreb Golf Course and the great potential are geothermal springs. The more they explored themselves, the more I'd say not just in the last century, but in a time past, and that's some potential you have. I'm absolutely sure that when you have some potential, when the country has potential, when the city has the potential to use it, of course it needs reasonable use. I remember as well as you there is one of the UN's relating to the protection of cultural heritage which speaks about the next – when you do something and you find a cultural heritage and you don't know until the end what you're going to do with it, then you have the right to bury it with the earth and leave it for some future generations that are going to do it again, record it and bury it for future generations to record it properly. It seems to me that often and this kind of potential is the time for future generations, but I'm afraid that these generations, or I'd like those generations to be here right now and that those generations are really starting to deal with it. I want more, this rest I'm going to use an individual debate to say a little more, but now I want to point out three more things. One thing is the role of the State Inspectorate. We, we had the State Inspectorate, and then we gave the inspections to the departments, so we brought them back to the State Inspectorate not selectively. And then I said something that I repeat today, and it's not one mess in space, or you can't solve one mess with another mess. In 2021, we still need to change some laws to highlight the role of the State Inspectorate. And the State Inspectorate just needed to know what was wanted. If all that food business wanted to be in the State Inspectorate, it made sense. But now you have the State Inspectorate and some other inspections that some of them are in the State Inspectorate, some of them still remain in certain ministries, and there's a problem. And one of the amendments and these laws is to lay down what is related to the State Inspectorate. One topic is the relations between spatial planning and space for exploration, or for the exploitation of hydrocarbons. So I've given two amendments as a representative. One amendment is exclusively related to the relationship between the spatial plan and the area specified for exploitation. To understand until the end, a request for a change in the spatial plan can be made to anyone. You are entering a change in the spatial plan based on the council's decision. The spatial plan comes into force when the council, the city council, the municipal council, the city council votes it and the provision that should be to bind it to a spatial plan that is in force. Because no one guarantees any investor and it wasn't not a small number of cases. They get changed and complemented. Funding changes and additions. In the meantime, we have the election every four years. The city council has changed and the city council does not want to vote on that spatial plan. You must bind your conduct to a spatial plan which has been voted by the one which is legally envisaged for this, that is the municipal, city council, the county assembly or the City of Zagreb Assembly... Level. [[You don't understand.]] It is only right and only safe for two people throughout the process, for the investor, but also for the state and the agency. And the other thing is, you have introduced a provision in article 83 for issuing a valid permit for illegally built oil and mining facilities. You've had this before, and now you've said from the entry into force it's three years old and it's good to tie it to something. So, the crossover over the Republic of Croatia was 2011, 2011 was made DOF 1:5,000 and was recorded all that is above ground in Croatia. Because you're legalizing the country with this useful permission. And it seems to me that it would be an elementary courtesy to tie it to that DOF that started on 21 June 2011 and to allow you to give yourself a useful permit if you're in the time frame, but what's recorded in the 2011 flight, and not someone who's possibly doing it today, you're going to give him a useful permit within 3 years, but you need to tie it to some document on which it's drawn. Thank you very much, and I'll keep this going.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38391	The next debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone, so he loses his right. The following is Green-left bloc's Green-left Club of Representatives, reputed representative Sandra Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38392	I'm on my way today. Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that given the first reading that there have been some improvements to this text and that whenever we see the good will of the promoter, with the Government, that we should commend and stress it and I, I personally thank the Committee on the Environment for taking a concrete comment and remark, which is actually not to remove the permit for the exploration and exploitation of geothermal waters or the production of energy from geothermal sources, in case it interferes with the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. In fact, this provision that has remained from before has actually given priority to the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, after we have made a comment on the board and here in the plenary room, it has indeed been adopted and this provision has been removed, and now we can say that this situation has been subdued in some ways. However, one of our amendments in front of the Green-Left bloc club will also be that, in the case of research into geothermal potentials and their exploitation, in fact, if hydrocarbons were to interfere with hydrothermal hydrocarbon exploration, in which case, we should actually suspend the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons because we believe that this would then clearly show Croatia's orientation in the direction we plotted in the green plan, which is actually decarbonisation and entry into low carbon and we hope later and post-carbon economy. What remains questionable to us and what we have already pointed out is the situation with the treatment of geothermal waters, so geothermal waters in the Law of Waters as well as all other waters, are treated as a common good. Why does it matter? Because the general good is not in the ownership regime. We think that for the waters of any kind, it's a key regulation for the reasons that it's our priority resource for future generations. So even geothermal waters, even when they are used exclusively to take energy for them and we know what the argument is, so just taking energy water, the water returns, etc., but we believe that it should remain in the general good regime. Being in the general good regime does not mean that the state cannot manage it, however, the state has an obligation to manage it, however, it is prevented to enter into the ownership regime which is crucial for us to water. We know that globally it comes about water to how to treat water as goods to certain changes, we really don't want to go in that direction and we want any water, regardless of its purpose, to remain generally well. Furthermore, I will also say that we were actually surprised that the law does not provide for a phaseout or a period of exit, a complete exit from the needs and activities of the hydrocarbon research and exploitation because we have decided to support the European Green Plan, we have decided to support a neutral therefore climatic neutral Europe by 2050. So there's no climatic neutral Europe until 2050, if we're going to continue to exploit fossil fuels. So, the prerequisite for this is a gradual reduction but then a complete elimination of the use of fossil fuels. Now, the arguments we've heard are from the prime minister that we're going to do so. By a two-way route, so on the one hand we will increase the share of renewables but on the other hand we will continue to explore and exploit hydrocarbons in order to have back-up for Croatia's energy sustainability. And now I understand that goal that we really need to be energy sustainable, we need to be more self-sufficient than we are now and that energy security is of course important, but what bothers me is the deadline on which we give these permits. So, we're still predicting in this law that we're going to give those permits for 30 years, so if they're issued in 2021, it's going to be 30 years, if they're issued in 2025, it's back to 30 years, so we're going to be behind 2050 the last year when it's supposed to be the complete break-up with fossil fuels. Now, an even more important issue for our citizens is that given the types of contracts that are concluded with investors, it is very often about foreign investors that are protected not only by our laws but are protected by international trade agreements. In addition to being protected by international trade agreements, they are protected by the so-called Energy charter, i.e. an international agreement that has many international trade agreements, so-called the investor protection clauses or specific provisions on investor protection. These provisions protect investors from changing regulation that would actually harm their investment interests. We know what it's like when it's activated because we already have lawsuits, so when we're being taken over in Washington, it's exactly on the basis of such provisions, and that's one of those lawsuits that we've just got is from MOL. So, they wouldn't be the first state, many countries have a problem with investors who have sued them precisely for violating LNG charter provisions. And why did they sue them? Well, for example, one of the lawsuits is because certain countries decided to stop exploiting coal by 2030 and then sue them for tens of millions of euros. So these are not small lawsuits and more, because their interest, therefore, is at risk of investor interest. Since we're signatories of this, I'm asking you to think, not to expose ourselves to potential lawsuits in case in 2040 we want to, for example, stop exploiting or go to a more serious phase out, give ourselves that opportunity, and we can give ourselves that opportunity so that we can now put into law that every license is issued by 1.1.2040. This does not mean that if we decide to do so, if circumstances change, if we have an energy crisis, that we cannot extend or renew these permits. But if we do this now, we're going to give each one 30 years, and we may need to break those contracts beyond these provisions legally, rather than regulation, we're really going to be exposed to potential huge claims for damages to investors. I really don't want us, our citizens and future generations to have to pay for it. And for that reason, our proposal, one of the amendments, is going in that direction to limit it. So we think it would show the will, the desire and what we're saying at the declarative level, and that's the support of the green plan, that we should also have a clear date when we stop exploiting coal. You know that the whole process of using fossil fuels goes first coal, oil and gas. So we still don't have a date to stop coal exploitation. We don't know when we're closing Plomin, we don't know if further investments are going to go maybe in a direction that will stimulate and exploit coal. I think as a first point right now we should already have a cut off date for coal. Everyone's afraid for some reason, no one wants to commit to a specific date. However, we believe that this date is important not only to show me the will to implement the green plan, the objectives of the green plan, but also to make sure that all those working in the industry know what they can count on. These things must appear to me at least five to ten years earlier. And now we're about to do it. So, further I would like to say that as the thing is set for me, it still does not reflect Croatia's clear orientation towards replacing fossil fuels with renewables recently, so in some more serious scale. And it also shows no understanding that we must lead this green transition through the strong role of the state. Both states and local self-government, not leaving things to the market, exclusively because this process requires an extremely strong leadership and an extremely strong role of regulators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38393	The next debate is on behalf of the MOST representative, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38394	Thank you very much. In the replica, I told the Secretary of State if soon we would be in Dinarids, Dinara, Velebit where squatted, guard, killed and defended Croatia's homeland on our beautiful mountains soon strange platforms will emerge that will drill the Adriatic. Of course you signed the survey, of course you excluded Plitvice National Park in this area and, of course, in the proposal for a spatial plan of the Split-Dalmatia County, we have 9 newly foreseen in one article, the new article was added on purpose, targeted, strategic 77a. hydrocarbon research sites in the Adriatic hydrocarbon exploitation programme, which means the folkly spoken drilling of the Adriatic. So soon we'll probably see down platforms that will look like strange things in the tourist season. It will be something wonderful in the tourist offer. It would be a shame to offer other destinations such as our quality mountains, facilities, rivers, forests, islands, beaches. But don't stick around to the beaches of your ministry. Here I was the other day and in Makarska, down Mate Vujnović and the team is digging up the pits on the beach of Sike, the white singing Macarski regrettably sang, though unfortunately we won't see the concreteisation of the entire coast soon. So these platforms wouldn't be weird, either. Nine, according to the proposal now in the county, nine fields of investigation in the area around Vis, Palagruža, the coastal islands nine means this in protected areas which were declared protected by UNESCO in 2019. Lastovo and these parts of our beautiful Adriatic are planned in the spatial proposal of the Split-Dalmatia County. I could talk more about it with my colleague Sanader, but he's the chairman now. Because they are probably much more involved in making these and such quality decisions for the development of tourism. Because it's a shame not to see these platforms that the Sinjska alka, a zero monument of cultural, mobile, which, I don't know, will give you a miracle Lady Sinjska as a religious content, which will give you that in Cetinje Krajina, the first football ever played in the world, the first football, two thousand years ago, by the FIFI. So we have a number of contents, but you think of hydrocarbons. And now I'm reading this law. I'm reading this Law and I see colleagues and colleagues, thank you so much for putting it in, they'll put it all in, don't be afraid, it'll all be written, but you'll get platforms. You opposed the idea of something not coming, but it came without a problem, so that everything they write on paper can be freely thrown into the toilet, there will be faster flow to the sewers, because everything they make, they make the interests of the Croatian people, national security, the same with other similar problems. We had strong research fields, not in Croatia, i.e. Not research fields, but we had white nights, white nights black roads, or vice versa as Thompson beers. Di is now, you were at the HNS during the time, Secretary of State, you were then, very well it went during Slavko Linic, it went away, so later what the SDP started, ended HDZ, no INA. That's it. It has, it says INA but it has nothing to do with Croatia. That's the problem. So our resources and our potentials, that's where we mention these waters, that water, basically a cross, 8 counties, is the most quality land, the most quality area, protects one area, it's a special area, it's an area of beautiful drinking waters, but it's going to take place just like on the Adriatic. Lipe Platforms, and then we from Dinara, celebrate our Dinara, not only have we declared it as Velebit, Dinara as nature parks, but we don't have that remorse, it's going to go to Biokovo, it's going to go downhill, and it's going to be so, unfortunately, and the point before it was to deal with a whole other topic, renewable energy sources. And that's what the government signed to investigate, and then three years later, it'll be exploited by the INA. As will be. And it's not sustainable development, we have resources, potentials, our Adriatic is potential and resource. It's not someone's girdle, who can drill and dig around and pay off anyone's thoughts as to whom it comes to mind. Since the Rapal Treaty in 920, we have not had the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt to our country and before entering the European Union. So since 920, Italians, a colleague of Sanader, a friend of your President fascist Tajani, has continued to usurp our Dalmatia, our Istria, and will not win it, will not, you can drink with it, same, dilith, tezgarite, win it no, nor will drill it. Neither Dinara nor Velebit. Is on Velebit someone left their head in the Homeland War and ran over all of Dinara and no one has the right to do it, no one has the right to sign it. Minister Coric said he signed the survey. He signed it, he said in Sibenik in 2020, I don't know, at the end. So all the laws that we are discussing here, we can actually make amendments, and I have some amendments, but basically, this is just that we can boast to European officials that we have fulfilled the obligation to comply with the laws on European norms, regulations, directives, and I don't know what everything. We have everything on paper, I think no Parliament has passed any more laws. So we discuss four, five laws a day. And mostly the copycat, she's heavy, classical, not plagiarism, she's a copyist. From letter to letter. It is not a directive order, the directive is like a recommendation, and we are those who, within these circumstances, can change the gauge, we can protect, we can work out, we can plan in a completely different way than clean, mere copying of the Directive. And at the end of this term, when this term is over or let this session end, then there will be the press president of the Parliament who will say we have brought, I don't know, 400 laws, we have aligned with the European Union, the stars behind it are shining, and at the same time, the stars of the European Union, they would say... I remember when that Sanader thing, Ivo, not Ante, raised the flag, so he said we'd raise gold, that when we get into the European Union, they lied so much, it's a hoax worldwide, I think it's amazing. [[the speaker doesn't understand...]] The people have never been told the truth, and at the same time these monsters will be destroyed by Dinara, by Velebit, I don't know where. Instead of protecting our resources, our water, our junk, our Adriatic and we are ruling in accordance with our strategies, whether tourism, whether developmental, whether energy, so I said Krš-Paden an example of Croatian governance. A breach-Passed wind power plant, for example. Two billion kunas went out of the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And again, now, again, I call on your coalition partner of HDZ ruling Milorad Pupovac, which he did not report about this Krš-Padena, there the people of Serbian nationality live. I repeat again, people of Serbian nationality, of course political Croats, because they probably chose him too, I don't know if he was there except when he solved the documentation to make Krsh-Padjani. And what harms the people, what the people in their pockets, the money is coming out, which is ecologically unacceptable, which is in the middle of the village, it's less important. He's gone. You can't hear him. They are not heard, except that they are neatly in the coalition with HDZ in Sibenik-Knin County, they work well there, they are functional, the party Milorad Pupovac and they are neatly watering and they are very efficient in destroying natural resources, from Dinara, Krka, all other potentials, sources of Cetina and cultural goods, I am surprised that they are not at the church of St. Rescue from the 9th century put plastic windows on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38395	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honorary Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38396	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear state secretary with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A few weeks ago, we discussed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons in the First Reading, and at the outset I will start from the difference between the solutions offered by this final bill and from the solutions set out in the bill that was in the first reading. The promoter also noted what we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament and certain proposals presented here, so that, in accordance with the opinion of the two parliamentary committees, the deadline for launching the process of harmonising the areas for exploitation with the spatial plan instead of the initial proposed 8 days per 30 days, it was further clarified in the final proposal of the law that it was not necessary to decide on the launch of the process of harmonising the areas for exploitation with the spatial plan, but rather on the initiation of the procedure which begins with the launch of the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure. The opinion of the Environmental and Nature Protection Committee and the removal of provisions which eliminate geothermal water research if these studies interfere with or threaten the exploration of hydrocarbons in the same research area or the exploration of hydrocarbons in adjacent research areas, if the research endangers future hydrocarbon exploitation or if the research interferes or interferes with or threatens the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the identified exploitation fields, which is all in the spirit of fostering the use of renewable energy sources. I would also refer a little bit to the discussion of the president of this committee, colleague Bencic, who thanked the government for following the proposals, I will say that the government always respects all the good proposals, only when such proposals are proposed but also the part where it talks about the exploitation of hydrocarbons after 2050, however, hydrocarbons are not only fuel but in many situations are also used as raw materials. The promoter also accepted the SDP's proposal to draw up individual acts related to oil and construction projects and permits, published on the ministry's website. Furthermore, in relation to the first reading in the final proposal for a law, the erasure of certain articles has been carried out to avoid the double regulation of the same provisions relating to compliance with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act or to the provision that the inspection of the protection of nature is within the scope of the State Inspectorate. A plan for the development of the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia for the management of geothermal waters is introduced in line with the direction of the Republic of Croatia towards decarbonisation and the increased use of renewable energy sources and thus fostering the use of geothermal energy in accordance with the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to 2050. It is necessary to carry out an assessment of the impact of research and exploitation of geothermal waters for energy purposes, while safeguarding environmental and nature components. This will clearly determine the geothermal potential and the possibility of its use by respecting environmental and nature protection requirements. For the purpose of harmonising the term in accordance with international regulation and practice related to underground gas storage, the new article adds, instead of the concept of ‘storage storage of natural gas’, the term ‘underground storage of gas’. I must stress that, as we pointed out in our first reading, this final bill will bring national legislation into line with the legal acquis of the EU, so that the definitions of the public will be transposed, representing one or more natural or legal persons, their groups, associations and organisations in accordance with specific regulations and practices, and to the public concerned, which may be influenced or affected by environmental decision or have an interest in environmental decision-making, as well as civil society organisations operating in the field of environmental protection and meeting all the conditions in accordance with the law governing environmental protection, will be considered to be an interested public. In conclusion, the public and the interested public will be able to access the judiciary with regard to the approval of requests issued under the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. Also, it is undoubtedly clear that overlapping of research spaces, i.e. exploitation fields for different purposes, is possible, and in the case of different hydrodynamic units, e.g. hydrocarbons and geothermal waters, underground gas warehouses and secret carbon dioxide disposal unless they are located in the internal sea waters or the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia. This law introduces the powers of the Agency for Hydrocarbons, for the implementation of certain investigative works for the promotion of the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia, and for the special procedure of issuing permits for the operation of oil and mining plants for the manufacture or refurbishment of the well, given that the existing legal procedure for this purpose is inapplicable and not appropriate. In addition, it is introduced to equate permanent CO2 disposal with the new term "sustainable care with use" with the condition of ensuring full CO2 separation and to allow its safe return to the system of permanent disposal in the bed. That amendment contributes to the global acceptance of greenhouse gas emissions reductions. The proposed law opens the possibility of setting up a development society to promote development and use the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia in order to increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption. Determination of fees for access... The data are organised in the premises of the Agency for Hydrocarbons, which are charged for the use of data should be regulated by a special regulation, given that SOBIS data and data use are revenues of the state budget. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law clarifies that the Agency prepares and delivers initiatives for the production, modification and addition of the spatial plan and participates in the procedures in accordance with the rules in the area of spatial... in order to implement the Framework Plan and the research and exploitation programmes of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic and the Framework Plan and the research and exploitation programmes on land. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A ban on mass hydraulic fractionation is defined as risky and dangerous activities. The law contributes to the creation of a secure legal environment for investors by protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38397	The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38398	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian National Assembly, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Hydrocarbons, which is before us, is making certain changes which, as we have heard so far, are in line with EU legislation. I'm going to look back at this debate in a few parts. Since the first reading that was recently made, the law has suffered certain changes which are also suggested on certain committees, as well as in the parliamentary debate and what I will look forward to, it is one fact that in its first part this law refers to the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment and the involvement and information of the public. In fact, so far, we have been assured by the ruling that the public is informed in this segment and that everything is fine, so we have heard from both the Minister and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister several times that this is not a problem and the public is involved and informing. But if we remember the impelation of government work in connection with the Krsh-Padene project then we had such a rather heated debate which the rulings refused because they claimed the government was not a postman, and all requested documentation was publicly available, although certain contracts did not. When it comes to answering the questions of MPs, all deadlines are broken, and here I have been waiting for more than a month and a half to have several parliamentary questions given to me by the Ministers of Answers, and there is no help in the haste sent by the President of the Croatian National Assembly. I believe I'm not the only one. So any initiative that will increase transparency and public information is welcome, should be supported, remains to see how much public will be involved in new projects when it comes to environmental impact assessment. We know that there are several wind parks where this was not done properly, but to mention Krš-Paden where there were major changes in the project. I will remind you that the force of the aggregates has increased, the diameter of the shovels, the height of the pillars and, accordingly, the locations have changed, and no new environmental impact assessment has been made since Minister Coric decided that this is not necessary. Then, Ve Portrait 2, which has led us to get our pucks from the EU, and we have the court ruling again regarding the environmental impact assessment. It may not be important for us or for the ministry of rare birds, but the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive are very important in the EU that we are a member of. The second part of this law refers to the use of research wells for the use of geothermal sources. It is known that geothermal sources are also available in Slavonia, both in Zagorje and in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia, of course there remains a question for which these geothermal sources can be used because they are not all similar to electricity production. It is interesting, though, that it has led to inter-strategic projects in preparation in five Slavonian counties of several projects related to geothermal potentials, with the following amounts. Osijek-Baranja County 75 million kuna, Požega-Slavon County 88 million kuna, Virovitičko-Podravska County 20 million kuna and Vukovar-Srijem County 180 million kuna for research into geothermal potentials. It's kind of a convenient match to the National Recovery Plan where over 30% of the funds have to go to green projects. Only project documentation is related to the survey of geothermal potentials in Osijek-Baranja County will cost 3.2 million kuna. The current mayor, Ivan Anusic, points out that geothermal energy will be used cascadely, as this law provides for the acquisition of electricity, agriculture and health tourism. It sounds great, if you don't live in that county so you don't know the following, namely in Bizovac you have a spa, the hotel has been closed for several years and there's no indication that it will open soon. There was supposed to be wellness, all newly renovated and it was long ago, and therefore the private owner does not see business interest and hotel yawns closed and collapses, and now our mayor will go to health tourism or another pre-election village of Pojpkin. We'll see, my colleague Davor Dretar would say. Let us return to this modular or cascade system of geothermal water use. As I said, such a model enables the production of electricity, the use of waste geothermal water for the purposes of heating and for agriculture or for heating of greenhouses or other purposes. In doing so, we must bear in mind that this rests on abundant incentives from the state budget and double. First of all, we encourage production from renewable energy sources in this case of geothermal energy, and then for the second time through incentives to agricultural production. Of course, all of this is paid by the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia through electricity and taxes bills. The premium model for production from renewable sources is already unnecessary in certain segments. Geothermal energy is certainly one of those as well as solar energy because investors themselves declare to invest in megasolare without premiums because the level of investment is significantly reduced due to the price of solar panels. What the state should stimulate is the installation of solar panels on family houses and residential buildings to make our residents energy independent, not to take from all of us and then pour into the pockets of the chosen. In particular, given that these changes and additions to the Law on Hydrocarbons opened up the possibility of using hydrocarbon probes for the purpose of research and exploitation of geothermal waters, which significantly reduces the level of investment. The last provision I will refer to in this exhibition refers to a measure aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It refers to the suppression of carbon dioxide underground. This technique is nowhere near to be worth mentioning in relation to the construction of a low-carbon society. It's just a correction of a disbalanced system that's been caused by over-exploitation of fossil fuels. It is quite insecure and unknown about the long-term effects on the environment, the underground and everything that is related to it. In the end, I have to point out the following. The exploitation of hydrocarbons as energy in the economy of a modern and civilised state must, by meaning, reach where it belongs in the 3rd decade of the 21st century, which is at the beginning. So in this context, the search for hydrocarbons as energy is not and should not be a priority. Those supplies are here. They're not going anywhere, but they can and should be a reserve that will always come in handy but not as energy, but as raw material for the organic chemical industry. Therefore, it should not be imperative to call concessions and thus make it possible to use hydrocarbons as a preferred economic activity as quickly and as productive as possible. The law mentions the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in several places, but only better use of geothermal sources has in principle a real net contribution in this direction, respecting certain changes in the premium system that should be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38399	The next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38400	Honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia will all agree that energy sources or sources of energy are whatever it is. It was about oil, it was about gas, it was about geothermal waters, it was about any other energy resource, and although they are not explicits mentioned in the Constitution as a strategic interest, natural resources are listed as an interest special to the Republic of Croatia, and on the basis of that, we are obliged to protect them because of the Constitution itself. And how do we protect them? Only in a way to leave them in our own hands, not in other people's hands. So what kind of man is he born in the Republic of Croatia, who lives in the Republic of Croatia, whom Croatian citizens choose to represent, to protect the interests of their homeland, and this same man betrays Croatian interests? I wonder what kind of genetic code that is? How can such a human being even be born? The issue of strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, including only the special interests of the Republic of Croatia, and the only interests of the Republic of Croatia defined by the Constitution for me is high treason, although as such is not defined in the Penal Code, but can be considered treason. It can be considered an issue of Croatian interests. And when does the betrayal of Croatian interests take place? When energy resources were given into other people's hands, it was that they were given into the hands of a foreign country or other countries or given into the hands of an individual. They are not left in the public interest, in the public interest, in our Croatian interest, in our jurisdiction, in the jurisdiction of Croatian citizens because the Republic of Croatia is Croatian citizens and not institutions. If it were up to me, such treason would be high treason and a dragon punishment would follow for it. One who would commit that betrayal would be a traitor, because the state is without energy resources. Just a servant to someone else. Such treason is somehow pushed under the rug by the adoption of amendments to this Law. What am I saying that for? Because we are all somehow forgetting why these amendments to the Law are even being adopted, and they are being adopted because the European Commission has made an observation that we need to harmonise the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Carbons with the European Directive, and that is to say with regard to the assessment of the impact of public and private projects on the environment and transparency and public participation in this process. So somehow we all look back at this public participation, although it is not at all questionable that this public participation has been missing all along. But somehow we all keep quiet, think maybe less important, or not ringing enough in our ears just this assessment of public and private projects in the environment. Why am I saying that? Because we are talking here about private projects in which the Republic of Croatia, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, did not comply with this Law with the European Commission's observation, concessions for research and exploitation of geothermal sources, were given in private hands. And you're wrong about your coworker Mrak-Taritash when you say that Zagreb did not find one such source to be managed accordingly. It is, but only until 2015 when Zagreb, i.e. Zagreb's company, expired its concession on such sources and Zagreb, i.e. Zagreb's company, the company owned the City of Zagreb did not find itself eligible to apply for a re-referencing competition. And look at the wonders, they found a company just founded without employees. Although I apologize, among the criteria for selecting the most favourable bidder in the competition for issuing a permit to explore geothermal waters, it is clear that it is important to take care of the number of workers in employment, technical and professional capacity of participants and so on. So you see the concession on the geothermal sources of Zagreb gets a company without employees. The city of Zagreb does not need geothermal sources. The European Commission has set a period of 2 months to correct the shortcomings of the existing Law and to comply with the European Directives. And in two months, why didn't those defects correct themselves? Because the issue of strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia could not be allowed within two months, i.e. the handover of very important energy sources into the hands of private companies. However, it took a little longer, it took two years, and that is why only now, 2 years after 7 March 2019 we are harmonising the Law with the European Directives, now that all potentials are important, they are important potentials, and I will tell you what important potentials are already in private hands. And the key potentials are they, or a dozen of the most important locations where evidence can be found to build a geothermal power plant, which are well - known. Why are they famous? Because all these locations are because all these locations were once managed by INA. And when INA didn't find oil where it drilled, she gave up what she wanted, but the rest were wells and geothermal springs and saved 50% of the drilling costs that today's investor, a private investor, saved at the expense of Croatian citizens. What remains of Croatian citizens are imposed on renewable energy sources on electricity bills. And electricity bills in these two years, I'm talking about the reference two years, so in 2019 compared to 2018, the year increased in Croatia by 0.5%, and in 10 years since 2019, compared to 2009 by as much as 14.3%. For interesting reasons, in Hungary, ten-year bills for electricity to households decreased by 30%. I'll also look back on the Space Plan, which is what I asked the Secretary of State about confirming the conformity of the exploitation field, of course the geothermal fields with the Space Plan. Why do we insist as a Club of Representatives that such certificates be issued by local or regional self-government? For reasons that would mean final compliance with the law of the Republic of Croatia. Stop writing provisions in laws, in individual laws that do not comply with the parent law. Stop doing it on your own. If, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 129a, states that the unit of local self-government particularly performs the tasks of spatial and urban planning, if the Law on Spatial Planning states that the unit of local self-government is an executive and representative body, it shall take a decision on the design and adoption of a spatial and urban plan, as well as the plans of the county level made by the county authorities, i.e. the county representative bodies, then choose to transpose it into this Act. You cannot derivate the Law on the Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, and even less the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Not only do you violate the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia, but you take away citizens, who can only express their views on the representative bodies of the local unit, if we talk about spatial planning, you take these citizens to the right to have the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. You are only representatives of citizens who have to protect it, protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Start doing that, because I'm guessing another Krsh-Paden affair is waiting for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38401	Next, they're following individual debates. The first one is the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38402	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will continue where I stood in the debate on behalf of the club, and I am standing on the subject of Article 83, which is the issue of a useful permit for illegally built oil and mining facilities. I absolutely support it and I think it's only right and good, and that's that everything that's illegal in space made individual laws somewhere because it's related to construction has solved one law, and this is to solve other laws. Because we have the video we know what we have and it's just as good to bring it into the system. Because when you get into the system, then you can have it in the charging system and everything else. This provision of the law says that the applicable permits for such buildings and buildings and all other issues and can be issued within three years. It's good to know how many there are. I'm guessing there's some kind of knowledge that she has, but you have to tie it to something. Croatia's flight started on 21 June 2011. A doff was made one versus five thousand on which everything that is above the ground was made until then, recorded, and I think that provision should be tied to a particular map and recorded on the map that it has the basis for legalization and that you issue a useful permit for it. And it seems to me that it's a minimum of some sort of alignment related to the whole process so that it's done properly. The second topic I want in this individual debate is the recovery of space. We have had cancer of wounds in the area caused by the illegal and legal and illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials, which we have been struggling with for years. The same way that someone exploits hydrocarbons and it all stays together and stops exploiting what is the minimum of standards, which is that already through the basic exploitation solution, you make sure that after the exploitation, space is resuscitated. Nature, in part, does something on its own. Investors when they leave forget, and local self-government units have a terrible problem and can re-apply it to something else. You may have some other purpose for space, but surely you have to make sure that everything is done right together. I'm glad that in this law, if there's anything that makes me happy, that you have that provision that article 64, which is the former article 156, which is about that one platform that's missing, it's finally found, and that's the security coordination, and it's good that you have that in the provision. So that's when you change the law and see what your problem is and you build it into the law, so good thing you have it all together. But I'm going to go back to the topic of geothermal sources, geothermal waters, geothermals at all because that's the potential, that's the potential we have, the potential we need to take care of and the potential that has and the basis to be exploited in a certain way. There, in the last century, I saw for the first time a study of geothermal waters, i.e. the potential of geothermal waters in the city of Zagreb, take place live. It's in the rowing area, so near the HRT were three geothermal water wells. And then, in the last century, in another system, it was seen to be potential in the city of Zagreb. I don't need to tell you that the city of Zagreb also had a company called the Zagreb Terme, which always had an employee director who had a good salary and everything else with the idea of developing the Zagreb term. But in Zagreb, everything, every idea lasted at least 20, 30 years, and then it would untraceably disappear. So, what the city of Zagreb certainly has has the potential for geothermal sources, has the potential not to develop some tourist additional offers if it is decided but it can also use it in terms of energy. So not only in terms of the production of electricity for which it can be, but what is in the city of Zagreb and the interest it is to use in terms of heating. We have a large part of Zagreb that is bound to the heat and that is something that can be potential in the city of Zagreb. Of course, such potentials have always ended elsewhere and not in the interests of the citizens of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38403	Next individual debate, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38404	Here, individually, I would like to point out once again that we are not playing with our resources, mainly not on the Adriatic, where in the proposal for a spatial plan, we are once again noting, hopefully with a new point of 77a. Split-Dalmatia County that will not pass, that the government of the Republic of Croatia and all those inside will stop Boban's attempt and of course there is an Ante Sanader probably he as a mecena in the Split-Dalmatia County that will stop those 9 exploitation fields, i.e. research fields that are in the proposal of the Split-Dalmatia County plan. Because one move directly endangers strictly protected areas in the Adriatic where it is below each level if we and the tourist country and if we do not want these monsters, and platforms on our Adriatic. These are also protected areas, as I say the Apple Roll, where the nests are located and the growth site of the larger numbers of the most economically important species of fish in our area. The importance of the Apple Hall is reflected in the fact that there is about 23% of the total biomass of the most important species in the North and Central Adriatic. There is also the Swiss Geopark, the Helak Park, which in 2019 declared UNESCO a protected area. So I hope to stop that harmful plan that's meant for our Adriatic. It is minimally what I expect from the Croatian government and as a parliamentary representative and as a resident of Dalmatia. Once again, I would say that all the laws and directives we make here are not enough just to rewrite it. Directives of the European Union, but we need to adapt them within the framework of our mandate to protect our areas. I repeat again, Minister Coric has secured a sign by colleagues and colleagues to sign the survey on our Dinarids. He gave it to the INA for three years. So within 3 years if in the field of investigation, the drilling of Dinaridus of our junk comes to a find, then there's a 30-year concession, which means we're going to be looking at oil platforms and in our nature parks and on the most beautiful potential and territory where the biggest source of drinking water is our junk that we have to guard. Because that potential and that beauty itself, and here we have recently declared an example of the nature park Dinara. We have a nature park, we also have national parks which are bound here from Krka to the Adriatic Kornati, so up Plitvice Lakes. So we have an entire circle of protected areas so it would be good to stop these proposals in the plans that we have in the process. Mostly now in Split-Dalmatia County. That's what I expect. Of course, every law and every harmonisation must be consistent with what is in reality. The conductability of these laws. I wouldn't be talking about conduct right now. I just said a little while ago how many laws we passed a day. Four, five directives here when the work is plenary session. We rewrite, literally rewrite them, and in the implementation, it's zero or nothing, so I expect that in today's debate to highlight the importance of our environment, our resources and our potentials. I repeat again don't let Krš Padjana happen to us where we have damages for our people, where we have means first of all, we have money in our pockets on the issue of wind power plants, and so in other cases, like here, it means hydrocarbon research. That's what I think we should pay attention to. It is the duty of the Ministry of Environment and Obligations and all those paid by the people in essence. And we Parliamentarians who have been elected must guard and protect that part, so that tomorrow it will not be "where you were my cousin" so that there is no "where you were my cousin" here I repeat "prospers and sons" so that we do not know or not tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38405	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38406	I thank the chairman. Honored representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies and MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. The Republic of Croatia has a rich history of exploiting its mine treasure. We have the first gas field in the Republic of Croatia which was discovered in 1917, while the first oil field in the Republic of Croatia was discovered in 1941. The research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia is a historically important driver of economic growth. In this final version, I noticed that the Ministry accepted a series of proposals tabled on both committees and the plenary session itself, which is indeed evidence of constructive discussions here, and that should certainly be commended even by the proposals and by ruling and opposition. Here, the changes and additions bring us numerous newspapers which primarily guarantee greater transparency of oil and mining activities, or procedures themselves, through the involvement of the interested public in the processes. This will also allow better monitoring of environmental protection measures in the future, based on the involvement of the public and the interested public and the possible corrections in the procedures. It also regulates the possibility of overlapping more investors with licence holders in the same space for different purposes. So overlapping research spaces, exploiting fields for different purposes will now be possible as geothermal waters and hydrocarbons. In this way, the use of energy resources is actually optimised. A legal opportunity is being created to create a development society to promote development and use geothermal potential in order to increase renewable energy sources in total energy consumption. For example, if the unit of local self-government cannot implement a particular project alone and there is no interest or possibility of existing companies, a development company for this project may be established which meets all the positive legal rules both in terms of the establishment and the concession process. The proposed provisions also lay down the prohibition of mass hydraulic invoices as well as of risky and dangerous activities. I would also point out, and just about our goal under the Green Agenda, the notion of a permanent storage of CO2 with its use is introduced, and all to contribute to the globally accepted reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. And in conclusion, I consider this final proposal to be high-quality and comprehensive with clearer procedures and above all with greater transparency of the procedures themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38407	We have one replica, the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38408	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. You have highlighted the importance of accepting observations, so it seems to me that this is the only procedure that should be, so there are committees to discuss some professional matters, we have different laws, I read the laws differently, I read some of them that are secular, but some of the laws we want to get as many solutions as possible. Therefore, it should never be looked at to the end of which the proposal comes but should be seen to make the proposal more quality and to improve the interpretation of the law. The worst thing that happens to you when you're discussing it in the law is that you try to point out that the law would be better to implement, when it's being rejected for reasons just because you're an opposition then in six months or a year, the promoter comes with a request to amend the law, it would somehow seem to me that it's not good, that it would be much better if quality proposals were accepted and built in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38409	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38410	I thank the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash. I would certainly commend the constructive debate, and I commended it for reading here from this final law that the comments of the constructive proposals of all parties were respected, so in this law we are going towards a more constructive approach both towards investors and clearer and simpler administrative procedures and in the future implementing acts, and that is for every commendation as I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38411	The next individual debate by MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38412	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm going to use this individual debate for another word about space management. Since we can all believe that space is the most valuable resource of the Republic of Croatia, of course with people, with citizens, but since I consider the Republic of Croatia to be the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I don't have to mention it specifically, so space is the most important resource of the Republic of Croatia. According to the law, i.e. in this proposal, the law says that if the proposed exploitation field is not in line with the spatial plan then the carbons Agency shall initiate the procedure for amending the spatial plan and the unit of local or regional self-government shall initiate the procedure no later than 30 days. It remains unclear in this proposal in this final draft of the law whether this provision of a commanding nature or whether it is incorporated as an option because it is unclear whether the units of local or regional self-government must act according to the desire of the investor and enter into the spatial plan exactly what the investor is saying because we are talking about a final proposal or a law that will apply tomorrow. What happens if the holder refuses to initiate the procedure because he simply believes that the increase in the exploitation field is not in line with the spatial plan is not a priority and is not acceptable for that local self-government unit because the residents of the local self-government unit simply consider environmental protection to be more important and has a priority or advantage over the expansion of the energy field. What's the consequence? Dark Taritash, a colleague, discussed the possibility of financial damage to the investor, because we know that an investor who drives and initiates the creation or amendment of a spatial plan is very often, and this is able and financed by such a design, and now there is the possibility that such a design of a spatial plan or a change of the spatial plan will lead to a phase, and then the municipal or city council decides not to accept such an amendment. Who pays the investor for the damage? We're risking lawsuits from private entrepreneurs here for damages for not fulfilling their initiatives. For this reason, I think that this provision is either needed to be amended or it needs to be decoded, in fact, to explain whether it is commanding, but then we need to take away the right of units of local and regional self-government to develop spatial plans, we need to change even the procedure of adopting spatial plans, we need to change even the possibility of the public to influence spatial plans. So we have to tell citizens, cities and municipalities that they no longer have the right to operate their own space. What I would particularly like to mention is the potential damages that private investors would sue us for will ultimately not be paid by the state and let's stop expressing ourselves like that. They will pay the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because all the money that flows into the state budget is money from the pockets of anyone else down from the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, again with the burdens imposed on citizens by electricity bills, renewable energy sources, which are financed by private investors who earn huge profits, millions, more millions of kunas, and even billions of kunas impose additional pressure or compensation on investors to fail. It is totally unacceptable, it is not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and therefore it must not remain this vaguely defined in the law. Renewable energy sources paid for by citizens in electricity bills. The privateer has a solution to HERA for a price of 25 years, so count on how much individual earns on the back of citizens instead of making money from the Republic of Croatia, instead of having such exploitation fields, that is, these potentials are allocated to the state enterprise, the HEP that has all the data available, which can take over from the INA, or exploitation fields that INA once managed, can, have potential, have human resources and can protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, produce renewable energy sources and make it cheaper for its citizens, we give into the hands of private investors, allowing it to work with spatial plans, with the space of local and regional communities as it pleases. Let's not do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38413	Replica, the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38414	Thank you very much. So you pointed out the provision, if I'm not mistaken, Article 20 is new, and a former article is changing that about the relationship between the Space Plan and the relationship is actually changing these spatial plans. It is absolutely clear and there is no dilemma that the procedure is being initiated by the Decision on the construction, modification and addition of the Space Plan, that the Decision is being taken by representative bodies, regardless of whether they are the city, municipality, county or assembly of the City of Zagreb. And there's absolutely no dilemma about how the procedure is going and no one can know in advance how the procedure will end. Whether the process of change and supplementation will really end with the adoption of the Space Plan or not. The whole provision is written absolutely vaguely and deceives the investor, deceives the Agency in the end because it will enter into some procedure, without knowing the end, the only thing you can tie up, you can tie it to the end of the procedure and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38415	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38416	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I agree, and because of the spatial plan on changes to the Space Plan, which I mean changes in urban plans, but here we are expressing ourselves with the Space Plan, I cannot predict, so the outcomes of the adoption of the Space Plan cannot be predicted, it was a period during the election cycle or in the regular period of a term of a term of office. It cannot be predicted because it is adopted by the Council of exactly a number of members who may and may have an opinion on this Spatial Plan. Of course, some changes to the Space Plan unfortunately take place in Croatia in agreement with various investors, but let's not legalize it, let's not make it legal for our space, the space managed by residents of a particular municipality or city to be managed by a private investor and even worse, the ministry that is not responsible Is something consistent with this Space Plan or not. [[Intruder Ante Sanader: Time.]] Let's stop this practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38417	Final debate on behalf of the applicant. Dear Secretary of State Ivo Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for the debate that is as usual when it comes to hydrocarbons always and slightly wider than the carbon theme itself. I would just look back at a few things that seem important to me to mention, which is that the the thesis that we will stop with hydrocarbons in 2050 does not stand because in 2050 climate neutral Europe is foreseen. This means that the CO2 produced and absorbed in nature will stop the additional CO2 emissions and it will be the death line. This does not mean that there will be no more hydrocarbons at the time, but simply that the full functioning of energy and other life will be climatic, theoretically they can still be spent by hydrocarbons, and somewhere CO2 may be deeply cared for and the results will be zero. So, now we're going to prejudge that we're going to stop it, we're going to set ourselves up in 2050 as a death line, or as a phase out, I don't think it's standing, it's not done by any state, neither are we. It is clear that if the European Union adopts certain rules, certain regulations, certain directives that will go in that direction, it will probably also make some exit scenario for Member States, and how it would potentially damage someone and damage them if it did. So, I don't think that's the time for that right now. What is important to mention, regardless of what we as a state, and I believe here less, more everyone in the Parliament and in Croatia has defined for the green transition and that we really really want it, I did not experience it from anyone to think that he didn't want it, but we have to say one fact that our production was reduced to 691 thousand tons of oil and 888 thousand feet of cubic gas in the last year, which is 21.94% of our needs and 39.10, count it as Covid years. It means that it is much less in case tourism is returned to the 2019 frameworks. So we as a country must be aware, however, that it is strategically important that one part of these energys, even if they were hydrocarbons, have to be produced in the country and that the reserves that really came to us at 6 million tons, when it comes to oil and 7 billion cubic metres of gas, should at least be maintained on this dying life, because simply a country that would have completely run out of hydrocarbons, and let's say it was Croatia that had, not so long ago, gas surplus, and it produced oil in quite large quantities for years, I think that country has to do it quite well, because there are still some possibilities. We're not going to talk about the GNI about reducing imports, increasing domestic production on the new way tomorrow's exploitation fees are charged, you know that so far we have 10% in all existing contracts, and these 12 contracts signed in the event of the discovery they go far, far above 10% and 40, 50, 60% means that the local community and the state budget would certainly have any of that benefits. To talk about betrayal and high treason really are a little too heavy words in a way that now in some vacuum between compliance with a directive within the carbons Agency that issued concessions there have been some terribly major disturbances in the sense that some enemies have received these concessions, it is deplaced to speak. We simply have neat competitions that were conducted there and competences that were in all competitions large and in no competition were under three bidders and it was serious, and somewhere five, six and not all competed or succeeded because we must finally be aware that the tender for geotherms is not a joke. Simply for one who thinks to build a geothermal power plant, he must be aware that eventually, by megawatt installed power, he will invest 48 million kuna. One who thinks to make a solar power plant larger than 3 MW should invest five million kunas, and one who thinks to make a wind power plant larger than 10 MW he must invest 9.5 million kuna, now you realize how much this huge difference between investments in geothermal from investments in solar and wind power plants and therefore these feed-in tariffs that were quite large, the premium model will be clearly less worn out, but he always has to make sure that this enterprise ultimately pays off. I would only agree with the finding that we now make sure in the premium model that this enterprise has some kind of return to a maximum of 5.6%, not much bigger than it used to be. But we can't talk about it here right now, it was done 12, 13 years ago, but it was done then in that time probably in good faith that something would be good for it, but without feed-in tariffs there would be no renewable sources. I would pray once again for the Croatian public not to be laminate with those billions that we take from Croatian citizens and give to some foreigners and keep these thesis here, and I just don't like to hear it because I often repeat such data to people, you might actually believe that this is about some kidnapping. So it is a fee for renewable notes that is at EU level we are a country that has one of the smaller fees for renewable sources that go per kilowatt in some European countries that we like to compare with such as Germany, there is 300, 400% of these fees are higher and this fee is clearly used to finance these contractual contracts, on which a large number of Croatian companies are founded in Croatia, which pay Croatian taxes, operate according to Croatian laws, is sold to HROTE, HROTE pays for them. So let's not talk about some foreigners, if one of these companies is a foreigner, he's quite the business type that Mr. Bulj often likes to say is a political Croat then we can say that these companies are political Croatian companies, regardless of what the owners of these companies are foreigners or other citizens from other non-Croatian countries. So as far as that goes, you'd have to say it in the end, and not that it doesn't matter, it's really important on the topic of the spatial plan. So the idea of putting these provisions into this law is exactly the opposite of what I've now had the chance to hear here, means to prevent potential damages and misunderstandings with future investors. So we saw the release of concessions for the research space, research in the research space, finding a certain discovery and then the introduction of a spatial plan of the exploitation field began to be a problem because in the very event of that, we are now in a situation where the counties and municipalities are creating a problem here. It is our idea that, on the basis of the seismic and other data we have, there are potential areas where certain finds can be expected and that we enter these areas into a spatial plan provided that local self-government agrees with this. We didn't say in law that local self-government had to do it, we just said and asked it to be put on the agenda, let's say by law, and that doesn't mean that local self-government when it puts that decision on the agenda in 30 days. We can't break out the local self-government right to come up with a spatial plan because we broke the Constitution and violated the elemental logic of all of us who know something about local self-government, and we write that law. So the idea was and remained, and that's why the law left it, that when we decide to launch a competition somewhere, to start the process, to try to change the spatial plans, and we have changed spatial plans, and then we go to the competition, that as a serious and responsible state in agreement with local self-government if there is, if there is no thanks to God, then we can't just put that area into concession if the local self-government at the start said no. We can't do that because it's simply not possible, so let's just assume that local self-government will find some kind of interest in it. Why? Because you have 400 kuna per square kilometre per year, because in case you find a certain finding tomorrow, you have from that, this, the fee that goes after the exploitation, we've raised the percentage in favour of local self-government to almost 50%. On the basis of this Law, which has now been amended for the third time, more than 33 million kuna has been paid to the county and cities so far, no more liters of officially no oil or cubic gas have been found officially, that it has been verified e. And clearly, this has happened in what municipalities? In those municipalities and counties where the counties changed the Spatial Plan, clearly in accordance with the Law, existing regulations, environmental and other standards and made it possible for themselves to happen. But we don't want the situation from Vukovar-Srijem County to happen where we have a contract from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and a company that has properly launched the entire research and everything else, and when we came to the situation that needs to change the Space Plan then we got hit by deadlines, then there was, not to say obstructions, but perhaps some misunderstanding and then called you ambassadors, the pressure on the Ministry, something on the project. We don't want to be in this situation anymore, no matter how useful this situation is for that own community that gets revenue from it, but let's just say it didn't. So we want this provision to prevent these situations and to be clear that there is a competition if the thing in the space-plan sense is the one on the ground, if it is not there, there will be no competition, thank God and there will always be municipalities and cities and counties who will want to go out to meet the Agency, or themselves. Now, that's the whole idea, and here's what I think if you've been able to understand what we're proposing, I think I've been pretty clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38419	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, three replicas, excuse me. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Tomasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38420	Thank you. Well, Mr Miletic, you mentioned that the climate neutral European Union and Croatia by 2050 does not mean that there will be no production of fossil fuels, right? So then you said the keyword one thing, maybe it'll print carbon into the ground. Exactly the key word is perhaps, as you know because Kerber and Kepcher's storage technology are quite experimental and we can't go bussiness as usuall and hope that then all these shows will somehow be printed into the ground or in some other way, meaning we don't broadcast further into the atmosphere. So from that perspective, what we asked for and what was our amendment not to let the permits last indefinitely or for 30 years, and to move on with new permits, but to do a revision by 2040 and then to see what it was from the regulation of the European Union on the watch, what are the options and afterwards, instead of being sued by these investors because of the regulatory European Union, we may have had to stop using hydrocarbons. So it seems reasonable to us and then we can do a review in 2040 instead of being trapped, because we don't know The future. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38421	Thank you. The reply of the respected Secretary of State, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38422	Thank you. Of course I said that if we're closed, that we're going to do something to be neutral, and what you're proposing makes sense in itself, that we're Norway and that the model of concessioning in Croatia is, like, in Norway, where they pay for everything, research and then give a concession, they're absolute masters and deadlines and everything else. We are Croatia, which has no money for drilling, research. We leave everything to the risk of investors, investors succeed or fail, it's all his risk. Logically, in all the world of oil business and everywhere in the world, such types of business and such risk has been projected for 30 years. For 30 years, strategies have been working, it's been working for 30 years, it's more, it's less from the oil business and it's been 30 years, and we can hardly do it, because if we were to go with such a contest, the interest in such a contest would be almost nothing. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38423	Thank you. The next replica honours MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38424	Dear Secretary of State, you said my words were difficult when I said that treason is a non-transparent surrender of Croatian energy resources to individuals or private companies. I note this is about private companies and those who have just established a company and have no employees. It was my personal opinion, and as such I explicitly pointed it out. So that's not a difficult word, I have according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliament a very prominent right to say my opinion. You're telling me to lamentate when I mention billions. If company revenues are 90 million a year, so you have a concession at 10, 12, 25 years, then it's a total of billions. I was talking about that billion, it's not lamentation. What I'd like to say about the two-year interspace, if it's such a serious contest, so why wait two years. Just because you're all at peace, to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, I call upon the competent authorities to this basis of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is the State's Attorney's Office to investigate what happened in two years, and whether the private investor used insufficient law and provided itself with a non-existent benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38425	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38426	Absolutely let everything be explored, because all these contracts are anyway, all these procedures are given neatly on the report and on the DORH's obvious, no contract is made if they are not allowed to look at it. So as far as we're concerned, we don't have any doubts. And there's no such thing as intransparentity. Everything about the environment was also transparent for the existing Croatian regulation in terms of the media and everything else, because it is simply the Law on, when it comes to environmental protection clear and transparent in that part, here we are further, all possible procedures and all possible consent, various, various other bodies required by this Directive to put and publicly publish. And I don't see any problem here that now there's been some terrible intransparency, but we clearly support the Directive and we don't mind that it's as we predicted it would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38427	Thank you very much. Dear MP Ahmetovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38428	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure for the reasons that the State Secretary demeans me as a representative, as well as all MPs and deputies present here because he says that there was no transparency or that everything was transparent. Well, the European Commission itself has told you that you need to comply with the law because of non-transparentity. So, the reason is transparency and public participation. So it was non-transparent for two years. You've had two months. For two years, you've been law-abiding non-transparently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38429	Okay. It's clear that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Please don't go that way. There are replicas, there is a possibility of individual speech, on behalf of the club etc. This is ugly and creates an ugly picture in public. Dear Representative Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38430	Thank you very much. We listened to your answer to some of our discussions, but we did not hear a fellow Bulj as in the name of the club and he talked for almost 15 minutes individually about that he had already suggested or noticed that there were possible platforms on Dinara, and in national parks. You are from the island of Hvar, that are already near there and on Hvar, Lastovo. He expanded it, etc. We from the north don't know what's going on in Dalmatia, but it's just for the citizens who are looking at this to say if by the local elections there will be these platforms... I pointed out four years ago, too, so nothing happened. [[You don't understand.]] Is it possible in the next 5, 10 years that this happens in our sea and what happens in general with these processes that he keeps talking about drilling Dinara, drilling the Adriatic, etc. To clear this up because it burdens us here in Parliament? And when a man listens to him, he can think he's really drilling all over Croatia, and we have no knowledge. Probably you in the ministry know exactly what's going on in these places to tell us both to the public what's going on that man isn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38431	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38432	Thank you. The southernmost field under concession where seismic research itself is conducted is Lika. It's the southernmost, and it's nothing. There is no competition, nor is it in sight, nor will there be. And that's what INA does in Face. So since Mr. Bully is obviously not fond of INA, I suggest that he and I suggest that INA be no longer a sponsor of Alka, but when it's such an enemy enterprise, it might not be bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38433	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now moving to the next point, which is: The proposal for a candidate for the Ombudsman is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Article 10 is replaced by the following: Law on the Ombudsman and Article 60 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Does the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article 10(3), be composed of colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Ombudsman at its 12th session, held on 2 March and 5 March this year, laid down a proposal for a candidate for the Ombudsman and proposed the next candidates for the election. These are: Sanda Jančić and Tena Simonović Einwalter. So, according to the Law on the Ombudsman, we are obliged to propose to the Croatian Assembly at least 2 candidates and we do so. The Croatian Assembly shall be based on the provisions of this Article 10(2). The Advocate General Act published a public invitation to propose a candidate. The call was published on the Croatian Assembly's website and in the National Journals. The deadline for the application was 30 days from the day of publication of that public call, and the last day for the application was February 19th. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, held at the 11th session on 23 February, found that 5 candidates arrived at a public invitation to propose a candidate for the Ombudsman during this period and one application was found to be unjust because the necessary documentation was not attached. So, the 4 bids have been established by the citizens, and that is the candidacys submitted by Marko Bonifačić, Sandra Jancic, Neven Šimac, Tena Simonović Einwalter. Given that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system lays down a proposal of at least 2 candidates, with a preliminary opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities, the Committee on the Constitution and the political system, by letter dated 23 February, addressed to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities for the purpose of giving the above-mentioned opinion. On 2 March, the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Human Rights held a joint session inviting all candidates to talk and during the talks, members of both committees asked candidates questions on the basis of which they gained a certain impression of candidates as professionals and persons. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System had the previous opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which pointed out that all candidates met the conditions for selecting the Ombudsman, but gave priority to the candidate Teni Simonović Einwalter, and at its session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system held on 5 March, a secret vote was held on the proposed candidates and, after a secret vote on candidates for the Ombudsman, the Committee found that all the members present had submitted ballots and a proposal for the Advocate General had already been made, as I had already said, by Sandra Jančić and Tena Šimonović Einwalter, and on the basis of the provisions of Article 10(3). Therefore, the Law on the Prussian Attorney-General gives the Committee a proposal for these candidates to vote for the Croatian Assembly of the Police Advocates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38455	Thank you very much. Stay a moment because we have one replica. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38456	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Bosnjakovic, here you are, since you were also the Minister of Justice rapporteur of the board of directors. I'd like you to clear up a few things for me. Namely, it is indisputable that the prescribed procedure has been respected here, the candidates delivered their life records, board members asked them certain questions, and on the basis of the answers they received, they gained their own impression of the quality of individual candidates. However, we MPs cannot get that impression because we have no knowledge of any questions that have been asked or answers that have been given, so I ask you as a person who has participated in these processes if you can explain to me what you are actually expecting from the new Ombudsman, in which you think they are not, and if you do not think that the role of the attorney general has expired, and in general how you see the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Ombudsman in the future, given the fact that we have not discussed the three reports submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38457	Thank you very much. The Honorable Committee Chairman Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38458	Thank you very much, dear colleague Oreshkovic. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that this job, this conversation with the candidates, is being held by members of the board. So here the members and the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities held that conversation. They all got a certain impression and then the vote identified the number of candidates. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure are not the only cases where it gives a particular role to the committee in relation to all other representatives. All MPs could actually be present at that session, because at the committee meeting they must not only be members of the board, but the rest of them can, therefore, be representatives of the Assembly. As for the work of the Ombudsman, we will have the opportunity to discuss in this House her report and all that is stated in that report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38459	Thank you very much. I thank the board president. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Croatian Governors' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Next is the Club of Representatives of the Most on behalf of which the respected representative Nino Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38460	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. At a time of general stagnation, crisis, setbacks, job losses, budget cuts at all levels, it is nice to hear that there are some sectors that are constantly progressing. In fact, the Attorney General is the fastest growing industry in Croatia. The Human Rights Attorney's Office's budget has been growing dizzy for years, about a rhythm of half a million kuna a year. Thus, in 2008, the budget of that office was 7 million kuna and in 2018, already 12 million kuna, 2019. 12 and a half of 2020 already nearly 13 million kunas. This growth is also accompanied by the growth of the number of employees. If we look at the reports we hope to finally discuss soon in the Assembly, which are reports that we have not yet received in the Assembly for 2018, 2019 and 2020, the status of employees was as follows: in 2018, 49 people worked in that office together. In 2019, the number rises to 52 and 2020. 53 people. Bulj, a colleague, quoted "Prosecutors and Sons" as saying in the previous debate, so I'm going to be attached to him and say 53 schaps. Lipa Company would say American Jo in "Beggings and Sons", Lipa Company 53. It will need to be renamed soon by the Ombudsman's Office for Human Rights in the holding of human rights with which we would then also have a holding for gender equality and holding for children's rights. I'll exempt as an honorary exception from the Department of Rights of Persons with Disabilities whose report we've supported. In Croatia, the Ombudsman is the only institution prescribed by the Constitution. Later in 2003 and the eighth law was added to special care for children, persons with disabilities and gender equality. All of this needs to be united under one human rights defendership with the relevant under the offices, and the assessment is that they would work equally effectively with one quarter of the employees. No one can convince me, for example, that 13 lawyers, for example, instead of 52 people, could not do all the work presented to us in a report that is a 200-page brochure. In addition to the unification and reduction of these mastodon offices with enormous costs, it is necessary to shorten the time limit on which the Ombudsman is elected. I understand whether it's five years instead of eight. It is also necessary to determine that the Parliament is elected by a two-thirds majority. This would require a broader consensus, and we can assume that, thanks to this broader consensus, we would choose an ideologically unscathed person who will deal with his work, not with politics, ideological doctoring and promoting an agenda for which he has no legitimacy. In the Parliament, the public was at the same time having a debate about the legality of the lawyer's election to leave. It was questionable whether she had legally prescribed 15 years of training in the profession at all? She didn't do enough of what she had to do. We will talk about this in particular when, if finally, the 2020 report, which was a year of severe restrictions and violations of human rights, comes into play in the situation of the Coronus crisis. But she was therefore coming into conflict with Croatian institutions, for example, with the police, so police director Nikola Milina, a few years ago, was forced to send a letter to the Police Attorney Lori Vidovic, who said that the nine-year-old Afghan on whom she provided the documentation was accompanied by her father, and to quote: "The police have never deported a child without an escort, but have done so by respecting all the legal provisions that are applicable in this case." It was not the only time that the Ombudsman had unfounded muddyed the Croatian police and implemented a policy to encourage illegal migration and to reciprocate the crime of illegal and violent crossing the state border. We have one case, and I can discuss it in an individual debate where the Attorney General published some things on her web page, so the DORH also reacted about it, possibly later. The Croatian attorney-general was publicly muddy a few years ago and threatened to sue Croatia's Big Brother, as she says, quotes: "International organisations dealing with human rights monitoring in Croatia, including the Committees and Subcommittees, the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Tortrum". Because she was denied the possibility of unannounced and direct insight into police activity and data because she was disturbed by the information that police were making violent deterrents, i.e. At the very least, the defense limit uses bats. The Ombudsman, Lora Vidovic, whose successor we will soon choose, acted also as a particular ideological actor and clearly took sides when holding a referendum on marriage in 2013. When the referendum was opposed, although it had no basis for this in the Constitution, the laws of the Republic of Croatia or internationally accepted Conventions. The 2016 report did not pass in the Assembly. Let's see what the Law on the Ombudsman says, in Article 2. defines this: The Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. This should be done and reported regularly to the Croatian Parliament. Article 16(3) states: The Ombudsman shall submit the Annual Report no later than the end of the first quarter for the previous calendar year. Such a large holding for human rights must somehow justify its existence and business in these gauges. Convince those who pay them, which are citizens of the Republic of Croatia that there is a market, a wrong picture is being created that there is a huge violation of human rights in Croatia, but that is not the case. The lawyer has been a parapolitical figure in many ways, and that is one of the reasons, I will repeat, why I believe that in the future it should be voted by a two-thirds majority in the Parliament, not that a party that has a majority of its own free will set up that figure, which then acts as a parapolitical actor for 8 years. We're going to do a lot of things more detail when the debate comes on the upcoming report for the past three years, but just for the illustration. In the 2018 report, the Advocate General points out that the complaints of migrants and OCD are still coming to us, which point not only to a difficult approach to international protection but also to police violence against migrants in irregular border crossing. Imagine. The police are using force against those who are illegally crossing the border. I guess you should convince them. Verbal. In the recommendations in the 2018 Report, which I have looked at, the rights of the national minority Ombudsman would limit sovereignty to Croatian citizens, more specifically the right to refer to the referendum, and recommend, recommendation 20, to the Ministry of Administration to draft a referendum law which will exclude human rights issues from these types of decisions, including the rights of national minorities. So the Attorney General, it turns out that the Attorney General means the one who defends the regiment's right to create laws himself in the country he lives in. There are a lot of other things and there will be later opportunities in the individual debate and possibly in the replicas, Report 2020 is particularly, I would say, embarrassing. We'll discuss it here in detail. Let's say the Ombudsman is obsessively in the greeting "For Home Ready", on the trail of those whom Vlado Gotovina called exorcists of Ustasha spirit in Croatia in time, and is very generally and superficially talking about Corona discrimination and serious violations of human rights. In the end, I can only express my dissatisfaction with the fact that more people, and in Croatia we certainly have a lot of excellent, experienced lawyers sensitized for human rights, did not report to the competition. We had two recreational retirement applications and two that were past the Committee and we now have before us. That's too small. I wonder if the general opinion is such that it has already been decided in advance who will become the new Attorney General, so there's no point in running. Whoever is elected, I hope that they will not continue the practice of their predecessor, I hope that the holding for human rights will at least no longer grow, further burden the budget, and if we get most of the Parliament, one day, we will certainly bring all four offices together and reduce the number of employees and the cost of that office, to an appropriate range of work it is carrying out. And finally, I hope that the new Advocate General will not act as a parapolitical figure, that he will not defile the Croatian state and its institutions on a flat-rate basis, that he will not push the particular ideological agenda and unbearably deliver as its predecessor, but rather deal with the work provided for by the Law on the Ombudsman. All these things can be said to you and to her in one ear, as if nothing had happened to her, for the firm majority will make a decision anyway, so let her be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38461	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives, will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38462	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A little over 8 years ago, more precisely in the 2nd month 2013 in the Croatian Parliament, it was debated and voted on the election of the Advocate General. The situation was similar to today's, i.e. two candidates, Lora Vidovic and Ivana Goranic, and Lora Vidovic was almost unanimously elected. I hope that today's debate with regard to the 2013 issue will be somewhat different, not so perilous, so calm and rational that these two high-quality candidates deserve it and certainly a wider public who is interested in selecting a civil defender or attorney. The ombudsman's duty, i.e. the ombudsman's attorney-general, is one of the fundamental democratic values guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The duty of the powers of the Assembly to promote and protect human rights established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia is an extremely important perspective for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is often one of the only state institutions in which citizens speak with full confidence and are heard, and which unbiasedly and critically observes every segment of state and society, making sure that no one feels less valuable. All of this I have experienced as a representative of the Serb community which is now, I dare say with former occupier Loro Vidovic and members of her team had more than a correct relationship. The communication was constant, dynamic and full of understanding, and has always sought to find the right solution for the common forces. As the provisions of the positive regulations of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System provide us with the names of the two candidates Mrs. Sandra Hančić and Tena Simonović Einwalter, one of whom will replace Laura. I have had opportunities as a member of the Committee on Human Rights to monitor the presentation, i.e. the presentation of our candidates, and for me it has been a useful experience for some not to work, and in relation to some who have been an example of how you should actually present yourself and your work. I believe that both candidates are of quality, their current work experience and life experience will help in the work on the protection of human and minority rights. Sandra Hančić, former municipal judge and then the county court in Bjelovar, and for the last 8 years with a move to Zagreb, has been working as a lawyer specialising in criminal law with human rights empathy in a wide range of people deprived of freedoms and those with mental disorders. It's something that's left for me as a listener about the lady. As I have already said in my work so far, I have had positive experience with the current occupier and her team, which, as her closest associate, was certainly the second candidate of the former vehicular attorney, Ms. Tena Simunović Einwalter. Prior to that deputy's duties, she was a consultant to the occupancy counsellor, and co-ordinator for the area of discrimination in the Ombudsman's Office. So her experience at the Attorney General's office is long-term, and her working environment is more than familiar. As an expert in combating discrimination, she has been appointed representative of the Republic of Croatia in the European Commission against racism and intolerance of the Council of Europe, and currently in the second two-year term she is chaired by the Executive Board of the European Network of Discrimination Bodies and the Promotion of Equality after 2019. Re-arranged to this post. My first association with Mrs. Šimonović Einwalter also concerns my earlier engagement because it has devoted itself to addressing the problem of achieving the right to bilingualism in the environments where legal conditions are met as well as the problem of national structure and school boards, and minority education. Also because of its long-standing activities in the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities, I noticed that the committee that I belong to for human rights gave priority to Mrs. Tenni. Since the attorney general has put a ladder high in her work, her successor will not be a bit easy, and we, as a society of those heirs, have high expectations. The unbiased and realistic reports submitted by the Ombudsman to the Croatian Assembly make it clear that certain parts of society continue to expose discrimination, and that the new attorney general will have to be severely affected by discrimination in order to one day say that we are more equal and fairer society. Either way, I'd like to get a new attorney's office to do a lot of good work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38463	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Nadj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Croatian legal system was introduced to the Croatian Ombudsman by the Constitution of the Republic of 1990, which speaks sufficiently of the constitutionally established role of the Ombudsman as the authority of the Croatian Parliament, the role of promoting and protecting human rights and freedoms. According to Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the Advocate General of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, the laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. Any person may appeal to the Advocate General if he considers that the illegal or irregular work of the national authorities, local and regional (regional) authorities and bodies with public authority are at risk or in violation of his constitutional or legal rights. The Croatian Assembly is elected by the Advocate General in time of 8 years. The Attorney General is independent and independent in his work. In accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the Public Ombudsman is the Advocate General of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion of the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, the law and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia and, under Article 2 of that Article, by the Advocate General shall carry out other tasks of certain specific laws. According to Article 10 of the Law, it is prescribed that the Croatian Assembly should be elected by the Advocate General at the time of 10 years, with the possibility of re-election and no later than 6 months before the end of the term of office of the Advocate General, or no later than 30 days after the end of office for other reasons, the Croatian Parliament announced a public invitation to propose a candidate for the Ombudsman. Paragraph 3 of that Article provides that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, with the opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament, shall establish a proposal for at least two candidates for the Ombudsman on the basis of applications received from a public call, and shall refer it to the Croatian Assembly. According to Article 11. The Law on the Ombudsman may be chosen by a person who fulfils the following conditions: Croatian citizenship, residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, completed integrated in front of a graduate and graduate university study of legal profession, at least 15 years of experience in the profession, a prominent expert who enjoys the reputation of a person of high moral principles, as well as protectors and promoters of human rights and freedoms, or the rule of law which is not condemned and who is not subject to criminal proceedings for crimes for which the proceedings are initiated under official duty and who is not a member of a political party. The current lawyer, Lora Vidovic, took office on 1 March 2013, means that she was appointed by the Croatian Parliament as a new authority for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedom to the term of office of eight years. The Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms in its 2019 Report pointed out that the objective of raising and the level of respect for human rights and freedoms in Croatia, and the achievement of citizens' equality, a whole series of social changes, is a long-standing process that requires the quality of cooperation of all stakeholders, and the priority of human rights in the thinking of public policies. This is the way towards the creation of a society where institutions will gain a high degree of trust by their transparent and effective work, in which no one will be left alone for their vulnerability by ensuring a decent life, and which public discourse will be constructive, inclusive and deprived of impatience. However, neither the State's Attorney General's Report for 2018 nor 2019 or 2020, even though it is included, means these two reports are first on the agenda of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, so the sixth session of the Croatian Parliament is still not included in the debate at the plenary session. The annual report by the attorney general shall be submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the end of the first quarter for the previous year. It is expected that the Croatian Parliament will discuss the annual report by the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman within a short period of time from the delivery of the report, i.e. in the current year's report for the previous year to discuss the current proposals for measures to promote and protect human rights and freedoms. Therefore, it is incomprehensible to ignore the ruling views of the debate on the reports of the Ombudsman, particularly in the light of this crisis caused by the covid 19 pandemic and the earthquake in Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina County. At the SDP club, we believe that between two candidates and two candidates for the occupier, i.e. the Ombudsman, during the talks at the joint session of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities, only two candidates were pointed out by their knowledge of the role of the ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman in promoting and protecting human rights and freedoms, i.e. the rule of law, i.e.... a former deputy attorney general with a law degree and a postgraduate study at Oxford and the Faculty of Political Sciences with more than 16 years of training and lawyer Sanda Hančić, an independent lawyer with a passed judicial exam, a former judge with a 24-year internship in the profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the SDP Club is closer to candidate Tena Simonović Einwalter, although, of course, every member of the SDP club will vote in secret votes at their own free will. From her biography, and especially during the answers to the questions of the members of both committees, we received confirmation that she knows the constitutional and legal role of the institution of the Ombudsman as the authority's attorney for the Croatian Parliament on the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms and the Central Body for the control of discrimination. She is also familiar with the important role of the attorney general who must act proactively and preventively as a national mechanism for the protection of persons deprived of liberty. The new jurisdiction of the Advocate General for the external reporting of irregularities in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, etc. The whistler of July 2019 is not unknown to her, she is not only known as the legal norm but also activities in the implementation of the protection of the applicant for irregularities from the authority of the attorney general. It is not negligible that Ms. Tena Šimonović Einwalter has institutional memory and knows the organisational structure of the Office of the Attorney General, and can continue to implement the projects launched without some empty walk to know them. Today, in this pandemic crisis, the crisis caused by an earthquake when many citizens do not have a roof over their heads or are forced to live in inadequate, sometimes dangerous housing facilities, some of which can't be considered even housing, when human rights are significantly threatened only to health, the work of social security is important to elect a public defender, or a lawyer who will know how to deal with the fight against various types of discrimination, violations of freedom and rights that will be determined to protect the most vulnerable in order to ensure the constitutional commitment of the Republic as a social state. Therefore, the SDP club believes that we must choose a candidate who will be able to pro-actively engage in achieving the vision of the Ombudsman, that the Republic of Croatia should be a society in which human rights are respected, promoted and protected, in which the state administration is fair, efficient and accessible and each individual has equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38465	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Homeland Movement, and a respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38466	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, therefore, for some reason in the election process of the attorney general, and the media also noticed that we had not received a full life record, nor had we Assembly representatives maintained the presentation of candidates, but had only shorted résumés from which some important data were missing. There is nothing left for us but to suspect transparency or family or political networking of certain stakeholders. It is extremely important to note that scientists, demographers, politologists, economists in Croatia but also in general warn that customerelism and corruption affect the slowdown of society, to promote similarity and political networking, not excellence and competence ultimately affecting highly educated young people who therefore emigrate to democratic states of Western democracies where their qualifications are valued, not family or political relations are valued. However, our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has repeatedly claimed that young people do not emigrate because of corruption and nepotism. It is interesting that the father of one of the candidates for the late 1990s prosecutor was Deputy Foreign Minister, and his office was headed by today's Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. We also learn that he has just played a major role in finding and bringing Plenkovic to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mrs. Shimonovic's resume of one of the candidates perfectly fits into the global agenda and their interpretation of human rights. The question is, how did she get the support of both HDZ and SDP and so can we. Is it because they might be sharing the same light? She co-operated with the Peace Studies Centre, whose champions were now the backbone of the left-green parliamentary bloc. This is about the ideologies of human rights or the achievement of monopoly on these issues, but also the imposition of a world-wide mirror that actually does not tolerate different opinions. Since the activities of the Ombudsman include activities in the field of protection of human rights, then activities in the area of the fight against discrimination with an extremely important national preventive mechanism, with the necessary protection of applicants of irregularities, so we are talking about an entire spectrum of activities aimed at protecting the fundamental constitutional rights of our citizens and citizens. In everyday life, situations in which citizens are not inclined to report violations of human rights and discrimination due to mistrust in institutions, then acceptance as a common pattern of behaviour, fear of victimisation and others, therefore the need as stated by the current attorney general in his report on work for 2020 is to strengthen preventive work aimed at combating all forms of intolerance and to strengthen efforts and activities aimed at protecting equality in particular in crisis situations. The content and form of such activities should be adapted to the needs, opportunities and social circumstances of individual vulnerable groups, and bringing this topic closer to citizens would help education on the concept of discrimination and available protection mechanisms and strengthen media literacy. At national level, promoting equality as a fundamental value would certainly contribute to the adoption of a national plan for the protection and promotion of human rights and the prevention of discrimination for the period from 2021 to 2027 and accompanying documents, i.e. an action plan for the protection and promotion of human rights and an action plan for the fight against discrimination from 2021 to 2023 and a national anti-discrimination plan that has expired, which I recall further in 2019. The importance of the role of the Ombudsman's institute can be summed up through individual recommendations, such as one which has been addressed by the attorney general to the leaders of the local self-government units following complaints from citizens from their territory. Thus, the Ombudsman’s mother - in - law concluded the lack of reliable medically correct water could endanger the fundamental human rights to life and health guaranteed by the constitution, but also affect the emigration of the population. It is therefore necessary to work continuously to restore and build a public supply network where economic profitability should not be a key criterion. So, when the mayors and mayors fail in their posts, it's good to offer them to work and through the Office of the General's Attorney General. Recently, some EU Member States have strengthened or intend to take action in connection with the scope of the activities of civil society and civil society itself. In Croatia, the government intends to adopt a national plan to improve the system of legal, financial and institutional support for the activities of civil society organisations. In the context of the election of a new person headed by the Ombudsman's Office, it is also important to state the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has never adopted a National Strategy to create an incentive environment for the development of civil society for the period 2017 to 2022, a key document for the planning and programming of funding from the European Social Fund. It is also rare to mention the ineffectiveness of public institutions and bodies responsible for the European funds in Croatia, which bear responsibility for the excessive administrative burden of Croatian civil society which leads not only to its financial instability but also discourages its role as a factor in social cohesion and active citizenship. In addition, narrowing down the scope of civil society in Croatia is carried out through financial mechanisms, primarily through inadequate administration of European funds with examples of unfavourable interpretation of de minimis support. This strengthens the mistrust and perception of the lack of openness of EU institutions because such a public administration represents institutions on national soil. All of these should be topics which must be addressed in addition to the above. The recommendations of the so far-called Advocate General for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities to continuously inform citizens about the prohibition of discrimination and protection mechanisms and to speed up activities in the adoption of the National Plan for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and Discrimination of Discrimination from 2021 to 2027 and the accompanying Action Plan for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights as well as the Action Plan for the Prevention of Discrimination from 2021 to 2023, then to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to encourage the fight of all forms of intolerance by investing in education, professional advice and education, public campaigns and strengthening of media literacy can only be clearly and unequivocally supported. Since the two women entered a narrow round of elections, let's hope that the newly-elected Ombudsman will also implement a broad set of measures to reduce inequalities in society and improve human rights. The inequalities that are unfortunately present in our society. We also hope that close family relations with the prime minister will not affect the work of the office. We sincerely hope, because hope still dies last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38467	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the green-left bloc on behalf of which Rada Boric, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38468	My colleagues and colleagues, the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, proposed a meeting to elect two candidates, Tena Šimonović Einwalter, the current deputy attorney general and Sandra Hancic, an independent lawyer. What we've heard and perhaps heard here, with regrets that we're discussing the election of a new staff this time, the D.A.'s attorney, that unfortunately we haven't discussed the reports before. In that sad way because we saw and saw according to what's in the report for '18. and '19. Which are proposed to us here and will likely come to order, how important it is precisely that the attorney general and the institution of the defense attorney or the staff attorney in such a way that, apart from the protection of the notifiers of all irregularities, the government has also taken on the promotion and protection of human rights as you have seen in front of the reports and what the Government has taken on. different resolution ministries to advance on exactly these complaints better protection of human rights. Of the two, here we could hear the sad and unusual voices on the one hand about the fact that the former occupier was a parapolitical figure from, we're part of the other representing again. Representatives heard that, of course, different political relations are mentioned, so again, whether we can count on them to be elected to certain places politically or not to say parapolitically. Here it concerns in the first example that it has been forgotten, and it has been tied to the safety of Croatia and that it has objected to the former occupier of the occupier was her relationship with the rights of migrants and illegal migrants, and the fellow who spoke here has forgotten, so I just remind you that it is, for example, an example. In 19th, the Attorney General's Office handled a total of over 5,000 cases, of which 75% referred to individual complaints by citizens. So, according to their rights violations. So here to represent the work of the attorney general as a parapolitical figure so that it may not be obtained and the future is absolutely inappropriate if we know that 75% is related to individual complaints and if we know that the biggest increase in family law is even 103% in that year, so it's not about illegal migrants, it's not about seeking the right of same-sex communities. So all what is considered a field of human rights and what has rightly been advocated by the former Ombudsman must remain exactly in that kind of independent institution. And then colleagues should look a little more closely at how they attack, so they attack a new candidate as you know we are often told that we are not even alone to blame for who our parents are and how they are different opportunities of course, how someone is progressing in life, but let's say no one about candidate Tena Simonović Einwalter said, and I'm sure no one in Europe needs to know that she was originally elected to, for the head of the executive board of the anti-discrimination network and promoting equality of the European Equality Network so-called. Equinet. On the other hand, it also has different years of experience at national and international level precisely at promoting the protection and promotion of human rights especially by combating discrimination, that, not only since 2013, it has been a deputy but since 2008 and has been working as an adviser in the Public Attorney's Office and that it has absolutely had experience. I would dare say that I would like to say that, wherever we choose to be in independent bodies, but also in the ministries, that we can praise people who are also at national level absolutely experts in the area they deal with, and also prominent representatives of Croatia as well as Mrs. Shimonović Einwalter and representatives of Croatia at the Council of Europe are just about the topic and racism, and here we could hear something about it. So what's important is that when we talk about institutions like the Ombudsman and we point it out, it's important that he's independent and that he's independently protecting everyone's rights and that he can't be equal and if that's a condition then it's unacceptable to talk here, I don't know about the money of political, political organisations or institutions, and here everyone here will, according to some of their world-wide or political inclinations, probably recognize every time someone chooses to choose a prominent, prominent position to belong to another mile. I see that my colleague Shimonovic did not mind being a member of the Peace Studies Centre. So that a young man who wants to practice human rights should not stand for peace or should not stand up for the same sex communities or for women’s human rights. The left block club will surely support her candidacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38469	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38470	Thank you President, fellow MPs and MPs. Once again, it is necessary to reiterate that the Ombudsman is the authority of HS to promote and protect human rights and freedoms established by the constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. The Advocate General shall monitor the compliance of the laws and regulations with the provisions of the Constitution, having even the right to apply for an assessment of the consent of the law with the constitution. This should, in itself, be enough for HS to be very interested in what the Ombudsman describes in the reports submitted by HS. It is therefore totally unacceptable and unheard of that we have not yet discussed the report for 2018 and 2019, and the report for 2020 has already arrived. I'll look back on that a few times during this speech. And what about those ex-wife reports, now the former attorney general is saying? It says that the most vulnerable citizens' rights are the weaker property, says the most vulnerable persons over 65, warns of growing social inequalities, the inaccessibility of public services, the problems of the citizens with justice, the inability to exercise the right to free legal assistance. Remember when we discussed this, so we found that about 4 million per year, kuna per year, for this purpose we single out, and I believe that only the City of Zagreb spends annually on legal services twice as much. In her reports, Lora Vidovic gave hundreds and hundreds of recommendations to competent authorities whose implementation would contribute to raising the quality of life of citizens and stronger protection of guaranteed constitutional rights and freedoms. Not only was HS not interested here to discuss and hear what recommendations the Ombudsman made, but he did not do anything to check whether any of these recommendations had been adopted and implemented in practice at all. The fact that we haven't discussed the report for 2018 and 2019, the fact that we haven't done almost anything to correct the injustices described by the Ombudsman in those reports is the biggest tax on our own institutions, and also the shameful relationship between you and HDZ, according to bodies that should protect the public and not your HDZ interest. What exactly are these reports about? It's about the fact that the current government in the continuity of certain years destroys national tissue, you can see that the decline in the standard of living of citizens who emigrate, you can see it through the devastation of space, you can see it through the weak sub-capacitated institutions. That's what Laura Vidovic is talking about in her reports. So I was quite appalled by the exposure of my colleague Nina Rasdic. But she might not have really looked back on him if he hadn’t referred to the government of the Gorenec in his speech. Well, since most Croatian citizens still remember well who and what Vlado Gotovina was, which he stood for and what he represented, I believe that Nino Rasdic should not be called upon and his political and public action should not be identified with the views of the government of Gotovina and... I would not agree with any one of his words here today. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is worse said by Nino Rasdic is that in the reports submitted, Lora Vidovic described injuries that would justify that there is an illusion of human rights violations and freedoms in the Republic of Croatia that are not actually present. He accused Loru Vidovic of being defiled in some way by the Republic of Croatia. And the same attitude of the defilement of the Republic of Croatia I heard from Nikola Grumoja when we were at a zoom international conference that talked about corruption in the Republic of Croatia. So do not put our problems ahead of the international community. And that almost reminds me of the attitude of those people who think that when someone in their own house beats you that it's not right to talk about it in front of neighbors because that would be a shame. No dear fellow MPs and MPs, it is a shame when the crime is hiding, and Lora Vidovic in her reports did not hide anything. In its reports, which Nino Rasdic calls "the 200-page brochures", there is a painful description of Croatia's situation as it is today. There is also an indication how to correct this situation, how to make Croatia a country that its citizens will not be ashamed of? I find it embarrassing that Laura Vidovic is accused of being some kind of parapolitical actor, of promoting particular ideological interests. On the contrary, I believe that Nino Rasdic today, and otherwise began to impose some of his ideology with which civil progressive Croatia disagrees. The fact that more has been said today and criticised some report by Lora Vidovic, which has not been discussed at all, represents the same cowardice behind which the current government is hiding. And that says something about it, let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38471	My colleagues, please let the esteemed representative say what she wants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38472	And that is the best argument why Laura Vidovic did not even report to the competition for the next term. In fact, very few people have applied, and it has already become symptomatic. First of all, we have the fact that HDZ is very often late in the execution of competitions for key state bodies. We see that there are fewer and fewer candidates in public procurement and public calls, and that's something that says about how our prominent people who could contribute to building a better state and better society see their chances during this parliamentary government. So that's actually what we should really be worried about. For indeed, it is obvious that Lora Vidovic was not a parapolitical figure, as Nino Rasdic says, but rather the intensity of this authority is that people who put themselves on key functions be politically invisible figures. It is not wanted by a new occupier or attorney-general to continue what Laura Vidovic started, to describe reality as our citizens see it. So, the report described Croatia as being viewed by an average Croatian citizen, not the reality that it wants citizens to see it watched with the eyes of Andrej Plenkovic and the ruling majority. Since only two candidates have passed such a non-critical assessment by the board of directors, and we have no idea at all what you are from the new occupier or the attorney general expects, except if possible, to be as invisible as possible, I, according to the proposed candidates, am expressing my skepticism for the time being.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38473	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ, and the respected representative Damir Habian will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38474	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, please allow me, on behalf of the HDZ Club, to put forward an opinion on the proposal of the candidate for the Ombudsman. It was by here by some parliamentary representatives who spoke on behalf of their clubs actually words and topics that aren't on the agenda. Therefore, this topic is only about the choice or proposal of two candidates for the Ombudsman. In fact, some MPs and MPs could hear a lot about reports that are therefore not on the agenda. It was possible to hear some incorrect data that the reports were not available, they are available on the network pages of the 2018, 2019, and it was also heard that there were no reports for 2020. There is no reason why the law requires that the previous calendar year report be submitted in the first quarter of the current year. A lot has already been said and known about the election itself. So he is elected by the Croatian Parliament for the term of office of 8 years, with the possibility of course re-election. The whole procedure of the new occupier's staff has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman. As is known, a joint session of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities was held where candidates for the Ombudsman were presented, namely those 4 who met all the conditions prescribed by law. And all the candidates I would say had the same conditions at that joint session where all the squads could present their programme and then answer the questions of members and members of those two committees. And just as counterpart Bosnjakovic and all other MPs and MPs had the opportunity to attend the joint session. After the previous opinion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities was delivered, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, after a secret vote, proposed to the Croatian Parliament two candidates, namely Mrs Sandra Hančić and Mrs Tena Simonović Einwalter. Namely, those candidates were given a convincing majority of votes on the committee in question, which may be understandable if we look at their life stories as well. Therefore, those candidates are indeed persons who meet all the conditions prescribed by the law itself, and also have a truly respectable and legal, but also a business career. I don't think any of the MPs and MPs here can dispute the importance of the Institute of the Public Attorney as the authority of the Croatian Parliament to promote and protect human rights and freedoms established by the constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms. The rights and powers of the Advocate General prescribed by the Law on the Ombudsman are very broad. Therefore, since participating in the work of the Croatian Parliament in a way that points to the need to adopt amendments to laws and other regulations or to draw attention to the need to comply with legal and sublegal regulations with international standards and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Moreover, the Ombudsman himself may point out to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the need to adopt laws, sublaws, strategies, programmes and other acts in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms and to ensure the rule of law. Therefore, it is apparent that the diapazon of its rights and powers is broad and the position of the Ombudsman is as it is established in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia as of exceptional importance. It is precisely because of the above-mentioned HDZ Representatives' Club that it expects the future Ombudsman to use its rights and powers stemming from the positive rules of the Republic of Croatia to the greatest extent possible to represent, promote and protect human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international acts. It should also be mentioned how art. 260. The Rules of Procedure of the HS set out how a secret vote is held in the election or appointment in the case where the number of candidates proposed is therefore greater than the number to be elected and, accordingly, the HDZ Representatives' Club will, of course, make its decision when it will be on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38475	Thank you. Now we move on to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38476	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So somewhere at the end of the day, we see that it's not much of an interest, but I'm absolutely sure of something, which is that it would be incomparably better if we had and discussed a report on the work of the attorney general, if the attorney general were to replace the attorney general, they were left in the close selection of two women. If we had a report for 2018, then a report for 2019, and I think, last week, a report came to the assembly for 2020, there could have been a united debate and we could have ended this story and it's not good to put ourselves in a position to talk about someone's work talking about the next heir or heiress will be in this case. There's open and talk and there's always the story of whether to unite all offices or not. We need to know what we want, what we want those who are attorneys to do, do we want to do their job and show the real situation or do we want to be shown a distorted picture? And let me, I will in an individual debate my experience. So, I was in executive power and... The attorney general was, and then the attorney general, and she made a report. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was convinced that we were doing a very good job, I read that report, and I saw that it wasn't exactly so, and then I made a mistake that we all made very often, I didn't say a little bit of that that's how people see us, the lawyer sees our job that way, but it was my fault. And, of course, after that report that we've had, we've had a meeting, there's a civil defender with all the people, and I've realized actually the role and importance of the attorney general is to show how the citizens are experiencing the work of the executive to write it, that no matter who likes it or doesn't like to read it, to read the measures, and that when the next year's report is that it's one measure, you know how the cartoon is, so something, it's smaller. And that's the role of the attorney general, not the role of telling us that we're handsome, successful, smart, that we're doing a great job. The role is to say that, too, if that's the case. And the role is to say the citizens have complained for your work, I will be very, very specific... That construction inspections don't do their job, that they don't go out, that you don't have a clear housing policy, that the prices of apartments are too expensive, that the building of apartments doesn't fit, that you don't have a clear municipal policy, that our prices of services are too expensive, so all that was the jurisdiction and the measures in which they are, you do that, that and that. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's the task of someone seeing it, especially when you're in one term of four years. In the second report, there will always be dissatisfaction, and there will always be those who need to, who think they need better and good that way. So, I'm really sure that it would be incomparably better, we had the last report on the work of the occupier for 2017, we discussed it if I wasn't wrong in 2018, there was one very interesting debate in this assembly that lasted until late evening and we discussed a number of things. So no one could argue that what was written there was based on certain things. Imagine what the 2020 report was like when we had a crown or covid that we still have, when there was an earthquake, what would be seen through the attorney general's report. And instead of having it in the assembly, if we had the opportunity to discuss it, that every, so that, to see what the situation is, no, we put in those reports some of these hallways, we were wandering the halls of HS and we'd get into a situation, I'd like to not say "I told you so," and I'm afraid it would be "I told you so" that those reports will formally be the second female attorney to come here and say "I'm talking about reports, but it's about the work of another of mine, my predecessors". And when we start to think about what's important to the attorney general, I'm absolutely talking about the female, because she is also now and everything else, so she needs to point out in this society all the situations we have, and those who are in power, who have the opportunity to change, should change and show in the report progress that is, but unfortunately, a lot of things are changing, but that's not going to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38477	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38478	When should you single out three areas in which it is recognizable in public, or perhaps outside the public, the work of the previous occupier of the occupier?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38479	Dear representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38480	Thank you very much for your replica. That replica would make a lot more sense if we had a report on the work of the attorney general, and then there'd be a chance to talk about it. One area is certainly social policy and one area is where we go to great poverty. The second topic is the theme of the pensioners she was very fond of and spoke about, and the third topic would certainly be about something that is very reluctant to talk about, say, what is a greeting for a home ready or something like that has done in our society. You have to do some steps and you have to make some changes and until you say and put some things in place there won't be. But these topics that the attorney general was talking about were very clear in her views. You know when you're clear, then you get it really every time and you don't like it too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38481	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38482	Thank you. My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, I've thought about it a little bit, and I think we should correct your position on the report debates. So we'll have a great situation theoretically that if the deputy deputy is elected, then Laura Vidovic will present three reports for 2018, '19 and '20. Lore Vidovic and we will be able to assess immediately whether there will be continuity or discontinuity. So, this is not a bad situation at all, I will enjoy hearing that if Mrs. Shimonovic is elected to justify the good work of Advocate Laura Vidovic, and I must tell you that here I am listening to your debate, I think it is not a bad thing at all, that this is actually one situation and this time thanks to the President of the Parliament and the parliamentary majority, which will allow us by the end of the term of office if these reports ever come on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38483	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38484	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk you know that the history of life teacher would not be the first time some reports that in one Parliament's assembly have not come to the agenda but have not arrived and never been a real opportunity, so they have stayed for some other times and for some other occasions. The same way I wouldn't dare do it, or maybe you have some other information that I don't have that you're going to tell me who's going to be the attorney general who's going to succeed this female attorney. I have this privilege of having one candidate and another because it's just the two of them, so we're talking about women, I know, so I know the lady who's the deputy now, and I know the Belovarchan woman, and then you have some privilege of seeing one or the other from some other angle, but it has nothing to do with the choice of relationships. So we need to know what we want, do we want to make someone really.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38485	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38486	Thank you. So here's the teaching question of colleague Selak Rasudiæ, who is actually very good because this is perhaps the first female attorney general we can point out to three areas that we couldn't possibly do for the previous ones and I don't think that because of these steps we haven't seen a few last reports, and precisely because of those expenditures that she's made and who have made it impossible for her to do much further work because of the government's neglect, we don't have her again as a candidate here. These steps are huge precisely in the area of citizens' social rights issues in relation to financial institutions, this is the first prosecutor to start dealing with the issue of enforcement, impact on fundamental human rights, the question of the Agency for the collection of claims, and it has been clearly and constantly telling you that this House here regulates the issue. She also dealt with the issue of violence at the borders of Croatia, which is what particularly hurt you, although the whole of Europe is also telling you because you have never bothered to investigate this issue and we have not seen the last three reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38487	The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash. Thank you very much. Please, let's not exceed the time, you always do it all the time. It's simply rudely high and the rest of the MPs, you're wasting their time. Here you are, dear MPs, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38488	Thank you very much. So, I was Parliament's representative in 2018 when there was a report for 2017, the occupier came here, you could ask, comment, so there were comments and then there were some who thought this or that, came with their deputies I think in one decent composition, the fact is that it was in those late nights those of 9 and so on, but you could ask, you could argue, she was absolutely defending her views. I think, or not to think, but I am sure that the interest of all of us should be that someone who does their job at any time is willing to come here, defend their views and say the reasons for it. Often, we don't like what it says, and that's why I've been having my own discussion, and I've been saying that my first contact was, I was mad as a dragon when I saw what it says because I was convinced we were doing a great job, and now there's something written there. I soon realized that what she wrote was true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38489	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38490	Thank you very much. My colleague Rasudić spoke on behalf of the Mosto Club, unfortunately on behalf of the regiment I will speak for myself if the attorney general was neither defending the regiment nor acting on behalf of the regiment. We need to talk about equality of rights, the right to health care. If everyone in the Republic has the same right to health care, I didn't hear it coming. I know that in Zagreb... even better healthcare, and the best health services are in Zagreb. In Split-Dalmatia County where there are 500,000 people, we also have Hercegovina, we have and tourism has one clinical hospital, there are as many as 4.5 examples in Zagreb. And I'm not talking about rural areas, border areas where we don't have health services. Equality in education, I'd like to hear that from the attorney general and the previous and these now because children don't have equal rights, they don't have the possibility of their parents, they don't have the same option. So he had a labour rights problem, here's the Brodotrogir for seven months people who work for Concar don't get paid, eight months while building their empire in Honey. I'm sorry he's not here. He could confirm that. I was expecting the D.A. to talk about equality, so here's what I can tell you about the executors. What was that voice, about corruption, about clienteleism, I didn't hear a voice, and I'd like to hear a voice from the next one, but I heard a voice, a attitude about Hos, about that I heard a strong voice about Hos. Ideological colouration, I've heard a lot of it, believe me that in two-thirds of Croatian people have difficulty living, do not have the same status as in other developed parts of the Republic of Croatia and that is, that is, it is a basic, demographic decline, which is why people emigrate. So the injustices at every step and the attorney general is the one whose voice must be heard, and not only is that quoted from "Prosecutors and Sons" that he has how many colleagues Raspoudic said 55, six halves that is a good company, a company, the colleague Rasudic said well. Matan and the crew had 12 if it's that big a company. So once again there's too much trouble in our society, we have too many monopolies, we have violations of basic human rights, but a strong voice has been heard. She now mentioned a colleague of Bencic's illegal migrants crossing the border, a strong voice was heard. And indeed all the people in a difficult situation need help, but the Croatian state with its borders and no more than Merkelica are open borders than the borders are closed, and the Croatian police are on the bumper, the Croatian police and Croatian citizens who are experiencing major damage. Here's an example in Vrgorec, a man's car was stolen, a broken vehicle to a farmer, a young man has his family at the very border. Whom did he depecate because his car was stolen from the garage, which was hit, and that was done by an illegal migrant, who secured it? You should have heard the voice of the Ombudsman in Europe's mountain, these few Europarliamentaries who are salting our minds that have closed their borders, closed their Italy, closed their Slovenia, closed Hungary, closed all of Europe, and only in Croatia come salty mind, came to us with salty brains. What don't they open the borders when they're so smart, not throwing wire, where there's the strength of Europarliamentaries who want to make us a banana state, humanitarian, social sensitivity to these people in these situations in this migrant crisis should be absolute and maximum? But the Croatian state is forgotten by those who come to the border in front of the European Parliament to act, and in their countries of content, they put wire and army.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38491	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38492	Comrade Bulj, you will allow me to work, my colleague Bukarica has to answer the phone, so I will wait, you will allow me to do a small public poll, so please repeat it without question. How do you know the work of a former attorney general?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38493	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38494	Well, on a regular basis, some world-renowned, ideological attitudes that came out of it, and HOS, it seems to me that the attorney general was building her... career on it until the workers who were both in HoS and who weren't in HOS and who were sons, their dots were in partisans, the Ustashas don't get paid and what we're going to do now. I recognize that she only commented on the HOS, an honorable unit of Croatian forces that fought from Vukovar to Dubrovnik in the most honorable way and founded along with the Croatian army, the Croatian police state. But there was this comment about Hos, what children are trying to learn about Hos, about Hos people who left their bones under their marks for this Croatia, which is why I remember it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38495	The next replica is the respected representative of Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38496	Dear fellow Bull. I'll go back to this topic of lipe company, there's 53 bucks not 55 or six you said 53 had 2020, and maybe now it's come to 56 see continuous growth. So, when we talk about this human rights holding company that's spreading mastodontically, how do you explain to yourself that this 2008 Attorney's Office had a budget of 7 million kuna, and 2020, it grew slightly less than 13 million kuna, did it double human rights violations in Croatia compared to 2008 so it's twice as much work or how do you explain it to yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38497	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38498	And apparently the effects are very small, the voice wasn't strong, the effects were nothing, it certainly didn't reduce human rights violations, there was no equality, there was no corruption, there was no protection, there was nothing, absolutely nothing, but I see that the budget went up. I wish it were the other way around, and I wish at least it was proportionate than to increase this second violation of human rights, in terms of equality, in terms of all violations, corruption, nepotism, employment, party cards I think you could talk for two days. Here's equality in health services, equality in every education, equality in the Republic of Croatia by second... so here's student transport to school equality. Everyone would have to have some kind of equality with their parents, but you can't hear the voice except Mrs. Attorney General... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38499	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38500	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, I have been following your counseling work quite closely since you entered the assembly, although this is because of the quantity sometimes quite challenging and I have noticed in your discussions that you speak of sovereignty on the positive side. You have just accused a few Europarliamentaries of sovereignism because they have closed the borders, not enough to think of themselves, that they are not solid enough towards us, so here is this, who, as the old folk proverb goes, "whoever the sovereignity of the lie can come to his door". Therefore, a little more cautiously, I agree with what you said, Europe should have been much better organised as far as migrants and pandemics, and there are certain weaknesses of the EU that need to be corrected, but on the other hand, and when it comes to something in Croatia, we must act with equal criteria that we too do not make those mistakes that others do, and that is where you criticized them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38501	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38502	You used to say, “when the sword is drawn from the sword and the dead. ” I would simply say let all these euro-parliamentaries open the borders, let them open the borders in their countries, Italian euro-parliamentaries calling, no, but the closed border, no more open borders, no more calls, but Croatia is as guilty of everything, Croatia is guilty of everything. So we have a legal obligation, the Croatian police are protecting entry from illegal migrants, that's quite clear. Well, he can't cross the border. The only thing that we were good at was closing the border on the people of Livna, I don't know, from Herzegovina, we shut down their border crossings neatly so they couldn't cross to school or work, and while illegal migrants went wherever they wanted and left great damage behind people. These people's tribune help, but the state is the state, it's The basic principle and constitutional obligation both the police and the Croatian military. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38503	The next debate will be the respected representative of Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38504	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm a little confused. I'm not sure this institution really exists. And I'm sure this body doesn't exist. How can we talk about the appointment of a new attorney general when we are currently in 2017. And the current occupier's office hasn't expired yet? How much more can this topic move exactly by the ruling majority who will assume and raise their hands for someone who does not know the work of that institution? My colleagues and colleagues, I'm not sure we have the subject of discussion. We're talking about metaphysical illusions. The Attorney General's institution doesn't exist for us. Apparently, one person in blue hair has been seen in some media who discusses some issues and some citizens know her as the attorney general, but it has not been heard of here. The point of the debate in this assembly can be asked as a question if we ever determine what is fundamental, and that is order, not priority, but order of common sense and logic by which these discussions should come on the agenda. So he's very prosaic and clear to everyone. First reports, and then appointments because our conversation here with the candidates offered, and our vote of confidence, at least one of these candidates depends greatly on valorising her previous work because she was inside the attorney general's office. But that's not going to happen because the valorization is gone because we're talking metaphysical illusions. We are inside an institution that does not know the institution of the occupier, and at the same time, the same ruling majority suggests that we choose a new non-existent person. This debate is thus gaining strange scientific fantastic directions. When we talk about the institution that the citizens heard about, there's a question, and that's why I've been doing this little poll, what do they know about the institution of the attorney general? And indeed in most of the answers you will hear something about topics that are related to the world's horizons and that are interpreted as ideological. What should be the order of the attorney general's priorities? The answer to that is simple, and it's not mine. This responds to the number of citizens' applications in certain areas that establish order of their priorities. The most complaints are in the field of health, labour and service relations, I speak in the order in which they go, the discrimination of the judiciary, after which the municipal activities that are due to the increase of 49% for the first time among the 5 most represented. So, you understand what should be the basic job of the attorney general, and you understand what makes the people aware of the work of the attorney general. We can also question media action and sensational habits of journalists, etc., but there is also something of the personal interest of the attorney general. There's a lot to talk about before we trust this non-existent institution again. It deals with hate speech, announces and supports new protocols, not at all questioning what these protocols are, and this should be its basic task because new protocols do not solve the problem of hate speech which is otherwise minor in Croatia but violate fundamental human rights because they introduce some strange syntagms such as the absence of another obvious motive where everyone in the future will be able to be declared a supporter of hate speech. This should be noticed by a female attorney who protects our rights, not by uncritically promoting new protocols. The second question concerns the regionalisation of Croatia, do we need regional offices and where they should be located? Why only in big cities? So we know where the regiment's most unprotected in small areas, where we need offices, where we need focus. What kind of institution is it supposed to be? Is her increase a sign of her unquality work or should she be even greater? And how long can it take to solve one problem when we know that many are subject to complexity?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38505	Thank you. We have several replicas, she is the real respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38506	My colleague Raspoudić, I really strongly support you for saying that we need to discuss the reports first, and then the appointments. And about everything else you've said, I must admit that you've deeply confused me. So, that I am now not going into your relationship with my colleague Rasputic privately, but as a fellow representative from the same assembly club. On the one hand, you are talking about a non-existent figure, about a person with blond hair, and a colleague, Rasdic, called Loru Vidovic a parapolitical figure that promotes agendas for which he does not have a foothold. You're saying that we need offices in small rural areas, and colleague Rasdic talked about the fact that the occupier is like a holding company that has too many employees and spends too much. So at least get inside the club and discuss which topics and which ones you are actually representing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38507	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38508	I would like to reply to your findings, although the answer to everyone with common sense is obvious, and that is the mere action of the attorney general is a broad term and in five minutes can be processed from several different perspectives. I understand that it is unclear for you if you are a spokesperson for a civil progressive Croatia that has been recognized by even 1% of these same civil progressive Croats. But it is not unusual because your focus is not alive but as you have shown in your discussion, you are primarily the spokeswoman of the dead. I expect you'll see that in your future election result.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38509	The next replica is the respected representative of Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38510	Honorable MPs. In this debate here about the lawyer's work we could hear from the perspective of the centre or the centre to the right that she was ideologically scarred, that she was dealing with parapolitical and the like, while on the other hand on the far left spectrum we heard that she was not politicized, that she was neutral, that she was dark. So is it a little doubt to you that on the far left spectrum they're just about to do these things, and at the center we already have accusations that ideologies and parapolitical action? It reminds me a little of the story of Juventus in the Italian League and the stretching of Juventus by judges. If you could hear yourself playing Juventus and Fiorentine, of course, those of Fiorentine are rebelling that they stole for Juventus and decided the existing red Fiorentina two pens for Juventus, and Juventus will say no, it's an excellent, professional, objective, impartial judge. Do you have the impression that something is wrong, if we see what part of the spectrum the praises come from, and what criticism?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38511	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38512	I find it unusual for some to have the possibility of a debate from different perspectives on the work of the Ombudsman, and it seems to me that some cannot even understand when this debate comes from the ranks of the opposition or minority that it cannot possibly be political pressure and that it is the first-class political right of those who represent them to express their views and to question all institutions because it is an institution that represents this Parliament, not an institution separate from this Assembly, independent of this Assembly. It's an institution that embodyes this Parliament. And yes, it's obvious that the attorney general, like any person, is a person of certain worldly views, is only the right question is, can we speak openly about them, can we recognize them, and to what extent is it willing to put them aside?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38513	Thank you. The next replica is a representative of Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38514	Thank you very much. My colleague, it is the attorney general who should defend the regiment that is derived from it, but when we look at human rights, freedom, violation of these rights, when we speak of certain rights to education which I said in the debate in the Republic of Croatia on health services, really in rural areas no one stands for it. The attorney general didn't raise his voice for those people in the endangered areas that were moving out, I didn't hear that voice. She was engaged exclusively and I was the only one who remembered the HoS, the Croatian Defence Forces, most of all in this part I remember as a parliamentary representative, and probably the entire Croatian people. The basic question is, what is your role as attorney general or attorney general? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38515	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38516	It's a matter of priority order, and I don't make up the order of priorities, but he's going according to civil complaints. We see what bothers the citizens the most, so here's what we do if we look at the 2020 report. Most of them are plagued by health care, and then work and service relations, so they're plagued by naked life, ordinary existence. Virtuosity is a public defender and therefore it cannot be everyone to impose this topic on the media, not even if we are in a positive interpretation of being favored and claim that this is exclusively the result of media sensationalism, which we recognize on other topics, to succumb to media pressure and deal with only these topics. She could, she had to, and she should have become primarily recognizable by what bothers Croatian citizens most, not by what she personally cares about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38517	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Nina Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38518	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will build on where I stood in the speech on behalf of the club, where I started with the thesis that the attorney's office is the fastest growing industry in Croatia and supported with the almost doubled budget of the office, this holding for human rights, and that it is growing in recent years with a rhythm of half a million kuna a year. I don't understand why. And if the number of employees is 53, now if 53 people, if two lawyers work a year and produce these 200 pages, I'd say a good job. It's 600 working days for two people, they summed it up on 200 pages, etc. But if one lipa company of 53 people, 53 paws produced that and we're going to discuss reports and we're going to go into detail, then it's justified to call it a brochure, when we see how many Croatian citizens are and how much of the budget is invested in that result. The occupier's occupancy was public, later cases have been made up, such as this nine-year-old Afghan, who was, for God's sake, unaccompanied by parents, rejected and returned. It's not the first time, some have received annual press awards that have written about this father who's separated from the girl, etc., then it turns out that the character is a multiple con artist, that the girl never even made the trip. The attorney general had harder gaffs, here's an example. On its website, the Ombudsman published the text under the heading ‘Institutions without reaction to an anonymous complaint by a police officer on illegal conduct’, which included an anonymous complaint with allegations of illegal actions by police officers on the basis of orders from the superiors. To what she did, the DORH, the DORH, who said that he felt that the public announcement of an anonymous complaint by which the attorney general quoted "obliged objectively the secrecy and efficiency of the reconnaissance", as opposed to what he stated in his publication, should be protected in particular. And this is a particularly sensitive situation with the prosecutor and all other possible future data providers. And I quote DORH, "It is particularly worrying that a threat to the secrecy of the reconnaissance and effectiveness of the conduct of the law enforcement body as well as a threat to the necessary level of protection of applicants has occurred by ignoring relevant legal provisions by the attorney general." The attorney general discriminates against different groups of Croatian citizens. So in this report that is yet to come and I don't know why we're waiting for him this long, from 2018, in Recommendation No. 30 recommends: “The Ministry of the Interior to develop methods of data collection on the ethnicity and national origin of persons who are being stopped by police officers in order to identify potential discriminatory ethnic profiling and to determine the effectiveness of these practices.” It would therefore determine the percentage of minority members and how many majority people are among the damages in police treatment. But I wouldn't say that among the perpetrators of crimes, for example in Međimurje, which I think would be bad, counting people, sorting it that way. If it were not just to do everything to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether they are Croats or members of national minorities, are equal in all things, but that it is that some should be particularly privileged, it can be seen from the recommendation no. 52 where the Ombudsman recommends the MUP to be listed in the original foundations of the Constitution with a strong link with the Republic of Croatia for members of minority nations, an unfavourable way of obtaining citizenship is provided. The report shall occasionally be sent down to the level of ridiculous soles, for example from 2019. 33 When it talks about the citizens' protest in Međimurje, it states that the protest is otherwise as peaceful, it includes attacks by individuals who have been called upon to hate the Roma. Some protesters pointed out inappropriate transparencys with fascist features or wore pro-Tastasian black shirts. Proustian black shirts. I'll ask her when she comes to explain what kind of shirt she was talking about. And especially to us explain the difference between Ustasha's black shirt, Proustian black shirts and ordinary black shirts as often worn by Giorgio Armani, George Clooney, or Johnny Cash, for example. Here, that's the level of those reports and then you don't talk about ideologies. Time's up, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38519	We also have more replicas on your exhibit. The first is the respected representative of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38520	At the beginning of the new session of the Parliament, I remembered the blasphemic idea of a critical reading of the prosecutor's report on gender equality. It is a good part of the parliamentary deputies and some in particular in the debate, threw them on their knees and declared a first-class political pressure on the fact that someone from the 8-seat club and the opposition minority dared to question the person chosen as such and who is as such a co-opted by the ruling majority. How do you explain the fact that you are the only person currently speaking openly critically about the institution of the attorney general and even more of the democracy of those who debate with you in the Assembly who feel that you have no right to do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38521	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38522	So I'm used to being told what I'm allowed to talk about all the time, what I can't talk about, and the attorney herself does even in my own report, so maybe the best thing to do is to apply it to what's written on the page, I'm asking my colleague Bauk to stay out of my way, on page 41 of the 2018 report by the attorney-in-law, says: "The migrants are another group to which discriminatory attitudes and prejudices and prejudices are growing in the Republic of Croatia, and the public opinion of the humanitarian assistant during the 2015 refugee crisis has moved in the direction of the dawn and xenophobia, which is why the refugee is now called almost exclusively illegal migrants who are publicly expressed mainly by fear and concern" How else does he who has crossed the border illegally and comes from a country where there is no war but "legal migrants"? Is that what the Human Rights Attorney takes away from us the right to speak and name things by their real name beyond ideological guidance? Here, that's the state of freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38523	Thank you. The next replica is respected MPs Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38524	Comrade Rasudiæ, you have re-wrote the institution of the Ombudsman in this speech, and you have also given very scandalous instructions about what you really expect the new attorney general should or should not or should not have done, which shows that you and the role of the Ombudsman in the constitution do not understand at all. So this is the institution to which citizens address when they feel that other competent state authorities do not treat them in an appropriate constitutional and legal manner, and so this thesis that the female attorney general has discriminated against Croatian citizens, you obviously do not understand, and you cannot understand that her recommendation referred to Roma, which indeed in certain areas may have been mistreated by the police. And the fact that she asked for a particular report and data from the police department, so she didn't get it, enough. shows that Croatia lacks the rule of law. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38525	Thank you. The reply of the respected representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38526	Dear colleagues of Oreshkovic, purely rhetorically, instead of the term "blatti" and "scandalous" I wish you had made some arguments. The last example you set if it will be counted by the ethnicity of the people who were and whose rights have been violated in police action, which logic defends to look at this same area as the ethnic structure of the perpetrators of the crimes, what would some want? I don't think it's good for either of us, I think that every citizen should be treated equally, not committed there, that kind of discrimination. So, I'd like to hear the arguments, that she's only acting on citizens' complaints, so which citizen made the complaint that she said illegal migrants shouldn't be called illegal migrants? I am not speaking in my mind, I am speaking on the basis of data from Semiha Borovac, the minister of refugees and displaced persons of BiH, who has long spoken of the structure of migrants in the Bihaq area, that the vast majority of them have nothing to do with Syria and war areas but are younger men who come from countries where there is no war, who have crossed the border illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38527	Thank you. I didn't see that she had previously committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Selak Rasdic, I apologize for not giving you my word immediately, here you go. What is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38528	So obviously he's hurt his ankle. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. Thus, qualifications such as “scandalous” and patronisation such as “you don’t understand” are not part of a parliamentary debate because they do not reach for any arguments, but indeed the fact is that something is said about the intellectual reach and capacity of those who serve them and not for the first time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38529	Okay, so it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because if I were to declare it a violation of the Rules of Procedure then what you said would have to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So I have to give you a heads-up, and all I'm saying is that we're holding a level of debate at a certain level appropriate to this honorable home. We have the next replica of the respected representative, Maria Jelkovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38530	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, from your debate, I have concluded that in the work of the current occupier's staff, in fact, there have been many times represented an indication of those issues that have come into focus right through the media, not what they are, which were the problems of our fellow citizens themselves. Do you think at all that the institution of the occupier is accessible enough to our fellow citizens and do you expect the future attorney general to take a step in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38531	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38532	Thank you. We've heard this one complaint today as if 75% were based on the demands of citizens of individual cases for the office. Well, of course it does, so 53 people are there, of course they're going to determine some of the things they exist for. My opinion is that 13 could do them quite well, not 53. However, I pointed out and it is my right as an obvious problem in the actions of the attorney general that it acts as a particular ideological, I would say, an actor on a public and political scene, so that very often the money comes forward politically. In addition to the evidence that we heard today and in the assembly that there are already criticisms for politicization coming from the Centre, that on the far left they say it's dark and neutral, etc., that's enough evidence for me. So, I'm not saying that this office hasn't done any good things, of course it has to exist. I believe that there is a need to be united with the remaining defence offices in one and with a reduced number in line with the scope of the work of the people who will work there, it is an important institution and that is why it is not needed to be defiled by such a kind of political action and step-by-step.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38533	Thank you. The next replica is a representative of Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38534	Thank you very much. I'll break up with my colleague, the attorney general, so they're insinuating. For example. Here's a colleague named Bauk with a black mask, and now I can comment like she is Ustasha, Prostaska, Dostajska, I think the black color is black. My colleague Murganić has a red shirt, and now we can say that this is, like, the Croatian color is red, we don't even want to be ashamed of it. That's what the attorney general is up to, like a tie or a light blue or green in you doesn't matter at all. So I think what it's led to, so is it absurd in so much nepotism, corruption, clientalism, we have so many problems in society, unbalanced development, not the same rights of people in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia, it's been dealing with the black color of Ustasha, Prousta, Dostajska, black is the black color on Arsen Bauku or on me is the black color, black mask, on someone's blue, green. And if he's got his hands on that public defender, and if we're buying into Croatian society, then the role is not achieved, but rather the opposite. They destroyed that institute. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38535	Thank you. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38536	Thank you. Getting ready for today's debate, I asked myself if I was buying these things. But we will have hope soon to discuss the report for those 3rd, 2018, '19. And the '20s. where we'll have time to talk in all the other segments that the attorney general is aware of, and his office, should deal with, all of this will come in order, but I think this kind of parapolitical action is important to clear up just in order to allow the future attorney to do her job. It's better to have full support and politics and the public in what it does, and I think that's where we all agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38537	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38538	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this was supposed to be one debate that found that the procedure was respected and that at the next secret vote, we would vote between the two candidates for the lawyer, one of whom is the current lawyer's deputy and it would represent some continuity and the other candidate who also made a public call and her election would be a little bit of a break away from the way the attorney-in-law did so so so far because she proposed to Mrs. McLaren. Shimonovic as a deputy. As far as the procedure is concerned, it is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where it says the election of the Ombudsman will be regulated by law. It doesn't say for the President of the Supreme Court, so I'm going to do a little comment here, and in accordance with that law, we've spent everything we've been through. One of the powers of the Advocate General is to apply to the Constitutional Court, I do not see any great meaning in this because the request to the Constitutional Court is filed on some text of the law, the law passed by the parliamentary majority, if the Ombudsman submits such a request, then does the job of the position. That's my position, so neither when I was part of the government nor when I was part of the opposition, I don't like someone else doing my job and I don't like the team anymore to have independent institutions doing the work of the opposition when we're in power, we're kind of not glad and probably not any government. As far as the report is concerned, here's all the things that we're going to remember the D.A.'s office by, one thing is that we haven't discussed the 2018 report, and the other is that we haven't discussed for 2019, and the third thing that you're all saying is that you're going to remember, so I'm going to remember it, at least this second part of her term, the first part of her term of office I'm going to remember for some things where we worked together, so I'm the Office of the Attorney General and the Ministry of Administration, where we used to step up, that's something Mrs. Dark Tarritash, and we used to be on the same track. My colleague Mrak-Taritash objected to me that I was overconfident in her impression of who would be elected, and I tried all the time to use the syntagm for Mrs. Simonović, if elected, therefore, if someone thought so, it was not my intention but I just wanted to mention that we will certainly discuss the report of the Ombudsman, the last one, in the Croatian Parliament and that this will be the next Ombudsman who can theoretically be her deputy, and in fact, it was a debate about some work together again, which I wanted to talk about. Since we didn't have a discussion about the report, then this debate was actually one strictly formal, served to discuss the work of the attorney-general, but it wasn't entirely fair, that she was there, probably being defended, and then it was supposed to be defended by certain representatives who had a good opinion about her work and then, of course, it was right to get the impression that some were being criticised, which was their absolute constitutional, legal and legal right and that there were other dams and what was also their constitutional, legal and representation law, I'm only sorry HDZ didn't even show about the reports she filed, not even now about her work, although I still have to notice, a certain birth imbalance in the present plenary session, so that you have 50% of the men and women from the SDP club, while Mrs. Benčić, it was also at the club We can also from the club Most, only there is left here, colleague Bošnjaković on behalf of the promoter, only the female part of the club, excuse me, only representatives of the club HDZ are exclusively women, which is not necessarily bad, but it is also symptomatic that... They're candidates again and to be,...... [[Intruder Reiner, you don't understand.]] and that such a structure is present, but now we can interpret it in whatever way you want. [[Intruder Reiner, you don't understand.]] As for the mask, here's how you see, this is the Armani mask, what you said to Rasdic, that on it the ZDS, would be a spring and if it were a big mouth on it, it would be a Ustasha, and I know that difference, and I don't have any problems explaining it to you, so if you need it, this is a fashion detail for me and not an ideological commitment, so I'm not wearing red ones either. I hope that when, when I'd like to get the mask of the Split yellow-black basketball club, then, it's still me, I haven't done that fashion detail, and I see there's a replica, so I'm done, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38539	Thank you. We have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative Selak Rasdic, what was injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38540	Art. 238, it's not that you've been sexually counting us, but I think that this whole debate has actually diminished all of us MPs because we're in a schizophrenic situation and my head is literally going to explode because there's a great chance that we have the continuity of this institution and bring the person who worked in it back to power while the same government denies the existence of that institution and does not want to put its reports on the agenda. I'm confused and I'm afraid my head is going to explode because of this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38541	All right, I hope it doesn't explode, but based on paragraph 240, I'm giving you a reminder by taking away the word, that's only theoretical, but secondly, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure consciously. We have the next replica of the esteemed representative of Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38542	Dear Representative Bauk, when you mentioned Giorgio Armani, he claims that there are only three colors for men's clothing, black this prostitute, white and blue and nothing else, there is this chromatic minimalism of Armani. But we're going to get serious. We've already had a similar situation here in the Parliament when the work of the state's attorney of the one who was a member of the Paramason Lodge who got the light from Pera Zapeta from Serbia, when his work in that year defended a new state attorney who doesn't have to be responsible at all. And now this strange situation is that we will discuss three years of work when there will be no more of that attorney general behind it and she has been responsible for this work. I wonder, do you now consider this experience that we have that this eight-year term is too long? As it seems, was he able to agree that one day we would declare that it would be five years and the possibility of two mandates and would be elected by a two-thirds majority in the Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38543	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38544	Some combination of what you said, if it's eight years old, then I'm not up for running again. As far as the election is concerned, it might be better for a two-thirds majority, I agree here because then you would have somehow greater independence. But imagine just how these are, I like to say it now that the President of the Republic has started using so-called. Attorney General, what's the matter with them, so their term of office is theoretically eight years or four years, I don't know anymore, but they can literally end their term tomorrow if the Parliament refuses their report. So this is such a special position to be further enlightened by this provocative name so-called if they can't really be called defenders, they can't defend any rights against the authorities that can replace them at the moment. What you said about the attorney general, that some combination would be good. And as for fashion there are different directions there now, I prefer this black, blue and white yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38545	The next replica is the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38546	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, I find your discussions always inspiring. I am pleased that you have confirmed that the legal procedure has been respected here and that you are very pleased with this, which means that you as an SDP are still advocating to comply with the law, which in the case of the now disputed subject of the election of the Supreme Court President is not thus shown in the work of your colleagues from your club who still do not advocate the compliance of the law. As far as continuity and discontinuity are concerned in the selection of the attorney general, the only thing I didn't realize was whether you were in favour of continuity or discontinuity, and as far as we're concerned about counting whether we're representatives or mixed representatives and representatives from a particular club, I think it's a little risky that you're giving us away because you might be in trouble to create some difference between MPs and advocates which is not in accordance with the principle of equality, and I know that's not what you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38547	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38548	I may agree with you in part, but I notice certain mathematical deviations if one group significantly falls from the average. So if you're 70% in the HDZ club, then the average is to be here, that's what I was going to say. For example, before I divided you into those who voted for Istanbul and those who did not and at some points were only those who voted against Istanbul, and some who did not talk about it, so I made that differentiation more so as to only indicate as a problem or as a phenomenon, and then we can discuss whether it has something to do with it or by chance. Now, as far as this procedure is concerned, I'm in favour of respecting the Constitution and the law that is in accordance with the Constitution, and basically I'm in favour of a deal if there is no Supreme Court president without agreement. No member of the SDP MPs' club is for the law to be disobeyed, not a single member of the SDP's Club that the Constitution is not respected, and I believe that if a political agreement is reached, it will be agreed, and if not, it will not be agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38549	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38550	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk, the fact is that the attorney general or the attorney general must not use his mandate solely on one thing, let's just say which color is black, which is red, which means what way he will play us because there are too many problems in society in Croatia, you know that, you are from Dalmatia as I am. Only the problems we have in the inequality of certain freedoms, rights, services of what the Constitution and laws prescribe, the ideological attorney should be much more visible on these issues, not just open topics that are essentially shared by the people and are ideologically positioned i.e. that the attorney general is giving his political views. If by this it is recognizable then truly Croatian society is divided, Croatian society will be even worse and we will not go...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38551	Thank you. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38552	So she was elected to me in 2013, proposed by our government and I would really feel quite uncomfortable if she hadn't had such an attitude about such things as you mentioned her, but he was in line with the positions of the Constitutional Court. Now this second, therefore, is the fact that it should be him or she should be a voice that helps citizens primarily when they find themselves damaged or discriminated, or when some of their rights are not exercised by state institutions, and she should, as a difolt, be a critic of the government either of the state, or of the local authorities so as not to be party-colored, let's say that at the local level, thank God still has different parties and then she can watch how much she helped the citizens. One part of the citizens is what you mentioned, perhaps the biggest problem, one another is something else, and it should, of course, take care of everyone as much as it can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38553	Thank you. Representative Bulj has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38554	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Bauk injured the article Rules of Procedure 238, because we must have the same standards, in my opinion, the tribune is the same criteria for me and Mr. Grbin and for all of us Croatian citizens and for Hosovce, if I think the best song was just singing as far as the mention of "For Home Ready" by your colleague, "Fighty Chavoglava" is concerned by me. Therefore, do not qualify that the ideological and secular topics are to be dealt with exclusively by the attorney general, and she would.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38555	It is not, of course, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it is the basis of the Article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Let's go to the final speeches, first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38556	The Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We met today in an unusual situation, we were supposed to discuss two candidates for a new occupier's staff who passed the resolution board, but we couldn't draw a line below what was before them because we lacked a parliamentary debate on the work reports for 2018, '19. and in the '20s. when she was head of that office, the attorney general on her way out. It creates this certain confusion, and the need to sort out the whole situation a little bit. That's why I guess I've all talked so much about the attorney general's work on the relationship and the very way that the office works, the attorney's office's mandate to choose, how much and so on so that we can at least mentally clear up a little bit of ground to see what the new lawyer is up to. We have pointed out from the Most Club on a few problematic things, we have detected as something that compromises and the reputation of this office in public, dealing with particular ideological topics in Croatia, we have also cited some concrete examples, also some violations and rules and procedures by the Ombudsman, some cases when she has treated parts of the citizens discriminatoryly, but on all of this, I will repeat once again, there will be detailed and further reasoned words when we talk about certain reports. What could have been heard in public, and some mentioned today in the assembly as a problem is that parents are one of the candidates people who have some responsible functions or have both in the academic community and in Croatian politics as well as international ones. I don't think that should be a problem, we don't live in feudalism, we don't have a dynasty or merit, but also some sins and problems. So I absolutely don't care whose office Plenkovic, who works at Mate Granic's office, whose mom was involved in writing the Istanbul Convention or whose dad works at the UN, doesn't have to have anything to do with it. However, when we talk about candidate Shimonovic Einwalter, what may be signifying is that she has been deputy attorney for eight years at the departure and that the ruling decision, I think it is bad for the simple majority to decide on the Ombudsman, but obviously it will also be the case now that the HDZ and its partners will make a decision which of the two candidates will become attorney, if the HDZ will decide that it will be Ms. Tena Shimonović Einwalter, it will mean that HDZ supports the continuity of the office's work as he was under Attorney-General Loro Vidovic selecting her deputy as the new lawyer. Perhaps there is a reason why we still don't have these three reports, and why it may only come to order when local elections pass because these objections that Attorney-General Lora Vidovic has caused in public were mainly about things where she has lunched with what she represents part of the HDZ electoral body, so it seems to me that the debate on these reports is now set aside during the post-election elections so as not to lead to a state of confusion of the potential electoral body of the ruling. But this is only speculation, so this kind of conclusion of the argument that the rulings support continuity, and therefore, in the important and work of Advocate Laura Vidovic, we can interpret it if he is elected as the current deputy attorney for the new prosecutor. In good faith, we have expressed everything today by wanting to help, in this way, clean up the territory on which the new Ombudsman is going to work and act so that she can primarily focus on what her tasks and powers are as stated in the Law on the Ombudsman. And I hope that the future in the Croatian public in the coming years and decades will be an important figure, we hope that a united office with significantly fewer employees, a office that will be more efficient, a figure that will be politically and morally unquestionable in the Croatian public and in this sense will be able to do its job as well as possible by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38557	Thank you very much. The next final on behalf of the centre and GLAS club will be spoken by respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38558	Thank you. I will once again say that by not discussing the 2018 reports, 2019 reports, and we already have this for 2020. The HS sent a clear message from the ruling, which it expects from the new Ombudsman. She expects to be invisible, and the way some MPs spoke about the results of her work, a comment that the office with some moves was compromised is something that I will oppose with all my strengths. Not only has Lore Vidovic's work not been compromised, but the reputation that the institution has acquired in international circles seems unfortunately unattainable in the years to come. The whole series of untrues has also been presented, so it is not true that the Office of the Public Attorney's Office at the time of the mandate, Laura Vidovic, primarily or dominantly dealt with ideological topics, and that the problems of the regiment were ignored, according to MP Miro Bulj. He says he hasn't heard of the problem, so he may not have heard of it, but because he should have read it, and a report by the attorney general clearly has too many sides for him. On the 200th page in 3 reports that have not been said almost a word in this House, we have just described the problems of the poorest and most repressed citizens with concrete examples, with examples from practice, with the life situations our citizens face and to which the institutions of this country, including the Croatian Parliament, remain deaf. What MP Rasdić said about the 2, 3 lawyers putting together some kind of 200-page brochure so that it does not justify the cost that taxpayers pay for the work of the attorney general, is also a rather embarrassing comment. In fact, the 200 pages. It represents a summary of work over a year, and in that same report, it says that the Office of the Attorney General has processed about 2,000 cases, so each of these items represents a file, each of these items represents one specific living situation that needs to be examined, collected data and documentation, very often coming out on the ground. And yes, Laura Vidovic was going out on the field and she saw, I dare say, all sorts of things on that ground. She dared to talk about the institutions of this state, that the competent authorities were breaking the laws that this state was making, in violation of the Constitution. And it is about respecting the Constitution, including its fundamental values, that some of the recommendations that we here in the Croatian Parliament today say that they have re-created in Croatian society. No, there are no divisions in Croatian society. There are only those who want Croatia to become the state as described and written in the Croatian Constitution and those who wish for a country that was defeated in '45. Lora Vidovic did not run away from describing such a situation and confronting it. The tragic fact is that, unfortunately, she was left alone very often in her efforts. I hope that the fact that we haven't discussed her reports is not a message to the new staff attorney to stand where Laura Vidovic didn't get to finish her job, but only because we didn't give her the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38559	And finally, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, will now be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Tomašević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38560	Thank you. So I see that there has been even more redistribution between these and that these colleagues who have somehow turned the whole debate into the evaluation of the work of Attorney General Laura Vidovic and not so much in the selection of future attorneys, are no longer here but would still like to say some things about it, since our club's position is clear in this sense that we are somehow voting for continuity and means that the deputy current attorney general Tena Simonović Einwalter is actually becoming a future attorney. So I'm just going to say one thing, so and I totally agree with the whole opposition, I really don't see any reason that since 2017 there's actually been no report on the work of the Ombudsman in the Croatian Parliament, and as far as I know, I think that only once or perhaps twice in the history of the public defender has failed a report, it's down to 2015 in the Croatian Parliament, HDZ has just voted against this female lawyer Laura Vidovic and her report, and I think that Most was in agreement if I'm not mistaken, and it's mostly gone down and it's quite problematic because, as you know, when Bauk fell and what his colleague said, when the lawyer's report fell, it opens up then and actually a shift space. So from that perspective, I really don't see a reason why we didn't discuss it unless in this way we wanted to avoid voting on that report, which would actually open up a shift space. I will remind some colleagues and colleagues, in the last 8 years, 40,000 citizens have spoken to the office, handled 25,000 cases and over 1,000 recommendations were addressed to the Assembly, but we obviously did not have the right, we did not have the opportunity to discuss, and this is the problem of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the chairman or the ruling majority, which was not put on the agenda. What I will remember is that the mandate of attorney general Laura Vidovic is certainly the human rights of the second and third generations, and I think it is finally good that the institution of the attorney general began to deal more seriously with these human rights, and I expect also from the new attorney general to start with those same rates. Especially the human rights of the second generation, the social meanings of rights, regarding you will also be remembered for the regulation of the Agency for the collection of claims. Just after that moratorium pointed out about the performance, it was then that the Ombudsman or the office reported and warned that we were one of the few countries in the EU that still did not regulate the work of the Agency for the collection of claims and that this is expected from the new Executive Law, unfortunately, we are still expecting these situations, and these are the situations that the report in the debate in the Croatian Parliament would then be reminded of the ruling majority which was not done and needed to improve the position of the human rights of this second generation. Also, around labour rights, what I remember, when a dead-cold entrepreneur on public television said he would cut wages to his workers if they ended up self-insulating. Do you remember that situation? 10% will cut wages if they end up self-insulating because they're responsible if they were in contact with someone who has a coronary virus. After that show, the office just reacted, not based on citizens' applications, but on what they actually saw on public television. So these are means of labour rights, they're social rights, but they're also third-generation rights, they're rights, environmental rights, and I remember very well, let's say some round tables organized by the Attorney General's Office on Water Rights. I remember from the perspective of the inaccessibility of water supply still for a large number of citizens in Croatia, which is inadmissible in the 21st century, from the perspective and economic inaccessibility of water, which is why some countries have even certain cubes that are free of charge for all citizens, which means a certain amount of drinking water cubicity since it is the UN in 2010. declared the right to water as one of the human rights that was not in the Declaration of Human Rights in the 40s. So that's some of the things I'm going to remember this mandate by, and I'd like in that sense that the Office of the Attorney General is not only concerned with those human rights of the first generation, meaning political freedoms and rights, but also with these human rights of the second and third generations, means social rights, labour rights, health environment rights, water rights, information rights and many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-10-0.u38561	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And for today, we will finish our work, and we will continue it tomorrow at 9.30, the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the World Meteorological Organisation on Legal Status and Action of the Office for Projects of the World Meteorological Organisation in the Republic of Croatia, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 119. Have a good evening. SESSION INTERNED AT 19:01 A.M. Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of the SDP, according to the respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra, please.
