ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27194	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to suggest that you supplement the agenda of the 6th session according to article. Article 226(2) It's a code of procedure with six new points. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. The second paragraph of paragraph 4 of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda was not made, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 6th session. Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of whom the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27274	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. This is a real story about a place without which life for a hundred families with severely ill children would be unimaginable. This is the story of the Upper Bistra Special Hospital, a hospital for chronic childhood diseases that has been functioning since 1969. The hospital treats children from birth to 18 years of age who suffer from chronic illnesses or diseases whose course of treatment is extremely long. It is mainly central nervous system disease, endocrine or metabolic disorders, various syndromes and other severe illnesses, unfortunately without a prognosis for healing. Most children staying in the hospital have no chance of proper treatment in their own families. They don't even have 70% parental care. Hospital capacity is 110 beds. Although the hospital is almost equal to how many small patients are available to professional health care professionals, doctors, defecologists and nurses, it is happy to receive volunteers who have been coming and working with children for many years. Volunteering motives can be different, we often hear volunteering increase the feeling of life's pleasure, volunteers are on average happier people. These include all those who find themselves in social well-being activities. Employees and volunteers do their job as an invitation. Consciously and responsibly. The task of society is to provide children with chronic diseases at the Special Hospital Gornja Bistra in Zagreb County with maximum care and no dignity. And why am I saying this? Because the Special Hospital for chronic diseases of children's age Gornja Bistra is located in the 1773 Oršić Castle. In an area that is completely inadequate for the accommodation of patients, these are more than just gravely ill children, children in themselves as vulnerable groups. Even if that space were properly restored, it would be difficult to meet the standards that such children need. After that, I will be back chronologically in 2015. The agreement was then concluded on the construction of a new hospital in Bistra, on the one hand the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Culture, the Municipality of Bistra, Zagreb County and of course the hospital. With this agreement, everyone has made commitments, and everyone has committed themselves, we're going to get a new hospital for these most difficult and youngest patients. The Ministry of Culture will provide land, Zagreb County and Bistra to bring together spatial-planned documentation, Zagreb County will prepare the production of project documentation, preferably providing funds for the construction of EU funds by the Ministry of Health. 4 years later, it's 2019. In 2019, 4 years later, the country donated about a million kuna worth of land. The plot plans to organize the park, build a playground, everything that needs to be done. A project worth almost 70 million kunas. But then, after that, nothing again, we arrive in 2020. What is repeated is the convenient visit of the hospital by politicians in all these years, most often ahead of the holidays, Christmas or ahead of some elections and children again nothing. Still poor working conditions of medical staff in the hospital, no elevators, lack of adequate space, 104 children are located in only a few rooms, 12 of them in rooms. And we get to December 2020, what happened? There's been an earthquake. An earthquake that marred the hospital statistics or a 18th - century castle. There was significant damage, 45 patients were transferred to Naphthalan Hospital, and a portion of the staff was moved. At this point in the Clear Hospital in a building that has a yellow mark, there are still a large number of children who cannot be transported to safer places. Thank you very much to the good people who care about these children, thank you very much to the donors, but the big question of the Republic of Croatia, the big question to Prime Minister Plenkovic, when will we restore our dignity to these children and build a new hospital?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27334	Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will speak the esteemed representative Marko Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27335	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The European Commission for Travel during January of this year collected data on short-term travel plans from 10 countries in Europe and issued a 5th-a-row survey entitled Monitoring of attitudes towards a domestic and intra-European journey, which shows an increase in interest in travel over the next 6 months. compared to past research and decline of interest to visit Croatia. 41% of respondents plan to travel to some of the EU countries, 35% choose to travel within their homeland, and most of them, exactly 64% will travel tourism. Europeans, 18% of them, are eager for the sun and beaches from which we thank God, Croatia has progress but what we do not have is preparation for the upcoming season, or we do not have a pre-season that has been stalking the tenant and all other related activities that have lived since the tourist season. And yesterday's announced suspension of post-preservation fees has led to exactly what Croatian sovereigns have been warning all along, and these have been layoffs to workers in the catering and tourist sectors. Small hotelers have already announced firing employees on the first day of March when fees stop and believe me, it is only one segment of the private sector that will be forced to send its workers to the stock market. Privates who have received post-preservation fees cannot start their business overnight. The private sector is not a light switch that turns on and off at the will of the headquarters and Croatian government. And that's what worries the most. The fact that the Croatian government obviously does not understand how the private sector works without talking about the withdrawal of 24 billion euros that were to be used for the country's recovery and which, in all likelihood, will end up in the public sector by 90% of that money. But let's go back to the topic of tourism where there is a clear incompetence and styphic activity of all governments to this day, including this one. What is clear is the disorganization and lack of tourism strategy, which is evident from the fact that more than 60% of the night is achieved only in 3 months. all year long. This percentage is a clear indication that Croatia has nothing to offer tourists except sun and beaches, or it would be more accurate to say that our authority is unable to make a concrete strategy for extending the tourist season that we once again welcome without a clear plan and strategy. And not only that, we welcome it with the burden of all measures of the government and the headquarters that have mutilated Croatian entrepreneurship. The tourist season is at our door and in order to facilitate small tenants, Croatian sovereigns have come forward with concrete amendments to the General Tax Act and the Tourist Tax Act which we want to help private renters. We appeal to the Government to immediately and by a hasty procedure in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, our proposals amending the law in order to facilitate the business of Croatian tenants. We ask for a reduction in the tax burden that must be proportionate to the fall in traffic and the automatic release of the payment of the annual flat-rate tourist tax in case of special circumstances. When the traffic drop is greater than 50% compared to 2019, the government released half of the fees for residence tax and a quarter of the fees for flat-rate tax last tourist season by changing private renter's rules. We believe that those who do not work and who do not have nights should not pay taxes, but only in Croatia is it possible that non-business renters must pay taxes. We expect President Gordan Jandrokovic to address these laws as soon as possible. There is no reason to wait, the tenants must now know whether they will be able to feed their families from their activities next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27449	And now we'd be going as we've announced to make a statement on behalf of the representatives' clubs and independent representatives. First, on behalf of the club of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27450	Thank you very much. Your Honor, since we are talking about agricultural production today, I believe we are obliged to present some concrete indicators. Therefore, Croatia still has a decline in agricultural production back in the last 5 years, so it is a percentage of 26% while other countries in the EU are growing. The value of agricultural production in the EU has dropped by about 5 billion kuna. The negative external trade balance is 37% and I will start from 2012 when it was 731 million euros and 2018. 1.4 billion euros. In particular, the negative balance is felt in the livestock sector, so we are talking about live animals, milk, meat, meat products, dairy products, eggs. It's a 72% percentage. So since 2012. EUR 268 million, 2018 460 million euros. In addition to the negative balance in livestock, according to the latest data from EUROSTAT, it is evident that the most vulnerable sectors of the cattle sector are affected. There's a drop in the number of cattle, so 8.2% and the number of cows is 9.3%. In short, the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia in a cumulative statement has reduced the total GDP achieved, so we are constantly among the first in the EU on a negative contribution. We have just come up with the latest data from the State Statistics Institute, which says that the decline of GDP in Croatia for 2020 was a record 8.4%. In accordance with the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia shall ensure that the Republic of Croatia is fully aware of the need for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU in accordance with Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning According to the Agency for Payments in Agriculture and Rural Development, the Republic of Croatia paid up to 80% of the possible amount each year. We are aware that the Republic of Croatia has no obligation to pay the full amount but by not paying the full amount that it has been made possible under the contract, our agricultural producers are placed in an unfavourable position compared to their colleagues in other countries. The correlation between the unpaid incentives and the decline in production is evident, and this way I am giving a clear appeal for the payment of a full envelope for each year, since the entry into the EU so far. I believe that by denying rights, the Republic of Croatia has damaged agricultural producers and is obliged to take urgent steps so that this negative trend does not continue. Emergency steps include full payment of incentives but also clearly defined policies to support production. Production support must cover clearly targeted legislation rather than raising standards and conditions for production, processing and marketing. Production support also means the assignment of state agricultural land to those who feed cattle, who keep the rural area. And I'm going to repeat one key sentence from which we can all learn a lot together. So agriculture must be the most important element of the Croatian economy, economic policy on the one hand must ensure the conditions in which agricultural production is paid and ensure the construction of infrastructure for the development of modern agriculture. It is a sector that can help Croatia out of the economic crisis as quickly and cheapest as possible. Upgrading with the processing industry and tourism should be the basis for the sustainability of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27522	The next club will be that representative of the Centre and GLAS and will speak to the respected representative Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27523	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As if I'd made a deal with Honorable Representative Bushim, I've kind of conjectured this presentation as a comment of the week. So, the owner of the cafe in Rijeka has sent a political message, it is indeed a bit unusual and rarely seen in these areas because we are not used to a small man, an individual publicly exposing himself against an all-powerful party. Commenting on the measures, the long-term closure of the cafe, the man wrote that his bar members and supporters of the party in power are not welcome. Unlike the letters of a woman beaten by a party colleague, this status on Facebook has been conveyed to the prime minister's attention and the show has begun. So we have heard no less or less that it is a hate speech comparable to fascism and persecution of Jews. It's real that a man doesn't believe his ears. The critical status towards the government and the party holding in its hands all the levers of power and now with the headquarters and the paralegals by an ordinary citizen on Facebook, Prime Minister Plenkovic equated it with the Holocaust, as the people would say, definitely took it. Such a comparison in equal proportions, it's as stupid as rude and untasteful. And after that, the prime minister should apologize to all those who were truly vulnerable as a group being exposed to persecution and hate speech and those in this country were and still have a lot too much. Political criticism of the authorities is not hate speech, that someone has decided to become HDZ, SDP, GLAS or member of any other party, is neither our nationality nor our religion nor our gender nor our age or our sexual orientation, it is our political choice that we have made as adults and its consequences we must deal with. And those who chose another party in this country, not HDZ, have been dealing with it for about 30 years. For 30 years, we have watched from the affair to the affair mostly members of that party steal our country, from conversion and privatisation, from Tudjman's 200 families, to today, from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, from Oroslavje to Požega and everywhere in between. We hear you're not a good Croat or you're not a Croat at all if you don't agree with what HDZ has to say. Every institution in this country from the lowest local to the highest state, under HDZ's rule, has turned into its cartoon. We listened and read the worst messages and threats if we dared to criticize the party after the party. All 30 years, we've been looking at job competitions, people who show up and those jobs are already booked. The state government's reaction to one status on Facebook shows better than anything that power has strayed from its path. The prime minister was so angry with that fascism as he said, that I thought he'd go dangerously into calculation and go to war or at least ban fascist greetings while we were on the subject, but the joke aside, there was nothing. Dear HDZ colleagues, critics and harsh ones, were and will be. And when you're in power, that's what you expected, but if suddenly when you came to your desk, you stopped liking the porridge you cooked yourself, then you'd have to change the recipe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27524	Thank you. That's what we're done with working for today. We will continue to work on March 3rd, on Wednesday at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Obligatory Health Insurance and Health Protection of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 116. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 13.25 p.m. Thank you, the next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ and the Honorable Representative Zdravka Busic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to speak a few words today about a subject that's been very busy this week. This week we're actually witnessing an unusual way of supporting freedom, freedom, I mean freedom of speech. You'll find that very easy to conclude. It's hard sometimes, so I'd say, it's hard to pull that pretty much, I'd say a thin line that shares hate speech with freedom of expression. And no matter how someone defines and pulls this line, I hope you agree with me that somehow we all feel inside ourselves where that line is. I really think because through life we always feel it, feel it, and know exactly where it is when I hurt someone, when I talk and look at another man in another way, and when I say words or looks or so on. By speaking to the bodies, we say something else. We have had the opportunity to read how some communication experts say that this cannot happen this last week, cannot be considered a hate speech and that this expression of opinion is not discriminatory at its core and in its classical meaning of that concept. They see it as some freedom of speech in the form of a kind of satirical criticism of the authorities. We could talk about satirical and theaters that we all love to watch, and that make us laugh but in this case, I wouldn't say that. While some see it as discrimination, others consider it freedom of speech and there is this subjective perception of freedom of expression and of hate speech. Many circumstances affect the spread of speech, such speech, hate speech. That's why even globally felt the need to fight that kind of speech to protect that fundamental human rights, so let me just say a few words on the subject. Freedom of gathering and association at all levels, especially when it comes to politics and civil issues, is one of the fundamental EU rights under the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, which defines art. 12. and fundamental freedoms regulated by the UN General Declaration on Human Rights and that is defined by Article. 20, as well as the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, which is defined by Article 20 of the Treaty on Civil and Political Rights. 21 and 22 and also other international mechanisms. Unfortunately, for the last few days, we have witnessed attacks that are just contrary to the international standards and recommendations that I have just quoted for the protection of human rights, including the right to free assembly and association. For example, a UN special rapporteur on the right to peaceful gathering and association, Clement Voule, presented a report on the challenges of the digital age, this digital era at the 41st session of the UN Human Rights Council in June 2019, which is only worth a couple, here in the absence of time, just a few words to say. There's not much left. In his recommendation in private companies, a special rapporteur pointed out that companies should fulfil their responsibilities in respecting internationally accepted human rights, including the right to freedom of peace gathering and association, by taking all necessary and legal measures to ensure that those companies do not cause, contribute or become complicit in violating those rights. I hope so. I don't want any more because I have something else to say, so... I won't take any more time [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll carry on next time. [[Thank you, yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27691	The next club of representatives will be that Mosta in the name of which the respected representative Nino Rasdic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27692	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I will use this time to get to know the Croatian public with the fruits of what Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic defined as Croatia's greatest diplomatic success in candidates for international institutions and to confirm Croatia's strong foreign policy position today. It is about the election of former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Marija Pejcinovic Buric as EU Council Secretary-General. The media followed every step of the election, so we were informed that the former minister was paying 300,000 euros a year, and all of this was made possible by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who, I quote, was able to write a letter of support to Marija Pejcinovic Buric in which they invited all EPS members to vote her. Sama Pejcinović Buric, after the elections, claimed that Croatia is a great international recognition and an excellent opportunity for promotion and that this success simultaneously meets and commits it. So far, I have not noticed any analysis that would shed light on Croatia's concrete choice of Pejcinović Buric. Soon after the elections, media lost interest in her and the EU Council. I wonder if we have been able to confirm the then prominent foreign policy position of Croatia for almost 2 years since its election, whether we have made an excellent promotion or all of this was just another PR stunt. If not, how we used the choice of Pejcinović Buric strategically to achieve foreign policy goals. My colleagues and colleagues, I have reason to suspect in favour of the election of the former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs as the Secretary-General of the EU Council. Moreover, I think not only that choice is in vain, but I regret the fact that the entire diplomatic network has shut down engines and taps in place for at least half a year so that almost all diplomats lobby for the highly paid function of Marija Pejcinović Buric. I'm going to ask a more clear question. What do we have? Not that we have nothing but today we have direct damage to vital Croatian interests. We have never been more aggressive in the EU Council that advocates abolishing the consistency of the people in BiH, which is a constitutional category. We have a clear message from an institution headed by Marija Pejcinović Buric, a recent Minister of Plenkovic and right-hand woman in the government, according to which I quote, it is time for BiH to move on to a different modern system, in which there is no discrimination and which is not based on constitutional peoples. These are the words of a third-rate diplomat, Christophe Poirel, head of the EU Council's Human Rights Administration after a 5-day virtual visit to BiH. His views were enthusiastically conveyed by the Bosniak media, and another Bosniak representative in the BiH presidency, Zeljko Komsic, said it was sleazy that Poirel's words had historical significance and that they meant nothing more than it was time for the establishment of a civil state. My colleagues and colleagues, this is a classic example of how third-rate bureaucrats of just organizations create dissension between nations and countries. The statement raised tensions between Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs in BiH, while Bosniak summits respond because they can instrumentise it in favour, so-called. civil states, which would be nothing more than a majority Muslim state, mean political disappearance for Croats. We do not know which of the masses of facelessly elected bureaucrats wrote to Poirot such senseless and dangerous views, which undermine BiH's constitutional order, and the Constitution of the country is Annex IV of the Dayton Peace Agreement that ended the war and any unilateral excavation of it cannot be called otherwise than a criminal policy. What we know is that at the head of the organization he represented during the virtual visit to our above list, the result of our greatest diplomatic success, the confirmation of Croatia's strong foreign policy position, Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric and that her chief adviser in the organisation is former Croatian Ambassador and Assistant Minister Miroslav Papa, a lawyer from Plenkovic's generation. Poirel argues that he has come, quote, a new period, a new era for BiH, in which the system should not be based on constitutional peoples. It is obvious that Pejcinović Buric and Papa agree with this view because how else to describe the fact that the head and her adviser in the organisation allow such dangerous political views and instructions from the EU Council to the harm of Croats in BiH. Instead of marking BiH as one of its priorities, she has diplomatically washed it with a clear message that no document relating to BiH can come out unless her office passes, she and her advisor are like all of us... handed over to bureaucratic appliances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only did they surrender to them, but they allow them to be subordinated to them... The EU Council publishes flammable statements and documents to the detriment of its own people, Croats in BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is scandalous for every conviction, and I hope that the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be able to respond adequately and that, in the future, we will not run for people who directly or indirectly bless harmful documents and allow It's about their people's heads. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27778	The next club of representatives will be the HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u27779	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Retired people in Croatia are really poor. We hear it from all sides and all the media. And? And? And everything stays the same. They were not poor because they had worked for a few years, but the employers paid them little; the minimum wage was paid, and some bonuses, and a little on their hands, and they were struck by an unfavourable formula of reconciliation, and the excess in the pension system, so those who paid a little. They say people come back, they pay everything, and they say they ask you where your youth was. That's the youth others have shaped for us. Is it the pensioner's fault that he got hit or the state let him work on black, work for 10 hours and book 8 and pay 8? That people agree to anything to have a job like that? Those who are guilty of bankruptcy, of privatisation, of workers' surpluses, of early retirements of those who never wanted it? Yes, these are my dear, characteristic of the world of work in Croatia and in the last 30 years, and those who are now retired, all 30 years are numbered and bring them regular minimum pensions. It's 70 kn per year, 30 years is 2100 kn, 35 is 2450 kn, 40 is 2800, so 40 years covers a little more than the poverty line if it's not premature. When you look at statistics, without the work of international contracts, you get 520,000 pensions below the poverty line. Then why talk about 800,000, a million poverty, half a million people isn't enough tragedy for you? All those who do this, double damage, reduce the accident of 500,000 people because they are told that they are not enough to help and on the other hand, they are taking over any attempt to negotiate a pension law or social measure because they will say too many. Is everyone just as poor? How many do you really live with less than 2700 kuna? Do they live in retirement homes as well? How many additional incomes are there? These are questions we don't have answers to right now. What we know for sure, about 200,000 family pensions in the zone is poverty and this is a very relevant data and therefore family pensions are the priority of the Croatian pension system in a European way. By solving family pensions, 50% of pensioners' poverty in Croatia are resolved, I say, if someone doesn't believe in this, I throw a glove in their faces, I ask for 6 months. Time, I'm saving my hands and you're gonna know the real truth where and how to intervene. Although that sounds like it from all these numbers, I'm not a cold bureaucrat. I've seen a lot of faces of poverty, injustice and human misery, and I care about it to make it right. You of my moaning, crying and exaggeration have nothing to do with it. I'm here to seek solutions and propose solutions, not government charity. I know it seems to you that those who appeal you out loud are fighting for you, but that's not the case. Isn't it enough for you to be kept talking to poor pensioners all the time, isn't that humiliating? That is what those who will sell you for a few dozen kunas say, and that every legitimate request made in this house where laws are passed, will greatly, greatly reduce in negotiations with the powerful. All for a moment of glory and a crumb of their own use. Oh, they're poor, poor people who sell the poor and raise themselves up, they're pathetic. And finally, to quote always hired colleague Dragica Trumbetash: “Drages of pensioners and pensioners, act as employers rather than beggars, demand what belongs to you.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36547	Dear MPs and MPs, before we move on to today's debate, the Committee on Agriculture, proposed on the basis of Article. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a united debate on today's two points. These are: - Proposal for a Law on official controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 98 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 97 Do you agree with this proposal? Here, I think we're in agreement. Since there are no objections to these laws, we will conduct therefore a united debate. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Minister of Agriculture Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36548	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you the proposals for two laws, the Law on Official Controls and other official activities implemented in accordance with the rules on food, animal food, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection and the laws on amendments to the Veterinary Act. The law on official controls shall ensure that the EU Regulation is implemented. 625 of 2017 which is fully binding and which is directly applicable in all EU Member States since 14 December 2019. Currently, in force in the Republic of Croatia, the law on official controls carried out in accordance with the rules on food, feed, animal health and animal welfare adopted in 2013 with the aim of ensuring that Regulation 882 of the 2004 Parliament and of the Council on official controls referred to in Regulation (EU) 2017 in force since the end of 2019 has been put out of force. In relation to the existing law on official controls, this bill extends to the health of plants and plant protection products and the issue of competence of individual bodies of the State administration, in particular regarding the establishment of a State Inspectorate and the separation of inspections in the field of food, feed, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health, within which those inspections carried out official controls prior to the establishment of the State Inspectorate. The national reform programme for 2018 set out measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment, measure 4.1 and sub-measure 4.1.1.1, and with regard to the sub-uniting of economic inspections as a basis for more effective performance of official controls on the basis of which the inspectorate has since 1 April 2019 pooled inspections carried out by official controls carried out by the various authorities of the state administration. The proposed law establishes a single legal framework for integrated access to the organisation, coordination and implementation of official controls throughout the agricultural and food chain. Premises are created for the professional, efficient and rational exercise of official controls and other official activities ensuring the application of rules on food and food for animals, rules, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection with a view to ensuring a high level of human health, animal and plant health and animal welfare, as well as the continued functioning and security of the food safety system. The law lays down the competent authorities for all areas covered by Regulation 625 of 2017 and their tasks relating to the organisation, coordination, implementation of official controls and other official activities, the financing of official controls, methods of administrative assistance and cooperation, communication and reporting, border controls, control points, other border crossings and customs posts for imports, fees and fees for official controls, the arrangements of the official and reference laboratories, the establishment of a computer information system for the management of information and data relating to official controls and the infringement provisions. This proposal for a law includes official controls to verify compliance with the established rules for the application of legislation in the following areas: food and food safety, completeness and health regularity of food at each stage of production, processing and distribution including rules aimed at protecting the interests of consumers, information for consumers and the production and use of materials and objects that come into contact with food, deliberate introduction into the environment of GMOs for the purpose of food and feed production, animal food and food safety at each stage of production, processing and distribution of such food and feed, animal health requirements, the prevention of risks to human health and animal health resulting from animal by-products of animal origin and their introduction to the minimum possible measure, animal welfare requirements, protection measures against plant health, requirements for the placing on the market and use of plant protection products and the use of plant protection products for the protection and protection of plant protection products for the protection of plant protection products and plant protection products as well as the protection of plant protection products for the protection of plant protection and the use of plant protection of plant protection products and plant protection of plant protection products and plant protection and plant protection and plant protection of plant protection and plant protection products and plant protection of plant protection of plant protection products for use, as of plant protection and plant protection products and plant protection and plant protection of plant protection of plant protection and plant protection and plant protection, as of plant protection and plant protection and plant protection and plant protection, as of plant protection, as of plant protection, as of plant protection and plant protection and plant protection and plant protection and plant protection and plant protection and plant protection and veterinary products for use. The proposed law provides that competent authorities acting in the public interest have adequate resources and equipment and guarantee impartiality and professionality. The competent authorities should ensure the quality, consistency and effectiveness of official controls. For this purpose, the law ensures that official controls are carried out on the basis of written documented procedures and mechanisms for the permanent verification of the effectiveness of their own activities and the taking of corrective measures when deficiencies are identified. The competent authorities for the implementation of this law as well as other regulations governing the areas of official controls defined by the draft law shall be the State Inspectorate, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Health. Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the Croatian Forest Institute. Furthermore, the State Inspectorate is working with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Customs and the Ministry of Police of the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior in the conduct of official controls on animals and goods entering the EU. The competent authorities shall entrust some of their tasks to other bodies in accordance with appropriate conditions to ensure that impartiality, quality and consistency of official controls and other official activities are maintained. To that end, the law enables certain tasks of official controls and other official activities to be entrusted to delegated bodies and the authorisation of natural persons to carry out official activities as professional business of public interest in accordance with the applicable Regulation, specific regulations in the field of veterinary and agriculture and the State Administration System Act. For the first time in the system of carrying out other official activities as a professional of public interest, it introduces the possibility of trusting the same natural persons. In relation to jurisdiction, to entrust certain tasks, the same proposal for a law is made possible by the State Inspectorate and the Ministry of Agriculture in accordance with specific rules in the field of veterinary and agricultural matters. The law regulates the system of official and reference laboratories in such a way as to ensure that the provisions of the Regulation on official controls on laboratories are implemented under the same conditions for all laboratories involved in the implementation of the analysis in all areas of application. 1st paragraph 2. The regulations on official controls shall be based on the competent authorities to lay down the rules for the purpose of making it possible to implement the Regulation on official controls closer. In order to ensure the continued availability of adequate and financial resources for the relevant staff and equipment of the competent authorities carrying out official controls and other official activities and to reduce the dependence of the system of official controls in public finances, the competent authorities shall charge fees and pay compensations for covering the costs incurred in carrying out the official controls of certain entities. To that end, the law lays down the competent authorities for the financing of official controls and other official activities and closes the issue of collecting fees and fees. In order to carry out effective official controls and other official activities, it is important that the competent authorities in the Member States and the Commission can rapidly and effectively exchange information and information relating to official activities or their results. To that end, it was necessary to lay down by law the competent authorities in charge of a particular Commission information system and to ensure that all relevant existing information systems are integrated and upgraded as appropriate. This proposal provides for infringement provisions on all areas of application in accordance with the new organisation of inspection services in the areas concerned and all competent authorities involved in the implementation of this law, which are defined as effective, dissuasive and proportionate sanctions whose weight takes into account possible damage to human health which may be caused by infringements, including cases where entities do not cooperate during official controls and where false or misleading officials are produced or used certificates or certificates or certificates and in cases of breach of the rules committed by fraud or misleading practices. This law also confers powers on ministers and the Chief State Inspector for the adoption of implementing rules for the purpose of laying down detailed provisions for the implementation of this law, which provides for an appropriate transitional period. The transitional period of 3 m is also foreseen. to take over certain transactions from the Ministry of Agriculture relating to the entrustment of certain tasks to delegated bodies and natural persons as well as their financing taken over by the State Inspectorate. The changes adopted by the Official Control Regulation have also been reflected in the organisation of the veterinary service and the official controls carried out by it, bringing further challenge to the separation of the veterinary inspection from the vertical structure of the veterinary service and its annexation to the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia which took place in 2019. In view of the role and importance of the veterinary service from official controls on food and food for animals, animal health and welfare, the necessary and adaptations of the veterinary law contained in this proposal and the main amendments proposed by the Law on Veterinary Use are as follows: the EU list of legislation with which the Veterinary Act is harmonised, the terminology is aligned with the Regulation and is defined as being delegated bodies and official certification bodies. This Regulation, in addition to the area of delegation of official controls, is also the area of delegation of other official activities, which are technical matters of particular public interest, such as vaccination or sampling for the purpose of implementing official programmes, and to that end the term of the delegated bodies which also include legal persons who are delegated to the business of official controls, as well as those legal persons who are delegated to the business of other official activities. Croatia has been benefiting from the possibility of delegation in veterinary work for many years, and these changes are in fact of a purely termological nature. The Veterinary Act excludes provisions relating to import controls, since they are defined by the Law on Official Controls. The competent authority for the delegation of official controls and other official activities to veterinary organisations shall be amended in such a way that, instead of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Authority in charge of the veterinary field, the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia has now. This is an important change in the structure of a national veterinary service created as a result of the principle that jobs can only be delegated to the body having the original competence to carry out those tasks. By issuing the veterinary inspection and the composition of the management organisation of the Ministry of Agriculture responsible for the veterinary and accession of the DIRH, it has become the State Inspectorate and it is necessary, accordingly, to amend the jurisdiction to entrust the delegation of official controls tasks. Provisions governing the approval and registration of facilities in the animal food business are deleted, as they are governed by the Law on Official Controls. It is possible to entrust certain business activities of other official activities such as sampling within the national programme for the control of infectious animal diseases or the national programme of monitoring of residuals of antimicrobial substances, hormones, pesticides, health care doctors, as natural persons. For the first time in Croatia, the regulation also enables businesses of official control of natural persons, which would be useful as an alternative option for certain areas, e.g. for islands where there is no veterinary organisations, i.e. legal persons interested in carrying out official controls, due to a insufficient economic basis for labour and high accreditation costs. In some of these areas, there are also veterinary practices which could be interesting, and which would be a more economical solution to the system of official controls. This option will be included in the Veterinary Act as soon as possible in the Law on the System of State Administration which currently provides for the provision of State Administration's affairs to legal persons. Provisions on the financing of delegated operations of official controls and other official activities are hereby repealed as this substance is regulated by the Official Control Act. Provisions shall be reintroduced allowing veterinary inspectors to make a solution to the elimination of deficiencies, as the first measure in the established non-compliance with the exercise of inspection supervision. The introduction of a legal basis allowing veterinary inspectors to adopt a prohibition measure on the issue of a certificate to all entities which have not lodged fees for operations certified within 60 days from the date of issue of the invoice and until the date of payment of the fee, shall be analogous to sanctions already in force for entities which do not comply in the same way with the fees for official controls. The conditions for the appointment and the tasks of an authorised veterinarian shall be redefined in accordance with the new opportunities for the supply of business, as well as the needs of the market. Instead of the previous 2 years in the profession, to appoint an authorised veterinarian, the condition becomes minimum 6 months of work in the profession. In fact, veterinary employers have pointed out the problem of lack of a doctor’s veterinary medicine with at least 2 years’ experience in the profession on the market, primarily because of their outflow to Western Europe, but also because of the increased interest of veterinarians to work in small practice. Following the expressed need for the early involvement of young veterinarians in the implementation of the programme for which authorisation is required, and respecting the fact that from the time of the introduction of the conditions of 2 years of experience for obtaining the authorisation, the curriculum of the Veterinary Faculty has now been reduced to 6 months of professional experience. It shall be possible to apply minor measures to sanction authorised veterinarians in the event of minor non-compliance in the performance of the tasks entrusted. Until now, in the Veterinary Act, where irregularities in the work of an authorised veterinarian have been identified, there has been a legal basis exclusively for the abolition of the authorisation, it has been shown in practice that there is a need for minor measures, such as a warning, when it comes to minor irregularities in work, or the need for temporary suspension during the course of the proceedings, either before the competent authority, whether before the Croatian Veterinary Chamber or before the court. Infringement provisions are updated with these amended normative provisions, as well as EU regulations which entered into force after the adoption of the last Veterinary Act in 2018, which regulate the following areas, the identification document for equidae, non-commercial use of pet animals and the control of trihinosis. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the HS, the honourable ladies of the parliamentary representative and the gentlemen of the parliamentary deputies, as it is about extremely important laws that primarily ensure the safety of food and health of people, I call on you to consider them and I have no doubt that a quality and focused debate will further contribute to better understanding and improvement of the proposed text. To your questions raised during the debate, we will give further clarifications and answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36549	Thank you very much. We've got, uh, here, I guess we've got a request for a break. The Honorable Representative... [[Intruder: Thank you, dear...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36550	...Vice President. We have been having discussions here these days about the situation in Croatian livestock, Croatian agriculture, and it is necessary that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36551	You're looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36552	I'm looking for a break. Well, I'll say, take it easy. [[So say it.]] Easy, don't be impatient. [[Intruder: Good, not, so it can't be slow.]] Well, I'll say, take it easy. [[Intruder: When you raise your hand, you must say why.]] I'm on my way. So I am looking for a break on behalf of the club to warn that all these laws and today those we are discussing do not actually solve the situation in Croatian livestock, in Croatian agriculture. We warned that the production of cow's milk in 2016 was 489 646 tonnes, and in 2019 it fell to 435 606 tonnes, 12% less. Sugartail 2017 1,300 000 tonnes, 2019. 700,000 tons, 46% less. This is the result of the minister's ministry, which was before that and the secretary of state, the situation in agriculture is catastrophic, There is no movement and there are MPs here, it was one general assessment of the opposition, meaning it was the worst minister ever in the history of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about agriculture. [[Intruder: Lies.]] So it's not just a problem. We have this morning's announcement that this national economic plan, that 80% or more of the funds will go to the public sector instead of going to our entrepreneurs, craftsmen, our farmers. We're going to get up hard here in HS, we're going to stop lurking the door of a fat geese, we're done making love to your staff, we're done protecting HGK and HOK, and we've had a debate here tonight until 1 o'clock. We won't let you do that. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36553	Thank you very much. Uh, anyone else want a break maybe? If not, then we will proceed in accordance with the article. 239b immediately with work, so let's go to replicas. We have the first respected representatives of Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36554	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you have stated that for the appointment of an authorised veterinarian, the deadline will be reduced from 2 years to 6 months. You stated that there is a shortage of veterinarians, and don't you think that a period of 6 months of working experience will contribute even more to the chaos that is currently under way? I must remind you that when you leave college for work, the traineeship lasts for a year. I'll give you another parallel. When you go as an authorised auditor, the minimum working hours are 3 years, and we are now introducing that only 6 months will be enough for a professional authorised veterinarian. I thought it was a law mistake, but I can see it's not now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36555	The reply of the Honored Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36556	Appointing candidates are now educated under a new programme of studies that is longer by one year and enriched by the content that enables wider competencies on the first day. The range of tasks of authorised veterinarians and the system of trust in veterinary organisations guarantees that the quality of the performance of the work will not be reduced, the labour market requires changes, it is a unique and harmonised attitude of the profession, science and the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36557	The next replica of the respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36558	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, research shows that a third of Croatian citizens do not understand the difference between "use up" and "best use up", I believe that there is still a lot of work to be done on education, so you have work to do on this issue because on the one hand you can consume food that is not healthy, and on the other hand you can throw away one that is still healthy. Now, when this devastating earthquake occurred, the whole of Croatia was united, huge amounts of food donated. I want to know who worked there in those hangars where it was collected, an assessment of the health and safety of food, which were guided by criteria, whether or not it was stored, or how long it took, and how much food the percentage was thrown into and at whose expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36559	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36560	I agree with the esteemed representative that further education is needed. A little over 2 years ago, the Ministry of Agriculture sought to point out existing differences to guides and additional campaigns, and there is also a need for additional education. As regards the storage of livestock food, which ensured the donation and continuity of production in the earthquake affected areas, expert services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Safety and the Management of Professional Support, i.e. the former Advisory Service, participated in the schedule, structures and supervision. 840 tons of food have been donated, some more than 720 tons of food so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36561	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Minister. The EU Commission's survey showed that 1/3 of the honey found on the EU market is falsified. The controls carried out by your services in Croatia, it is also a confirmed, similar situation in Croatia. I welcome the enhanced controls that you have introduced, what I am interested in, whether this law will provide additional instruments to establish reference laboratories so that we can analyze in more detail the quality of honey, but also other foods. Also, we remember the chicken fraud, the salmonella that appeared on the market, the shipments that came in, and it's known exactly what kind of traffickers, if we can say so, come to our market, I wonder if this law will create stronger mechanisms that, if there's any doubt about the health failure of the groceries that are coming to our market, to stop the shipment, to analyse, if the malfunction is established, to return and that the offenders are severely punished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36563	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36564	The Law on official controls and other official activities in the field of food and feed and animal health, animal welfare and health, herbs and plant protection products are more detailed procedures, confirms integrated access, detailed rules for both reference and authorised laboratories and will certainly contribute to a better system of official controls, supervision, delegation of functions, schedule of activities between competent authorities, such as the State Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health, the Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency and the Croatian Forest Institute, where the State Inspectorate cooperates with the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance when entering third markets. It certainly is, given the integration of existing rules into one law, the inclusion of all official controls, the promotion of official activities. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36565	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36566	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, so when there is no reference or official laboratory, then the sample will be sent to a laboratory that is qualified. You will decide, or resolute minister, which are the laboratories that will be able to perform analysis, testing or diagnosis. I'm interested in the next one. How many such laboratories do we have in the Republic of Croatia right now? What do they diagnose the rest of it for? What experience you have with these laboratories because it's one thing to prescribe a provision of laws and another thing is to really know what we have on the market and who is able to do it. Because if we have too few such laboratories on the market or something else, then we haven't done anything, then we've just moved from one to another and we haven't achieved what the law needs to achieve that we really have good analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36567	Thank you. The reply of the Honored Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36568	Thank you very much for asking. As far as we know, there are currently 30 authorized laboratories, reference laboratories,... that they are the laboratories of the Croatian Veterinary Institute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36569	The next replica is the respected representative of Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36570	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, why does Croatia regularly introduce more criteria for the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products through the regulations? Why don't we equate the conditions for producing our farmers with the conditions Europe requires of its producers and I'm also interested in what happened to coordinated action surveillance the way it used to be? Is it possible that a coordinated surveillance plan has been made during the year from the area of various inspections per group of products to be sold? And I note that, in this case, all products should be monitored, so also those of us but also those of us who come from the EU area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36571	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36572	I think it's about the flat-rate equalization, so I can check it out, I need details of exactly what products are related to. As regards actions and supervision, the system of official controls has been significantly improved in recent years, the number of samples has not been reduced, the system itself is more financially favourable for taxpayers and monitors, surveillance, cooperation with all authorised institutions now under several laws which are integrated into this Law on Official Controls and official activities is carried out very closely with precise risk analyses and all can be made available to Assembly representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36573	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36574	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Minister, surely you have highlighted the system of food security and consumer protection, we live in time and the entire EU, a large range of food, arrival, surely it is something that is very important. In order for this control to be at the highest maximum, for food to be kept safe for both humans and animals, in order to simply in this part everything that comes within Croatia, to be better controlled, it is certain that it is a prerequisite which is a prerequisite for the future to make this whole situation as high as possible so that this law would be in the best possible and that people are educated and that in one way the entire system can be controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36575	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36576	Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36577	The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, as you think united controls will now be drawn from the Ministry of Agriculture and placed at the State Inspectorate, achieve as you have said, more effectively, more professionally, more rationally, when in fact in accordance with Article, the proposal. 91st all officials and subsistence are being taken over, so resources and equipment, so you're just transferring officials from the Ministry of Agriculture to the State Inspectorate, here from one environment of the Ministry of Agriculture you're going to the State Inspectorate where the Chief State Inspector is a mining engineer? How do you think it's going to achieve itself more efficiently and professionally, is it just spilling into the hollow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36579	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36580	If the regulations improve, simplify, if reported transparently and the implementation takes place consistently, then it is always a matter of improvement, and then we can always stand behind our words. For a year and a half, we have been working hard and persistently coordinating with all the bodies that are now authorised by the existing regulations governing the control officer, and in this case, in Article. The 91st is a service related to the delegation of official controls, practically all other people have long been in the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36581	The next replica of Nikola Grumoje's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36582	Thank you. Dear Minister, you've been in the Ministry of Agriculture for a long time, so I'm going to ask you a few questions, or I'd ask you to deny me if any of what I've said is not true. Is it true that in your mandate to continuously increase the import of agricultural products, their processing? Is it true that agricultural land is therefore not being put into operation, that more and more of our young people from these rural areas are leaving Croatia? And is it true that for Croatian farmers, Croatian cattle have almost no improvement? Here, which one isn't true? So here's when we talk about production, I was talking about milk, this sugar tail and everything else, which is not true, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36583	The reply of the Honored Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36584	All that Agent Nikola Grmoy said was false, and now we're going to document it, but absolutely everything. Therefore, the imports of agricultural products are being imported in 2020. Reduced by slightly more than 7%, exports increased by slightly more than 5%, reducing the external trade balance deficit by approximately 26-27% and increasing the export coverage by imports from 63% to 72%. With regard to milk production in the last 8 months, it has been growing slightly on a continuous basis for the first time since the 7th year. and all these eight months including January's latest data are growing. With regard to agricultural production, it has increased from 17, from 17.9 billion kuna to 19,243 billion kuna, the largest growth since 2008, and other growth since then. economic accounts. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Related to sugar beet It is true that there were 700,000 tonnes in 2019, but it is [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] 860 in 2020. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36585	You're way out of time. My friend Grumo, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, what's been hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36586	Not a single claim I made and the number isn't false, and you can't call on a year where we've had closed borders and covid and show it as some big success for you at the Ministry of Agriculture. So, every number, respected minister, you didn't deny a single number, and you said I told the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36587	So, I'm based on an art. In 239, I give you a warning because it was a replica, you know it yourself. I beg you don't do this, you do it often, don't do it. ... To abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] The next replica of the esteemed representative of William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36588	Thank you. Dear Minister, importing plants as sensitive and dangerous as the best example is how our palm trees on the Adriatic, the red palm pipe and palm tree that came are supposed to come from Spain and Italy. I want to say that, in conversation with experts, of course they said, I can understand that there are really very precise and good articles there, Art. The 18th is very good, I have no objections, 7d, 11, 13th, so it doesn't turn out to be... However, Art. 19. I will only take one example, when importing into customs warehouses at the place of destination, regardless of the origin of the control, shall carry out agricultural inspection according to specific regulations in the field of plant protection products, and the documentation and identification checks for the import of consignors referred to in this paragraph shall be carried out by customs administration officers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the thing, it's not clear now. I'm trying to imagine that, but. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36589	Thank you. Before you answer, my colleague Grumo has re-injured the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured? On, to the presentation of fellow Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36590	Dear Vice President, you have injured Art. 33, after the first warning you immediately took my word from me. How come, where is he, where's the other note?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36591	Now, you read your own Rules of Procedure, and I am your foundation. In 240th century, I give notice by taking away the word until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36592	Well, you can't shut the truth, you can't shut the truth, you can't shut up, you can push me out, but the truth won't shut up that you ruined the Croatian village, Croatian agriculture, moved Slavonia and everything else here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36593	Comrade Thunderbolt, calm down and sit down. I'm sorry, Your Honor, Mr. Matula. Here you go, dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36594	I appreciate the question. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 19. I think it is point d., so when importing into customs warehouses at destination sites means when importing the consignors referred to in this paragraph are controlled by customs administration officers, this must be in accordance with other regulations. In this sense, imports are the entry of third-market shipments, not the EU. They are regularly marked by the entry, and imports here are considered shipments from third EU markets and there is a need for the responsibility of the representatives of the Ministry of Customs Administration in accordance with other applicable regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36595	The following replicas of the respected representative Ankica Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36596	Thank you. Dear Minister, as we are discussing today the laws relating to animal welfare, can you tell us all the measures and assistance you have realised or planned on the basis of animal welfare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36597	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36598	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Agriculture of different programmes, support, activities and acts aims to improve the welfare of animals, which is one of the most important topics and during discussions on the Council of Ministers responsible for Agriculture and Fisheries. Many are measures, programmes and support, improving legislative activity. But I will, thanks to this question, announce next week a significant increase in the animal welfare of measure 14, a multiple increase in the resources available so far that amounted to around 70 million kuna per year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36599	The next replicas of the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36600	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, in this bill of law, and in accordance with what you yourself have explained in your introduction, I see one systemic problem, which is in this section where individual tasks are given to delegated bodies and natural persons. First of all, in your presentation you didn't explain why it reached for such a practice, first thing. The second thing, in principle, is that the problem that the state does not know what public powers are to remain at the level of the state and public authorities, the other problem is that we have not been able to establish even in these public bodies the criteria of impartiality and professionalism, but very often with bodies, state bodies politically manipulate, persecuting opponents, and protecting our own, and now we are going to a lower level and we will give public authority to natural persons outside the system of state and public administration. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36601	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36602	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. The esteemed representative is not familiar with the system of delegation that has worked well and well in Croatia for years and the Croatian animal health and food safety system recognised at EU level, so we are the country that has the largest share of those co-financed from the EU compared to the total number of programmes. So the delegation is known to us, we have been doing this for years, and in this case it also enables natural persons because in certain specific, rural areas, islands, we cannot ensure, given the number of veterinarians, veterinary practices, adequate representation of legal persons and this becomes a problem. The provision is consistent with the profession, the Chamber, with all relevant veterinary organisations, where the Veterinary Faculty and the Croatian Veterinary Institute deliver numerous achievements at international level and educate veterinarians who can do so in any way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36603	Thank you. Representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36604	So he's hurt. 238, Your Honor, you said I wasn't familiar. You obviously didn't listen to my line and the contents of the question I asked you. I asked you for an explanation. Secondly, I am very familiar with the fact that I used to work as a lawyer and I know what the delegated bodies of natural persons think about our farmers, things that the bodies at EU level don't know about. They're looking at codes, numbers, extensive interpretations, and our people know a practice that is highly questionable and controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36605	So it's a typical abuse of the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm based on you. 239 says the warning. Thank you very much, Minister. Now we're going to a debate. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor before? Yeah. Honorable representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36606	Vice President of HS, ma'am. Secretary of State, ma'am. Directors, MPs and representatives. At its 10th session, held on 18 January 2021, the Committee on Agriculture discussed both of these laws. You have a detailed report on the Parliament's pages, I'll just look back at the main highlights. In the debate on the Veterinary Act, we discussed the establishment of a State Inspectorate in which all inspections in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, with the exception of fishing inspection, were placed under the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate, taking into account that animal health is an integral and indivisible part of the food safety system. As regards the division of competences, for the application of the European Regulation on official controls and other official activities, the debate is concerned that an integrated system of national veterinary services responsible for animal health and animal welfare and animal food and feed safety may be put into question. It also questioned the experiences and practices of other Member States in this regard. The proposer pointed out that this act will ensure adequate animal health care and food health, which is related to policies under discussion at Union level. The law was to be adapted to the European regulations and competences of the State Inspectorate in the section relating to the implementation of official controls. The veterinary faculty's curricula is enhanced so the combination of 6-month work experience and knowledge acquired during the study provides the basis for obtaining the status of authorised veterinarian. When it comes to the Law on Official Controls, investigations have been made on the controls and standards that were required to meet the food donated to users after the earthquake, the activities of official controls in cases of suspected entry and presence of medically incorrect food on the Croatian market and ways of punishing offenders. It is also asked about the development of frequency plans for the implementation of controls and monitoring plans, as well as about identified food fraud-related penalties, how to determine the prices of authorised veterinary organisations. The promoter replied that after the earthquake, all donated food met the standards, and the non-injurious food was safely removed. Also, civil protection has been responsible for the exercise of controls. The cost of veterinary services will be regulated by the rules to be adopted by the DIRH, following the entry into force of this Act. The control of consignments of food at customs premises and in the food chain and the implementation of official controls is planned on the basis of a risk assessment, and the alert system is an integral part of this proposal. The Republic of Croatia shall participate in all coordinated sampling plans for food fraud and for fraud activities prescribed criminal and criminal liability. On the basis of the debate held at our 10th session, the Committee has decided to propose conclusions to HS: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act is adopted; a proposal for a Law on Official Controls and other official activities implemented in accordance with the rules on food, feed, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection; and the observations and suggestions made in the debate are addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final proposal for one and another law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36607	Thank you. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, will be spoken by a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He loses his right to speak, and then he will speak on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club, the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36608	... esteemed colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm going to use a speech on this agenda point for two things. First of all, I would like to point out that I will support the proposal of the Veterinary Law or its amendments and additions that we are harmonising with the legal gains of the EU and secondly, I would also like to talk about the current programme, the care, castration and microchiping of dogs in Roma settlements or in the areas of units of local self-government populated members of the Roma national minority started in 2017. What is important is to point out that in addition to aligning with the EU, these proposals also touch on the principles of quality management and international standards of the World Organisation for Animal Health. That's how you define what they're... the veterinary authorities and who are the official certification staff. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, the basis for... veterinary inspectors, which has not been covered by the State Inspectorate Act and are also audited in the conditions for the appointment and operation of authorised inspectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a number of other synchronizations, but there's no need to list what you see in the proposal yourself. The National Minority Representatives Club will support this proposal and would now like to say something about a project that I announced at the very beginning and is closely related to this law but also to the Animal Protection Act that we adopted back in 2017. In 2017 we have just continued to work more systematically on the problem of dogs in Roma settlements and their uncontrolled reproduction and the key word here is "systemic" because this is already the second term in which the project is continuously implemented, which is good. What is bad is the lack of coordination among the responsible participants and I believe that we will also fix it as we have improved after the adoption of the new Animal Protection Act. Thanks to then Minister Tolusic and the Government, as much as €3 million has been provided for the implementation of programmes, castrations, vaccinations and chipping of dogs in cooperation with the inspectorate and local self-government units. The pilot project was carried out in Međimurje County in municipalities and cities, Gorican, Nedelisce, Čakovec, Orehovica, Mala Subotica, Pribislavec, Podturn, Mursko Središce, Domasinec and Kotoriba. Interest in solving this problem, Meanwhile, Varazdinska, Koprivnica-križevci County and it is clear that the problem exists in other counties, and Sisak-Moslavina, Brod-Posaviska, Osijek-Baranja, or in all major Roma settlements. [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Lenart, do not disturb, please, colleague Veljak, please.]] In this whole process, we have the support of the Animal Friends Association and the head of Mr. Luke Oman's association which I thank them for. I also thank the representatives of the Roma national minority who have been volunteering for a huge job in coordinating the project without any compensation or own resources. In addition to the popular opinion that in the Roma settlements dogs are abused or thrown out by abuses by the population, they can only say that it is not true and that Roma are the ones who care not only about all dogs but also those for whom we cannot clearly determine the owners. Unfortunately, there are still Roma settlements where our citizens leave their pets with mahogany before vacations. In addition to the fact that many dogs are sick, unvaccinated and disorderly, they are almost all alike and are somehow cared about by the whole community, but the fact is that uncontrolled reproduction continued and that the problem was not resolved until the end, especially the ownership and responsibility of the individuals themselves. I don't want to blame anyone here, so explicitly, but I believe that I, from my position as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, have done more than we may have done, and we have certainly influenced the creation of financial assumptions to take care of these animals, as well as to improve the conditions in dog shelters in Međimurje County. It is important to say that the project is still ongoing and I expect us to conclude and complete the process very quickly in Međimurje so that we can continue it in other counties as well. Our goal is to protect all animals and therefore people, given that according to the information I have received, is a lot of problems. It should not be forgotten that dogs are carrying infectious diseases that pass on to humans and that we all are in today's so-called “infectious ” disease. The new normal context makes it clear what the consequences of the spread are for the functioning of our society. Basic methods for reducing the number of abandoned dogs are the organisation, regular controls, microchipability of dogs in the tour of the household, further, regulation, subsidisation, encouraging citizens to permanent sterilization of dogs and cats, education of course citizens. I recently held a meeting on this topic with current Minister Vukkovic and I am pleased that she recognized the importance of this project. It is important to stress that this project cannot be done halfway, but to the end or not. In this regard, I expect a greater effort of state inspection, which is now completely independent of the ministry and which must carry out regular controls, microchip of dogs and the general welfare of animals together with the municipal director's institution, with a tour of the household, with my support and support of the Roma community. On the other hand, units of local self-government must take over part of their own obligations, which are also legally prescribed to ensure the organisation of controls, microchip of dogs, or whether all dogs are marked with a microchip, participation in the work of a shelter for abandoned animals, decision-making on the conditions and manner of keeping pets that can prescribe permanent sterilisation as well as methods of dog and cat reproduction control, citizen education, especially young people on responsible care for pets, for injured animals, if it is not possible to determine who they have done, the necessary assistance must be organised by local self-government units. It is not necessary to forget the responsibility of municipal directors who, where necessary, must exercise supervision of the implementation of a general act of the units of local self-government that regulate the way and conditions of keeping pets. And finally, what is most important, individuals and this way, I invite everyone to register their pets in the Pets Register without fear, and to take advantage of the possibility of free vaccination, sterilization and chipping of their pets in the area already mentioned JLS. This route would also praise the decision of the Ministry of Agriculture which has taken the measure to fund the vaccination of dogs against rabies by the end of the year, including microchip, enrolment records, and the issue of a passport for pets by the end of the year. I would like to point out once again, especially to my Roma, that they have no fear of these... to help them all, and to have no fear of being taken away from them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the contrary, if you do not take responsibility for your pet, there is a possibility that someone else will host it. What is also important to repeat, in 2017. We've banned euthanasia of animals in shelters, while it's an art. In the 57th century of the 4th century, last Animal Law, we allowed animals from a shelter that did not return to the owner, or a home after 60 days, to be killed. I believe that we have also made a civilizational step in 2017, and now it is high time to stop the uncontrolled reproduction of animals to help both people and animals in every sense, and that our citizens realize that pets are a responsibility and a long-term obligation, not just a party for children until vacations. When this process is completed, the biggest job will have to be done by state inspection, especially because of the relentless cases of dog abuse and even organized dog fights, which we must eradicate for such events and responsible persons to have a zero tolerance rate. Thank you for your attention, and once again, I call upon all our citizens to take responsibility for the pets without fear and to take advantage of the country's incentive to regulate such relations for their own benefit and for the benefit of the animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36609	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP, and Martina Grman Kizivat will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36610	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honourable ministers with their co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The system relating to official controls and inspections in the field of food, animal food and animal health and animal welfare, health, herbs and plant protection products established and comply with EU rules in 2013. This has been a long-standing journey achieved by the joint efforts of all competent institutions, experts, farmers, entrepreneurs and officials during the work in Chapters 11 and 12. A rapid alarm system has also been created for food and feed through which information is sent to consumers and food business operators, animal food and concerns the withdrawal or withdrawal of non-compliant products from the market. These systems have been established within the Ministry of Agriculture, including inspections. Guides and procedures including control lists for the implementation of controls and inspections audited by the Department of Internal Audit of the Ministry of Agriculture have been prepared, and have carried out regular audits according to the annual plan. The adoption of the State Inspectorate Act was to be accompanied by all inspections from the Ministry of Agriculture. The law was passed on 20.12.2018, but entered into force on 1.4.2019. In addition, the system of rapid alarms for food and food for animals and the system of administrative assistance and cooperation shall be taken over by the State inspectorate, who, in addition to the draft law, prepares different reports, crisis plans and documents, almost all prepare and implement. And in the current system, these jobs were divided between competent administrations and competent inspections in the Ministry of Agriculture system. In order for the public and entrepreneurs to gain insight into the new system to be established, the proposal of the Law on Official Controls and the Proposal for a Veterinary Act should be observed in parallel. In general, the provisions now adopted to the competent authorities for official controls are partially deleted in the proposal of the Veterinary Act as they are carried out by inspections under the State Inspectorate. Part of the provisions remain because they are carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the Veterinary Administration. The final result of these changes is a completely chaotic and complicated system that will make business difficult for our farmers and entrepreneurs in the agricultural food sector and only generate additional costs, and you are constantly calling for reforms and simplification of the system. In the light of the draft law, it is stated that the additional resources in the state budget are not necessary. However, we are interested in assessing the funds for official controls that need to be provided by legal and natural persons from the agricultural food sector, in one word entrepreneurs, what will be their cost? The law also provides for the use of funds from fees and fees to be paid by entrepreneurs and farmers in the course of the controls. However, it seems to us that ultimately entrepreneurs in the agricultural food sector could pay both significant fees and subsequent or new parafiscal charges. We therefore demand that the government deliver detailed financial effects, impact assessments, how much funding is planned for official controls in the state budget by the competent authorities and how much is the cost assessment for entrepreneurs at the annual level. Only in this way will we gain insight into the total cost of carrying out official controls in the Republic of Croatia, and can we assess whether these costs will result in an impact on the price increase of agricultural food products. In addition, we are interested in why the law has not been prepared before because, in the light of the draft amendments to the law, it is stated that EU Regulation 2017/625 is fully binding and is directly applicable in all EU Member States since 14 December 2019, if I am not mistaken, we are in 2021. It seems to us that this is another one in a series of delays from the ministry in the adoption of strategies, programmes and legislative frameworks. This way we also insist on making guides and procedures for all inspections, and their public publication on the official website of the competent institutions, with prior consultation with the public. The consultation with the public is necessary in order to make the documents prepared clear to everyone, and the very implementation of official controls would be faster with fewer concerns and open issues. It is clear that it is not prescribed. 12. EU Regulations 2017/625, but Member States can always carry out additional activities to assist users and the public. Other documents related to the performance of official controls should also be made public. In fact, we are witnessing that inspectors have a subjective approach or different treatment in the same situations that raises doubts about the correctness of the case. By public publication of these documents on the basis of which official controls will be carried out, the system itself would be more transparent and fairer. I'm still applying to the Veterinary Act. In the light of the law, the Proposer states that this bill is in line with the Veterinary Act, mentioned already by the EU provision which is also fully binding and is directly applicable in all EU Member States since the date of 14 December 2019. It's unclear why the law wasn't prepared before. Many provisions of the law are complemented or deleted and comply with the fact that the veterinary inspection is now part of the State Inspectorate. However, part of the provision remains and is carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. It is for veterinary purposes, given the powers that remain now, that it can actually be at the lower level of the organisational unit or sector, because, behold, this administration needs to take care of animal food production facilities. If we've all caught up with your legal credentials, there's even a register of these facilities and several other registers. In addition, it seems to us that the Food Act, which is in force from 1. 1. In 2019, it was not in line with the transfer of inspections from the Ministry of Agriculture to the State Inspectorate. Correct me if I'm wrong. Namely, in Chapter 5, the administrative supervision of the official control of this Article. It is stated on the 32nd that official controls are carried out by veterinary, sanitary and agricultural inspectors of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health. I wonder if the Minister of Agriculture can explain to us how many other laws and sublaws need to be amended in order to establish a system designed by a political decision rather than a decision based on an assessment of financial and business impact? The system that was established several years before Croatia's entry into the EU, you, by your political decision and you have the right to do so, changed in 2018 and now you are planning to establish it for the next 10 years. This is how you behave when you don't care about farmers, entrepreneurs, and civil servants who have to implement such a criminal legal framework. The ultimate result of your work is a completely chaotic and complicated system that will make business difficult for our farmers and entrepreneurs and only generate additional costs and, as I said before, you swear to reform and simplify the system. And now, as sugar at the end, this week we're talking a lot about sugar, you're shortening the terms of professional experience for the appointment of an authorised veterinarian from 2 to 6 months. work experience. We're wondering if it's six months. A short deadline for obtaining enough work experience to carry out the work of an authorised veterinarian? It also introduces the possibility of applying softer sanctioning, the sanctioning of authorised veterinarians for minor non-compliance in carrying out entrusted tasks. Well, that's great. For farmers and entrepreneurs, fines, fees, parafiscal charges, and for those who control, minor measures. The message is more than clear and we can even say expected. And finally, in order to avoid the chaos that the Government is going to be even bigger because of this poorly organised system, please, consider, withdraw all the laws relating to official controls from the parliamentary procedure to do so in order to reduce the suffering of all those to whom the laws apply but also to state and public officials who have to enforce these laws. This can result in a simpler, more efficient and harmonised legal framework for the benefit of consumers and entrepreneurs, or the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36611	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36612	Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the basis for the application of Regulation 2017/625 through legislation is to access risk-based controls for the purpose of early detection and prevention. I welcome this proposal, however, but I must stress that the assumption of such a system and an updated database is from which it is possible to see which entities exist and which pose a risk. It is also a prerequisite for high knowledge of practices and markets by the inspections that monitor them. I must admit that only meeting the intention and objective of the regulation is a high goal that Croatia has in front of it. Given all past affairs that have followed us over the last 4 to 5 years with products from other Member States, I must note that today, therefore, we must work together to meet the objectives because these are objectives and the EU, which are primarily about the following, so ensuring that food is safe and healthy for humans, and that activities that could affect the safety of the agricultural food chain or the protection of consumer's interest in food, food information are carried out in accordance with specific requirements. Furthermore, ensuring a high level of human, animal and plant health and animal welfare throughout the agricultural and food chain and in all areas of activities where the main objective is to combat the possible spread of diseases which in some cases are transferable to humans or organisms harmful to plants or plant products and to ensure environmental protection against risks that may result from GMOs or plant protection agents. Although the law transposes the rules itself and calls for labour models in Croatia, it remains in each individual state to ensure that the target is achieved, whether through trained inspectors who continuously monitor the situation on the market, through laboratories that are qualified and equipped as well as through the cooperation of citizens with inspection services. It is clear that inspectors cannot be everywhere at all times, but therefore they must be much more agile in cooperation with citizens who report irregularities even though it may not be time or place, I must mention that I have written about irregularities to the authorities and rarely when I have received any answer. This way of cooperation is not commendable nor will it achieve objectives nor will it give citizens the morals to better monitor and inform. We are facing a future period and the aim is to reduce the amount of pesticide use, again with the above-mentioned objective. How we're going to do that when there's more disease, it's getting longer and longer and it's not being treated. Furthermore, we are tasked with achieving the largest share of organic agriculture, how can we do so without raising prices for farmers when almost all environmental fertilisers and all treatment funds come from other Member States, such as Italy or France. Official controls should be thorough and effective. I don't know if our labs are trained or whether they have everything they need to achieve their goals, i.e. thorough and effective controls. It is necessary, in particular, to invest in the equipment and knowledge of border inspection services. Furthermore, regarding the risk assessment, I ask the question whether it is normal and cost-effective to sample milk on a dairy farm where it is rarely inconsistencies every week. Whether such a control system is present in other Member States or there is another method that is equally effective and less cost-weighted for our milk producers. And I'm also asking if the food that comes from a small economy, which sells locally, is really as much of a risk as it is for example. food originating from the facility, for example from Germany, which sells through a trade chain across the EU. How are we going to justify the first prerequisite, therefore risk analysis, when we raised standards when we enter the EU 8 years ago, such as instead of registering the facility, introducing an approval of the facility, so we are talking about far higher standards or such as the requirement to establish a full HASAP system and thus imposed unsustainable costs that they have been paying for years. Are we really going to admit now in risk analysis that our small producers are not in line with the idea of small producers in the EU? That our young people do not employ up to 10 workers and are not small at EU level, but several times smaller than micro entrepreneurs, small and sensitive without clear and articulated protection of our country. Risk analysis and costs related to official controls should be more transparent. This Regulation is a step in the effort of Europe to make the control system as transparent as possible, uniform and adequate access to controls as individual entities do with their size and production and deserve. It is now up to us to finally equate the business of our entities with those of the Member States, in terms of requirements and to ensure truly adequate controls, again, based on the risk that a particular entity poses on the market. When we talk about the Veterinary Act, certain illogicalities and misunderstandings occur. Related to the article, in particular, 14, 15, 16 proposed amendments, which are related to Art. 109 and Art. 115, remains unclear for which tasks are authorized by management and for which DIRH. Regarding the same, do you think there will be a problem when the same body as DIRH gives authority to perform certain tasks to veterinary cells, and then the same body exercises control. How can the inspector who conducts surveillance in this case be objective, when he is now, when the law is passed, not even the promoter? Please refer to administrative and infringement provisions related to infringements of regulations by veterinary cells and injuries by ordinary animal owners, who are citizens and farmers, or farmers who often lack so much information and even available online media. Article 137 provides for the adoption of a solution ordering the elimination of irregularities, whether that same article relates to veterinary organisations or to the delegation of certain tasks. Namely, if we look at the article. 73 The State Inspectorate Act, in the event that the party has acted according to a solution, shall not be subject to an indictment. In which way powers will be abolished, if there is a possibility of correction and when a decision will be taken on the basis of several irregularities or remains unclear. Also, in your explanation you stated that this article also refers to the writing of the record, which is not true because the record is not mentioned anywhere. Related to Art. 25 relating to Art. 152 which makes such drastic measures if the role of the DIRH is both advisory and non-necessarily punishable to the first, as the chief state inspector himself said. Why, then, is this article not stated that non-compliance is punishable? This is how it turns out that, although the party removes the deficit, it will be punished, which does not comply with the Inspectorate Act, but is moving away from it. The same applies to Art. 26 which is related to art. 163 Veterinary Act. Art. 152 is talking about a warning. The notice is a criminal penalty and, as such, it is final, i.e., when a warning is made, cannot be brought after the opinion of the administration, the same case will be re-judged, nor will the wrongdoers, which you mention, be brought to any extent. The warning is a measure and cannot be held accountable twice for the same offence. This way, I would like to ask you to move forward as soon as possible with the amendment and addition of the article. 90 The Veterinary Act, which is to be read under 1st, allows the slaughter of pigs, sheep, goats, poultry and rabbits, farmed game and other animals, as defined by the rules of the holding, if those animals do not show signs of impaired condition, and meat and meat products originating in those animals are intended for consumption in their own household and local retailing according to the Regulation. Under the second slaughter of equidae and bovine animals must be carried out in slaughterhouses, except in cases where animal welfare works, it is not possible or, except in cases of extensively held animals and animals suffering from the pain and suffering of the injured animal. The objectives that would be achieved by such changes, so that we can coordinate the national economy, allow slaughter and better treatment with extensively held animals that live freely all year round and are largely wild, which prevents loading and bringing to the slaughterhouses of our farmers, would reduce the costs of business to the subjects themselves because workers for loading and transport to slaughterhouses of farmers who sell one, two cows, take a good part of the gain and, with the above mentioned, have to be aware that larger slaughterhouses and are not ready to take over such livestock and stop their slaughter process and would also enable consumers to eat healthier and more healthy meat as it often lasts several days during which the meat is in the freezers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36613	Thank you. The next Club representative will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ljubomir Kolarek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36614	Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, two important and important laws are, above all, the Law on Official Controls and the Law on Veterinary Control, the Proposal for a Law on Official Control and other official activities implemented in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products, similar to the Veterinary Act, the legal order and legislation of the EU relating to veterinary and food safety is accepted. As is often pointed out, the areas of food regulations, in particular, are fully regulated by European regulations, while only a small segment is in the domain of national regulations. So, given our accession and membership, we here simply have to accept certain rules of conduct and prevent any anomalies that may occur through their application because, as we refer to official controls, the inspectorate, there are immediately certain mistrusts of people. The law is in line with the new European legislation on official controls, which has established a simpler, more efficient, integrated food safety system based on stricter veterinary and... Sanitary standards and the European Commission has been given wider powers to halt the sale and transport of risky food in Member States that are not able to prevent this by themselves as well as to punish food fraud more strongly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Food control in many countries also makes it difficult for the law of multiple jurisdiction and ineffectiveness of supervision, monitoring and application of the law. The more effective rational food and legislation control system is crucial to ensuring the health and safety of locals, as well as to ensuring food safety and quality in international trade. What I want to point out is that I spent 17 years working as a state veterinary inspector and I admit sometimes working surveillance is not easy and I think that this legislation that is before us in the first reading has shifts in positiveness and I think that regulation 625 that may not make significant changes to the old one will still bring certain shifts in the delegated bodies of the current control bodies, i.e. the possibility of delegated certain jobs and natural persons and the novelty is also the authority to issue certificates... animals or products of animal origin which are now entrusted to individual authorised persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the rules on food, this law introduces a number of amendments to the EU legislation, which has also come in the area of the labelling of hooves and non-commercial movement of pets. In addition, the establishment of a State Inspectorate, the veterinary inspection from the Ministry of Agriculture, passed to the State Inspectorate and was accordingly required to implement the amendment of the Veterinary Act. I believe that these amendments to the Veterinary Act do not introduce significant changes to the veterinary system, but that new EU regulations or amendments have been made to the competence of the body in the Republic of Croatia which carry out veterinary inspections. Personally, I believe that my colleagues, given that I worked for 17 years as a state veterinary inspector, have so far been professional. Effectively and rationally carry out official controls, that this will continue to be so professionally, efficiently, rationally carried out also within the State Inspectorate and I hope that veterinary organisations will find common language and agreement with the State Inspectorate on the level of the check-up fee and what I want to point out is that it has been repeatedly said that it may be the 6-month period. around I'll say, interning a person who can carry out official controls too little. We need to know, and more than once after this speaker, it has been said that the system of education has changed means that today, the veterinary study does not last 10 semesters but 12, and that already since 3 years, there are a few different directions so that the level of knowledge in higher level controls is raised already in education. The HDZ Club will support both laws in its first reading and I hope that the level of control and rise to a higher level and what is most important does not burden small, medium and large agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36615	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, according to the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36616	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. There are two laws ahead of us in our first reading. So, that is, one is the Law on official controls and other official activities that are implemented in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and animal protection, and the other is the proposal for amendments and additions to the Veterinary Act, and I kind of think it's a good thing that a united debate is both because it's simple and discussed and everything else. When we have laws like this, then we have to, I always have, we discuss some laws, I ask a few key questions, which is the goal, which is the point, what we want to achieve, how we're going to achieve it, and whether in law we have all the elements based on what we can really do. The question that we can all ask together, whether we want our food to be quality, whether we want to make sure that what's on shelves or somewhere we buy has a certain quality and whether we can really be sure about it. The answer to the first question is, there's no one who doesn't want to be sure that what on the shelves, regardless of the malls or anywhere else buys, that it's quality, that we're sure of that, I'm afraid we can't be sure to the end. We're getting shape. So here we are in line with certain EU directives and every time compliance with EU directives we all say, that is, and then after a certain time we have a pilot project and then these pilot projects tell us that we have either misunderstood or mistranslated or something else. So, go step forward, yeah. But when you do any amendments to the law, and when it comes to this law, it's an old law from 2013 that you decided not to change and supplement but it was easier to make a new regulation, which is always okay with me because then it's easier to apply it because when you find all these changes and supplements, you find it hard, so from 2013, now we have a new law from 2021. It would always be good to know the analysis of the existing situation because from the issues that we have here from the media we can see that all the time we see that we have bad products on the ground, that under the radar come some things that aren't good, that therefore the topic was olive oil the other day, the distinguished representative Petrius mentioned honey and the whole time the theme of honey and honey that we have, and I won't tell you about those pictures that we had in different shows when we were showing the slaughters and in some of the EU has come to the principle of all the EU, so the meat and so the rules in the EU. I don't mind and we don't mind having regulations that are more regulated, that we have regulations that are so much better, but what I want, I want to have regulations and I want to have provisions that are effective and I want tools that will ensure the effectiveness of what it says. In order to know what we have, it would be good always, so there's that part of the reasoning of the law, that some things are defined through that explanation, it's no accident that I asked the minister how many labs we have on the market, which are dealing with some things because we're going to delegate some things to them. She answered my number, but she didn't answer my question. What kind of experience do we have because if, I'm doing it, I'm thinking technically and I know how to compare it. So you can have and ride a carriage, and then agree the regulations like you have a spaceship. Of course there's a lot to go from carriage to spaceship. The interpretation of these laws would be good to know what we have at this point. With what time do we have, what tools did we have in our hand to secure everything that was prescribed by the laws? These laws still show another thing that has been worn in this House for a while, and of course, new in the government and in the Parliament, to prescribe a part of the problem by law, and most of the problems are transferred to regulations and regulations which are then defined by a series of rules for simple reasons, so you do it for 2 reasons. One reason you don't know exactly when you're doing the law that's the right thing to do, and the other thing is to avoid a procedure at all to possibly have someone decide, discuss and take care of all of it. So these laws apply to food, to wanting to make our food better, to be better, to have all the controls. How are we gonna do this control? So these controls we're going to work on, through individual laboratories and in this law we're introducing a newspaper that I've never had a chance to see before, and that newspaper is to enable the confidence of certain official activities and individuals. So we're delegating business to natural persons. The minister also said that this would not be possible now, so the application of what we have in the law, until another set of laws were changed that would be possible because you now have the public authority that you can only transfer to others, so it was never a physical person. For the first time it's physical, and the explanation was, we can commit to the debate of the island law because we have some, we have islands, so it's simpler, so it's more efficient, but we should know it first, why we do it, exactly what we're going to give them, I'm not one of those who absolutely thinks, I'll never think that you should strictly prescribe everything and that you need to be in that mold where you've prescribed everything, and I think that the state should control everything, even more, I think that some things can be left to the market and that it's good to leave the market and that it will be better regulated. But there are some things here that need to be open. This is where we talk about food. We're talking about something that we need to be important to each and every one of us, no matter what side of this assembly we're sitting on, the world's horizon that you're lighting up, every time you say if you want to be sure that what you're eating is quality, that you're sure about what you're eating, we'll say yes. So at this point, there are no conditions that this is possible in accordance with other regulations. At this point, we don't know exactly what we're going to give them. So at this point we're transferring it to them, it seems to me it's too soon, that another regulation has to be changed, and then behind that we see exactly what it is and define exactly what part it is. If you can define it precisely through these amendments and amendments to the law, or through this law, it would be very good because it would ensure security. So try to define exactly what you're transferring to both natural persons and some basic elements, don't switch it to regulations and regulations, because then it'll put you in trouble. And I'm gonna use this last piece as an inspectorate. We had the State Inspectorate, then we moved from the State Inspectorate to the fact that the inspections in the resolutions of individual ministries. And then we decided to return it to the State Inspectorate. When it was, I said from this address book a sentence that now repeats, “Do not let the mess be solved by a bigger mess. ” When you're in a process where you have an awful lot of participants, when those participants are sitting in different bodies, then you're actually a mess. Because when you bring them all together, when you bring them into one pile, you have a mess. The role of the State Inspectorate is, among other things, advisory and then behind it must indeed be behind the solution in the second step indeed and a serious penalty. We are now in 2021, so not now because it will come to another reading, so it will be somewhere in the middle of the year when it comes to our second reading, or when it comes, we define some other things related to the State Inspectorate. What we have on top of when we look at certain things that the State Inspectorate is doing, I understand that there was a crown, a time of earthquake, and the general question is at that point when the inspector comes to you outside, it will certainly be the word of my people, let's do some other work, but let's not forget that it should be regulated, that it should be defined because these laws are the basic word for food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36617	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left block on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36618	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. My colleagues are already a big part of it important, they said, and I suppose they'll say something else, I'll actually start with that as a man who's really in the big part of that lay, and as a man who like most people when he travels all over Croatia, certainly enjoys seeing cattle in the landscape, it's of course nice to see both cattle and horses and sheep, of course and now of course we're all still conscious that the health of these animals is something that someone should worry about, that it's not as simple as it seems to someone, you let the cattle into the landscape and that's what it is, profit, how to bread without distraction. Of course, it is not so when it is seriously done and now these two laws which, of course, are the continuation of this regulation from 2017. However, what I am interested in, I understand all the people who participated, we have also discussed on the board these laws, the people who participated in the preparation of this law, if we are talking about the Veterinary Law, means from the Veterinary Faculty, of course, yes, the people of the Veterinary Chamber and the HGK, but I am interested in how it is possible, I went to see what offered me to have no but any reaction from veterinarians, experts to that law, how is that possible? I went to look, and I saw the data say from 2011, I couldn't find a new one on the Internet. That there are 144 veterinary hospitals all over Croatia. There's so much on that list. Now I don't know if there's a fresher list. How is it possible that none of these people who have this particular practice, the esteemed representative Kolarek said, for years he worked just as a veterinary inspector, I am now interested in whether really all these colleagues of yours are impressed by this law, so why didn't they at least write that it was completely amazing that they were comparing it with the regulation because we see that the 2017 regulation has a lot of these extra ones, obviously people are thinking, is a big EU, so there's probably something else going on here and it's all numbered at the beginning. And then you would think that maybe the garden centers, I didn't find the number of garden centers, but when I talked to the people who are what they are, the agronoms, who are saying that, uh, a lot of those things inside the law, it's certainly very true, the regulation is well translated, some things are really and well written, now it's a matter of implementation because it's still a matter of practice we're still working on black, usually and, and we're all pretending that we're all dealing with eco-production, so then we know only when people really are investigating and when people really bring some big names into question and then it's not a big name that's been ringing, that's not exactly true. Well, that's the thing, I'm gonna end up with this right now, I mean, I want you to tell me exactly, Secretary of State, whether it's in the invitation to this short, but it's enough, a window on an e-consultation of two weeks because for some things it's gonna be longer, but okay, two weeks. Are the veterinary stations about it familiar with the e-mail, I went to watch, but now it's too late, I don't see on these agroportals, do people count it down, people, it'll be open to you then, look, report that the real public debate of those who are really up to it and who live in practice every day? Because it happens, I've already mentioned to the minister, I'm not going to talk about the red palm pipe and palm tree anymore, which, which has made us so disfigured by the looks of the coast that all the old, old palm trees we've had to cut, and who knows when and how much, and I think we know how old these, we know how old these are and what photographs, we know that it's gonna take us decades to get that look back on some side. I'm convinced by people who deal with plants that, of course, when they come from the outside, even these plants that we take in gardens, to take out apartments or courtyards or gardens, of course those plants, if they're not properly controlled, there's a lot of things, from pests to plant diseases, and we're not saying that selling plants requires permits, we need certificates, some plants are forbidden to sell, or because they're so aggressive that if they go out, then they start to grow up, we know all that, but I think a man could expect us to see on Facebook that someone is selling the latest copies of the Velebit Degenia, I don't know. Or the last few copies, there, there's a runolist still, tell me the climbers that he can be on Velebit, but of course, no one reads it, whoever the real climbers are, will not pick up a runolist who has 3 pieces in us and 2 or 3 or 5 in Slovenia still on Triglav. Yes, I mean here, I mentioned, I asked this question of some things that were not clear to me, a lot of these things are clear in how it was transferred or how it was translated into law, but I still think that some real debate would be expected and I will end up the same as my colleague Mrak-Taritash, says in the end about DIRH. I have no doubt at all, there is no doubt that the great, great majority of inspectors, the doctor of biology, chemistry, agronomy, in all these laboratories, labs, deliberately speaking in the female race because we all know that a large number of these services is a woman, but we all know that in the end it all comes down to the role of the chief state inspector, that it's above all of them. If any of them suspect that everything will end up working, then there is still a very vivid person of the chief state inspector who testifies to the size of the HDZ problem that really puts real, but really high-quality personnel on important functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36619	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36620	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Today's law is one in a series that is in line with EU directives, unfortunately only such laws have been discussed lately, but what must be, must be harmonised, I would like it to be done literally and respected, with which we agree, rather than having some version of ourselves again. The proposed law provides that competent authorities acting in the public interest have adequate resources and equipment and guarantee impartiality and professionality. As far as our labs are concerned, I know professionalism exists, but unfortunately, impartiality, in this segment of our agriculture, does not exist. Inspections, controls, surveillance, laboratories, of course, independent, all of this is necessary, normal and necessary in a normal and orderly state. And unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia, and we all know it's not. Independence, impartiality disappears where employment starts towards the party card, by similarity, not by ability, education, knowledge, experience. We've been witnessing this for years, and here's a colleague before me pointed out that it exists, and that's one of the main problems in the operation of the Republic of Croatia in all segments. Unbiased. Today some finds become valid, some finds end up in drawers, so they come out when the best timing is, and some of them are lost from moving to a drawer and drawer, so some people simply don't respond to what they did, what the inspections have found with their findings or what the laboratories have proven to be not in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Croatia, including those in line with EU directives. The EU Directives, when they come into existence, come through a longer period of time, through consultations, through far more quality and longer discussions, even cross-sectoral and older EU members, are literally and respected. Far more than it's in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's agriculture is crying out for education and education in the OPGs, and the inspection should, in most cases, be a corridor of what unfortunately our farmers did not apply or did not read well through the law because with all the work they have, they cannot read all the laws, and on the other hand, not all people are prepared to interpret the laws enough. And so do we, who are discussing legal proposals, often interpret them in other ways, and what do you think people who need to apply them to all the jobs they do. The inspection in this section of agriculture should be the one that will somehow educate, which will point to shortcomings and give farmers the opportunity to prepare for these legal provisions that they must respect and give them several opportunities to correct certain shortcomings. Of course, the method of punishment is the same option, but really when every measure in business is lost and after several warnings are not applied what the inspection has warned or what is done incorrectly. Markets in the Republic of Croatia, which are unfortunately extinct, markets that sell the most quality food at the moment in the Republic of Croatia, are far better quality and healthier than centres, shopping centres that have taken over primate in trade, but you must understand that today you are a market salesman, i.e. The manufacturer is not at all simple. I'm telling you this from my own experience because we have a 20-year stand on the market, so it looks like this to you, means the manufacturer of the OPG who picked up his own goods this afternoon, his vegetables that will take him out on the market the second day, must pre-sell him, specify in the records how many pounds he's picked up and puts on the market, when he comes to the market, he has to write out declarations about every kind of vegetables and enter the price at which he'll sell those vegetables, which is a little illogical, each of them declares their vegetables, writes the product class, and then, to avoid problems with the legal provisions, everyone writes the second class, and sells the first class. On the market, the price of the product is changed several times in the day, i.e. In one morning because markets usually work until noon, every time you have to write a new declaration with a new price and then when you've finished that day, when you unfortunately remain a commodity, then you have to re-determine all that stuff, rediscover it by species, put it in the register and take it home. Now, do you think that's normal for one agricultural producer, for people who survive in this way, for people who sell at 70, 75 and even 80 years old in the market, can they comply with such regulations as legislators did? I'm talking about family holdings that are not in the value added tax system, which are not in the fiscalisation system and which don't have to issue an account, but still have to keep records and if customs controls come into the market, they haven't found all this normally followed by a penalty from which these sellers are very difficult to recover and whose budgets are very difficult to bear. On the other hand, we have malls where all the things I've been saying are being sold, the meat that we all buy in these centres that are susceptible and allegedly controlled by independent laboratories, which are run by independent people and independent inspections that lead under quotes by independent people and ask yourself how many times you bought meat and such meat shops and when you put it on a barbecue or prepared it in some other way then you saw in your eyes without laboratory tests that something was wrong with that meat, but it ended up on the market anyway and our citizens consumed it. The situation in Croatia on the property side is forced to buy the cheapest and then watch where the actions are and seek what is cheapest to survive, so that they can eat 1, 2 or 3 times a week meat, and they are not aware that this meat will cost them a lot over some period. And therefore some people in the supply chain in the Republic of Croatia should be accused of genocide because they literally make genocide by placing such food on the market, they literally poison their own people for petty profit, and we can see it through an increase in malignant diseases in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that it is food that is among the first to benefit from pollution by increasing malignancies. Because of this inspection, yes, the labs do, but we need real independence and party cards should not be the ones that will determine people who will lead such independence and such laboratories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36621	Before we go to individual debates, I would like to announce that, after the debate is concluded, we will immediately begin taking a stand to warn everyone on time. We're not gonna take any breaks for maybe an hour, so wait till we get this guy on board. Now we're going to an individual debate, so first they're going to speak to the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs, the EU has the highest standards of food safety in the world, but we have witnessed scandals and food fraud where the meat of disabled and sick cows has been found on consumer plates. Beef lasagna contained horsemeat, powdered milk also contained melamine. Such situations and the growing interest of criminal organisations for food production have shown a lack of European legislation, so we went to its amendments in 2017. These amendments to the law bring us into line with the European legislation on official controls that came into force at the end of 2019, which has established a simpler, more efficient, integrated food safety system based on stricter veterinary and phytosanitary standards at European level, with the European Commission given wider powers to stop the sale and transport of risk food in Member States that cannot be prevented by themselves as well as stronger punishment for food fraud. Of the total 225 controls carried out during 2019 in the Republic of Croatia in which food was sampled to verify its quality, 46 incompatible samples were identified, mostly in the control of extra virgin olive oil, followed by honey, cheeses, noise oil, non-alcoholic beverages and ground meat. It all resulted in 35 indictments and 5 misdemeanors. It is a clear indication that the problem exists and we need to solve it, and one way to solve it is to increase the number of controls carried out, plan stricter monitoring of those already caught in the breach and the concentration of veterinary and other inspections on the problem points in the food chain. It should be said that too much maneuvering space for malfeasance still has traders who place on the market cheap imported products of dubious quality and nutritional value, and that these products pose unfair competition to our farmers also endanger consumer health. The paradox is that domestic products are thoroughly tested while products imported from the rest of the EU have a unique health certificate often without cover. On the single market, it is absolutely unacceptable to sell medically invalid products among Member States. The costs of control, however high, should not be an excuse for jeopardising health and consumer protection. This is why the activities taken by our bodies are important for official controls in cases of reasonable doubt about the entry and presence of medically incorrect food on the Croatian market. And it is crucial for us that these amendments to the law result in the suspension of consignments of non-compliant food, and that offenders be punished at least in the amount of illegally acquired profits or the percentage of total earnings, so that they do not have any idea of cheating again. Our farmers, as well as manufacturing processors, apply standards which, for example, do not have to meet fruit and vegetables producers from third countries that are imported into the Republic of Croatia. Farmers warn us of this unfair, low-priced competition, but in a potential danger to consumer health, given that pesticides and herbicides that are not allowed in the EU are used in third countries. That's why I find it important to act immediately on customs when such a shipment crosses the border. The same treatment must be done when it comes to the meat that comes to our market and is suspected of its health care. I expect such a shipment to be stopped, to be controlled and in case of disagreement to return the shipment, and the offenders who deliberately import such meat into our market to punish themselves. And in the end, nothing less important, I will remind you that in the Republic of Croatia, the seed of genetically modified seeds is banned, even for experimental purposes, and it is forbidden to produce such food, which I personally worked on for 10 years. with a group of enthusiasts to declare all counties GMO free and to pass adequate laws. I therefore believe that this law must clearly show our commitment that we are a country free of GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36623	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36624	Dear MPs, the fact that we are harmonising these amendments and supplementing these laws, with these amendments, we are harmonising our legislation with EU legislation. But it also seems to me the fact that with these laws we are practically in line with our other laws, mainly with the Law on the Prevention of Negative Commercial Practices, which we discussed yesterday, and also with the Law on Agriculture, which will also come on our agenda. And I'd like to hear your comment on how these laws will help or reflect precisely on preventing negative, bad trade practices in the Republic of Croatia, what we talked about yesterday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36625	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36626	Thank you very much. Well, it certainly gives greater authority to the competent inspection services, which allows...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36627	Can we just keep it down in the auditorium? There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36628	Therefore, greater powers are conferred on the competent inspection services to enable their spot response, and it is possible for risk assessment to be carried out in control. What does that mean, for example? If we have two eggs farms and one of them frequently violates regulations and the other is not caught in a violation, then it is logical that one who has never been in breach is not controlled daily but that the higher concentration of control is directed towards those who break those laws. And so far there have been some measures and mechanisms that could be used when it comes to controlling suspicious shipments because legislation when it comes to consumer protection is extremely restrictive in the EU, but I hope that through the adoption of this law it will indeed be applied in practice in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36629	The next replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36630	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Petir, I understand the intention of the law, and you have well said, it is necessary to control more closely the quality of food products that are placed on the market, meat, etc. Unfortunately, not long ago we had cases and unfortunately the fatal outcomes in Croatia, and I absolutely agree with that, the goal is good. However, what is your opinion, is this law, in fact, making it easier for manufacturers or fornicating them? Will we actually be able to reconcile some kind of food safety with the over-nodification and complexity of the system for manufacturers, or for those who place their products on the market?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36631	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36632	Thank you very much. So there is always this danger when we bring new regulations that we are in line with, of course, the EU rules that maybe some of the articles will be too much or that it will complicate the lives of our producers. But this is about the consistent transposition of a European directive that I must say that the European Parliament's representatives from your club have just insisted that it be transposed into our legislation as soon as possible. It's a complex document. We adopted it in the European Parliament in 2017. and Member States have prayed 2.g. In fact, the deadline for them to get in line so that I hope that through this reading which took a certain period has nevertheless succeeded in reaching a compromise legislative act that will not overcomplicate the lives of producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36633	The next replica of the respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36634	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think that each of us would like to consume domestic quality products at a low price, and we will probably agree that we still have a lot to do about organic production. And now I refer to the groceries you mentioned, it's honey. So honey, propolis, again our goal would be to make as many eco products as possible, and as little imports as possible. I watched a little bit of the conditions for certification of organic honey and propolis. So on the one hand, of course, that the presence of both heavy metals and pesticides and herbicides is monitored, but under these certification conditions it is clear that this defined hip must be far from Primorje, etc., but I don't see any distance from the roads, for example. Are we the honey we import and yet classified as an eco product really able to recognize whether they respect these certification conditions or whether there may be some room for embezzlement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36635	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36636	Thank you very much for the replica. Yeah, big scams happen in the honey sector. So the European Commission's report showed that 1/3 of the honey placed on the EU market is falsified. I must say that I have tried to influence along with other colleagues in every way possible to press the European Commission to amend the Honey Directive, which would then prescribe a clear indication of the country of origin of honey, which is not the case now. You have the mark that something is produced in the EU or that it is a mixture of EU and third countries, which is a huge problem because it may happen, for example, that someone puts 99% of honey from a third country, that we don't know who it is, 1% of honey from Croatia, and it's going to be a mixture of honey from the EU, so it's not good, so I asked for it to go into stricter honey control, just last week I sent an initiative to the Ministry of Agriculture to establish a reference laboratory, but to bring in a pollen atlas, because on the basis of the pollen atlas, then we would know what peds we have in Croatia, so if we were to control honey, we would immediately see whether there is a pollen in honey or not. And they would have discovered the counterfeits. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36637	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36638	Thank you very much. My colleagues, you said in your debate that all counties were in favour of getting GMOs free, each county, however, the fact is that in the last term I have also proposed an amendment here to be the law to be a ban on selling, transport, planting and use of GMOs, however, this is the Parliament's refusal and now my bill of law is in the procedure, as well as the law on the ban on the use of glyphosate because we know that Austria, the lower home has already accepted it, however, lobbys do so as well as imports, meat, for example. Pork meat treated with glyphosate, which is a soybean that is fed and imported uncontrollably and sold on our market terribly cheaply for destroying our producers because they are not competitive. So they are counties for it, but here 90 MPs in the last term voted against and I hope now and in the procedure of my proposal for a law on the ban on GMOs and glyphosate, so we'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36639	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36640	My colleague Bulj, I worked for 10 years to declare all counties GMO free, which was done, from 2000 to 2010 so the whole of Croatia is GMO free because the counties are an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Through our legislation at national level it is already prohibited to sow GMO seeds and for experimental purposes, therefore, that part of your proposal does not make sense because we already have it in place. We can't sow or produce GMO food and we're a country free from GMOs. The second is what belongs to the free market and the import of food, if such food from imports contains GMOs, it must be duly marked. I also raised this initiative to a higher level and proposed in the HS, and then the EU parliament for which I received the support of all the states belonging to the Alpe-Adria region, that the entire Alpe-Adria region be declared free and that initiative was successfully assessed and started in the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36641	My colleague Bulj has broken the Rules of Procedure. What has the Rules of Procedure been hurt again?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36642	Thank you very much, Your Honor. He's been injured. The 238th is a colleague who injured this article where he says that no legal initiative is needed. How is it not necessary when HS did not pass this law on GMOs and glyphosate, where hundreds of thousands of tonnes of pork treated with glyphosate is imported, i.e. which uses soy, and also we have 400 products on our GMO shelves, minimally listed, and in 40% of Croatians we have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36643	You yourself know that you abuse that institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure and you get a warning. Please don't do this. I've told you so many times. You could've already accepted that, could you? Yes, if we are going to abuse the institutions of the Rules of Procedure, then this will all turn into how citizens unfortunately look at us. The next replica is... Comrade Petyr, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36644	Vice President, I would because of the public's interest and because my colleague Bulj was injured by an officer. 238 scares the public with false information, had to react to this, but if you insist, then I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36645	He was warned because he violated the Rules of Procedure, Please don't. [[Intruder:... because false things are brought forth persistently and does not want to read...]] No, you can't, you can't talk, you can't talk, you can't talk, you can't talk, you can't talk, you can't talk. [[Intruder:... documents and listen to what I have already explained to him five times.]] And you get a warning. ... [[I've already explained that to you, these are facts.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Bulj, don't yell from the scene because I'm the foundation of the article. The 240th century 1 utters a reminder by taking away words. [[I can't hear you.]] Here you go, dear representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mariana, it is well-defined that this law on official controls and food and seeds and herbs and clearly states that the State Inspectorate has also entered which all inspection services have been deployed by the ministries and in the past, I am sure and many examples suggest that the Ministers and State Secretarys and Assistants and some directors have directed inspection services according to their opinion. Today it is an independent body as a State Inspectorate that will also have these official controls in its composition and I believe that, above all, it will act preventively, educationally, and then sanction all those who really place goods of no quality on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36647	The answer of the esteemed representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36648	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. Well, you know that both on our Committee on Agriculture and recently debated the effectiveness of inspections and really supported the fact that this work is strong, to be timely, to stop all fraud, that in those cases when a small-scale offense and not intended to happen for the first time, it does not go into strict punishment, but also, in some cases, we see that we have offenders who are doing it on purpose to achieve a major property benefit, and they were literally being punished from the amount of peanuts. So with this law, we want to put an end to it. We want to give stronger powers to our inspection services, to say that it is very important for us to protect agricultural producers and consumers, and those who break the law will have to pay taxes with very high amounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36649	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected MPs Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36650	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with the co-worker. So we have two laws to discuss. Do we want our food to be quality? We do. Do we want to be sure of that? We do. Will this law allow for the form of it? It will. Whether the contents should be enabled? I'm afraid not. I'll just make it clear and compare a few things. Let's go in turn, when I was a little girl and went to my grandparents' country, and I know very well what the village was, they were in the country, there were three people who were being trusted. It was a priest, it was a teacher and it was a veterinarian because a gentleman veterinarian was coming and he had nothing to do with cattle that Mr. veterinarian had not come and that Mr. veterinarian had not said then in socialism he was a gentleman veterinarian that was something good. What do we propose with this law? Let's think about it carefully, we have on one side a veterinary inspection that was a little bit in the inspectorate, so a little bit at the Ministry of Agriculture, no matter what it was called, so we've put her back in the inspectorate again, with the conviction that it would work perfectly. We have veterinary cells that do their job and we introduce that extremely public-interest jobs can also be performed by a doctor of veterinary medicine as a natural person because now that veterinarians finish college they are called veterinarians of veterinary medicine, and says that he can perform under certain conditions. Don't forget the fact that in other legislation, we don't have the conditions to transfer public authority to someone, to a natural person. This will not work until other regulations change because they will not be able to do their job until they are told there what public authority they are. Let's take a step further, it's concluded that we have few experts on the market, which we have because they go with their belly after bread where they're sure they'll get a better job and get paid for it. And what did we bring in? We introduced that an authorised veterinarian could be someone who graduated from college and 6 months of work experience, or before he was 2 years old, and now we've put it on for 6 months. And then we'll transfer to him public authority when the conditions are met in other laws because in this law it's not, so let's be reasonable for my people, let's see what we're doing. Paper suffers, you take the EU directive even more than you can say in this article, which is defined by it under the conditions set out in Article 31(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So now we're just gonna have the law, and we're gonna have a regulation that we're gonna have to pull out all the time so we can do the law. And that can't be done until some other law changes. I listen to myself, and when someone listens to me, look at this woman over there, she's freaking out about what she's talking about. But that's reality. In law, we prescribe something for which there will be no formal basis, and professionally what it will lead to we will see what it will be and how it will be. I can only give you one more example to see what we're talking about. We in the whole story instead of clearly defining, to simplify, to allow inspectors to have in their hands all the tools with which they can act, we complicate it so that it gets harder and harder. If you have before you a law on, it is about veterinary law, so read Article 7 which says one regulation that may at all agree on that regulation from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture must give consent to the State Inspectorate or Inspectorate, must be given by the Minister of the Interior, must be given by the Minister of Transport. I ask you why there is no Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development? So instead of having some situations, that's why I said on purpose, so in my childhood I remember Mr. vet going out and he kept everything that was in that village and about agriculture under control. We're introducing something now, we're not introducing it. to the end, but then to the whole story as many participants as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36651	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36652	Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritaš is not the first time that a commission is set up not to solve the problem, otherwise we have a problem with in some way raping legislation, violently introducing directives, and when we do not have to, as we translate regulations that we cannot, we have not applied to the whole legislative framework, which must be introduced because of the regulations. But what I wanted to ask you is that if we take a hypothetical situation to fix the rest of the legislative framework so that this can really work in practice so that we have another level of supervision. Will this really change what happens and the food that we have on the market? Because our biggest problem seems to me to remain that regardless of the different controls and the results of the inspection, we do not have enough penalization in practice that changes that whole food chain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36653	The answer of the esteemed representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36654	Excuse me, I've been up to speed all day. So, the answer to that question, thank you very much for that question. The answer to that question is very simple. We're a country where we'll only see after the census as many of us as there are, but let's just say that we're very ambitious and that we believe that there are 4 million of us. In this country, when serious surveillance occurs and someone seriously punished, the whole country knows and is cautious. So, we here and there's also the distinguished representative Petir mentioned honey, we mentioned olive oil, we can mention other things, the first time the inspector comes out, determines everything that needs to be determined, it's a serious punishment, and it's on the cover of all the media and everything else, the result will be that people will take care not to be. We can have perfect laws. But reality will be something else. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36655	The next replica is a respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, so I think you put it very nicely, in fact, at the beginning of the first two sentences, what I was going to say. The purpose of this law is not disputed. The methods are. Not just these laws that we're changing today, but a whole series of regulations that have to be changed, but also the implementation and what you just said. When we really are those laws that we have, and many of them are good and good, they have consistently implemented them, then they will produce results. This is all chaos. Here's just one example for you is that many manufacturers have bought eggs, milks so that they can sell their products directly now we suddenly remember to fiscalize it and they will practically dump machines that have paid for 200,000 kuna, so much for our long-term thinking, planning and care of both the manufacturer and the consumer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36657	The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36658	Thank you very much. There's not one law, or I have to be clear to the end I'm discussing those laws that I pretend to understand and don't discuss any other laws. So there's not one of those laws where you don't have to wonder and you have to wonder what our current situation is and what we want to improve through the new law or the amendment and the addition of that law. That's why there's that explanation where you have to see the current situation that I'm having, that's the way it is, that's the problem with you, you, you and you, through these legal changes I want to improve it, that, and that and I don't mind that after and after that I think it's a good method, the law you have in place for a time of six months and a year conclude what's wrong with you and come straight up and say I'm changing and supplementing. But we're here being bombed by laws that, when in the debate, we know they're going to have trouble implementing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36659	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36660	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues in your presentation, you have presented several important items with which I agree, and I particularly refer to the problem that actually goes with Article 22, you have also mentioned it, where it says that the terms of the professional experience for the appointment of an authorised veterinarian from 2 years to 6 months are reduced. Here you can see in the law a number of tasks and jobs that this authorised veterinary inspector must carry out. Even counterpart Kolarek, in fact, as a longtime veterinary inspector, raised some doubt as to how it would work. The veterinary college is 12 semesters long ago, and we know that it's not enough experience, and especially how they're going to evaluate what are milder measures, which are stronger measures, how they sanction it. I'm afraid I don't know how it's going to work in practice. Here's your comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36661	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36662	Thank you very much. So we have two problems, we have a lot of problems, but relative to your question. We have young people who have completed colleges that have, so we have a certain education and we have a problem with them going out. And we have a problem that very difficult young people tend to work in some kind of system, in some kind of extreme line and as inspectors because they feel that they're underpaid, they feel that their possibilities are significantly higher. What would be of the state to get a quality fit, to get a quality fit to pay for it. So these are the problems we have. And now instead of seeing what we can do here, we always do it as if with an ax, as if you'd come and cut the ax. And so far it's like this, and from today it's different. I wonder, people, would you be ready after college education? which you have done and 6 months experience to accept such a job. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36663	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36664	Dear MPs, I think we all agree that it is necessary in time and in time to comply with EU directives, but the question is whether it is in the right way. Here's an example from this Veterinary Act. He says this, in some provisions of the law something is deleted because it will be defined in another law. Something's been erased because it's already contained in the second law. The question arises at the moment which provisions are actually respected, which law and what will happen when this is deleted, and in the second law has not yet been passed. We already had examples when we were talking about electronic media. We're passing the Law on Electronic Media, and we haven't passed the Media Act. So now and here, the exact same example. So we're passing one law, and we haven't solved any other regulation that would solve other problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36665	The answer to the replica of the respected representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36666	Thank you very much. So, I am one of those who will make it absolutely clear every time that I think it's a good thing that Croatia is an EU member, not only that I think it's good I'm convinced, it's better to be in a good society that makes you better. Equally, I do not think that this is a general process for the EU or a perfect process. Equally, the directives that are being adopted are being adopted and they make us all better together. But everything comes, but when you build on the directive as a first you have to understand it well, secondly you need to know exactly what the consequences will be on your legislation and on your story, and as a third you need to know what it means for Croatia and what it will be for the better. So, there, you always have to see your situation. I'm afraid she's cheating, and you can see that. That the embezzlement of a directive is without all of this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36667	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Stipan Shashin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36668	Dear Vice-President, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, these amendments to the law are in line with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, but as I have said with each other's legislation, i.e. with other laws of the Republic of Croatia. The main change in relation to the existing Veterinary Act concerns the taking over and defining the jurisdiction of the State inspectorate in the veterinary field. The adoption of these amendments and additions will bring the Veterinary Act into line or define the competences between the Ministry of Agriculture as the administrative organisation responsible for veterinary and the State Inspectorate in the field of veterinary and food safety of animal origin as regulated by the Law on Official Controls. The Act on official controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection and a single legislative framework for official controls throughout the agricultural food chain shall also ensure protection against risks to human, animal and plant health, animal welfare and environmental protection. These two draft laws are closely linked since import controls are defined by the Official Control Act, which is also the basic law for the adoption of EU Regulation 625 of 2017. The Veterinary Act constitutes a practical basis for the handling of veterinary inspectors as part of the State Inspectorate. The law on official controls accurately defines the procedure for the approval and registration of facilities in the animal food business. Proposals for a law provide for the possibility for competent authorities to investigate cases where there are doubts of non-compliance with legislation, the responsibility of removing irregularities shall be determined, and shall prescribe proportionate sanctions and penalties to ensure the deterrence of illegal actions. These laws are in some way complementary and allow for more quality implementation of the law on unfair commercial practices that we discussed yesterday, or debated in this house. In accordance with their application, the prescribed quality of the goods, in particular of animal origin, can be ensured. Such non-quality goods often appeared and imported at dumped prices and choked domestic production. Let us remember only cattle or meat from these same cattle or pictures of those sick and exhausted cows that appeared a few years ago from Poland that flooded the virtually European market with beef meat. Consistent application of these laws introduces order in the agricultural food chain at all stages of production, processing and distribution of goods, mainly of animal origin, ensuring overall market surveillance in the agricultural food chain, defining methods of control and sanctioning illegal operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36669	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Shaslin, this regulation is important in order to reduce to the least possible extent the malfeasances that occur in the food sector, in particular food poisoning that were present, but also to introduce order on the market and those offenders who really persistently repeat the same mistakes and fraud in a fair way so that they are no longer paid to cheat again. As you are the leader of a JLS, you have this touch and a wide range of communication with different inspections, as well as problems that naturally arise from the basis of the function you perform. I know you have an extremely big problem there in Baranja with the damage of wild boars, so I'm curious in this segment how many state inspectorates and their competent inspections can help bring this problem down to the lowest possible extent?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36671	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36672	Well, thank you, thank you for this question. In some ways, we also want to update it because indeed our farmers have enormous damage from game on agricultural crops. So far, this has been resolved differently, as in some ways landowners have agreed with the poachers. The veterinary inspection has so far been poor, practically not included, have included agricultural inspectors or inspectors for, the hunting inspectorate. It is now trying, here it is moving with an initiative to bring or to secure funds in the Ministry of Agriculture for the first time this year somewhere around 60 million kunas for hunting development or compensation, just compensation for those damages that come from savages. On the other hand, game is state property and state wealth, and we must also take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36673	Next replicas of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36674	Dear fellow, everyone would love to buy and eat Croatian, especially when it comes to meat as one of the most important and popular foods. However, what I want to ask you, as far as the work of the inspection is concerned, is it really better for Croatia or is it just one illusion that can be very well charged? Because I will remind you of the research done by other countries some time ago to find out that our meat does not actually satisfy the quality needed for export so that it can be found on their market and this is where we come to the basic problem, which is the work of inspection, the conditions in which it is stored and held meat that are later consumed by Croatian citizens. That's more expensive, and is it really better?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36675	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36676	Well, here, thank you for this question. This one is really hard to define and say that something is only Croatian because it is Croatian and quality or something that is from imports that is not quality. We have some goods that have been and today are brands, I don't know, of Baby Beef etc., the symmentals of our cattle that have been known around the world, but it's very important that what is declared or what is being sold to be real and true is that. We have a problem with imports of goods from, from, from, and from EU countries, the one that says that I do not know the quality of them and they are not. You see when you put a steak on, on the grill to keep a third of it away, that's what's left of the water eating. So it's very important that what it says on the product, that it really is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36677	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36678	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate. Here, our minister was in the morning, she left, I know she's got a lot of work to do, probably a reactive sense of how we're going to iron the damage that her ministry has done to the decisions she's made or made in the past. I've already talked about it yesterday, and I'm going to refer a little bit to it before I go to the law, that still when we're discussing agriculture, agriculture policy, colleagues and colleagues, keep in mind that it's a top European topic above all. The common agricultural policy constitutes more than half of the EU's multiannual financial framework. With that in mind, of course, we also need to discuss agriculture in this Parliament, but where we need to talk about agriculture the most is Brussels right now. And as far as Parliament is concerned, of course, and as regards the Commission, the Council, etc. Unfortunately, I still have the impression that we European affairs are experiencing as external affairs, that we are not yet, not used to it, but that we have not yet regained awareness of the fact that we are part of the EU's big common market and that our interests, except here, of course, should also be defended in Brussels. There are many EU countries of similar size and similar problems in agriculture. However, few of them with such devastated agriculture as we do, but still, we have a lot of co-workers and a lot of allies that we can address in the EU. I still don't understand why we don't use it, why we're so reactive, why and when we're installing EU directives into our laws, so much, they'll say, sometimes we don't care about our interests because the meaning of the directive is, of course, never literally copying, but embezzling into our legislation. Of course, in the framework and in the freedom that allows us the directive, that is, we always have a little room for maneuvering how we can bring it into Croatian legislation. And I will agree with my colleagues and colleagues who discussed it before me, the objectives of this law are absolutely clear. We all want quality, safe food and products on our shelves and for our citizens, or consumers. Of course, we want to protect both producers and consumers, but this is where we come back to it. Will this goal be achieved by this law? It also defines me as eradicating certain provisions of the law so that in the reasoning that you had accompanied you to say that it would be regulated by some other laws or regulations, which, when? We don't know anything about that, colleagues and colleagues. We don't have a schedule when we're going to pass what laws should be changed, etc. And we had a situation, unfortunately that's the problem with our legislation in general, not necessarily with one government, to change some regulations, or laws, and not to comply with other regulations, or laws, and then we have chaos. And I'm afraid that's how it's going to be now because the ultimate result of these changes is a completely chaotic and complicated system that will make business difficult for our farmers and entrepreneurs in the agricultural and food sector and only generate additional costs, and we are constantly calling on and declare and swearing on the reform and simplification of the system. It seems to me that the legal proposals we make, we do exactly the opposite, not to simplify, but only to complicate and what my colleague Lenart was saying, one producer I think could hire five or six people who would only take care of paperwork, regulations, harmonisations, counting, declarations, etc. So where is it, colleagues and colleagues? Moreover, in the light of the draft law, it states that additional resources in the state budget are not necessary. However, we did not get an estimate of the funds for official controls that should be provided by legal and natural persons, from the agricultural and food sector, in other words, entrepreneurs in which we again swear and what will be their cost. Okay, we're not paying it out of budget money, we're going to transfer it to them, we're re-created a new parafiscal imposition. In conclusion... points out, I'm afraid we're just complicated without making it easy on anyone in this chain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36679	Thank you. And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36680	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. I will agree with the beginning of your presentation because it seems to me that the implementation of the directives and regulations actually resulted in the euthanasia of our legislative work. Because what's happening to us now? We are often late, sometimes in time, very rarely before, introducing certain directives and regulations into our legislative framework. And that's supposed to show that we're doing something within HS. But no one has said that the only thing that we should do is simply introduce those directives, or regulations. Who has defended us from making and expanding and greater coverage of both this law and the Civil Protection Act and all that, let's say, and we know specifically what the situation is on the ground and we can fix the shortcomings, and we're constantly pulling ourselves into it, we're not going to do it now, one day, we're going to introduce the directives. And that's how we stand here, just nodding our heads. to regulations, and we're not making any side effects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36681	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36682	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, thank you for your rep. I would, so we discussed the legislative alignment plan, we bring it every year, and then we don't meet it neatly, so it's something that we're light-moving. Okay, last year has been challenging for a variety of reasons, and we can allow last year to fail to meet the plan, but you're really right when you say we're not just copying and entering into our legislative framework. We are here to think about how we are going to do this because no directive leaves you, well some, yes, some are very exact, but most of them leave you with some room of manoeuvre to adapt you to legislation in the way that you will least damage your producers, consumers or whatever the directive applies to, and we are not looking at that part, we ignore that part most often and we are fulfilling the form, and not the content, and the form is that we have introduced something into the legislation, literally copied it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36683	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36684	Your Honor. When we started introducing new rules for public tendering there in the 1990s, the conditions often began to arise so that someone could report to the competition that he must be satisfied or that he had an ISO quality system in place in his company. So we started to do it these years, and then after a year of working with consultants, we actually realized that our internal quality system that we've been doing for years, which has been building for 20 and a few years is actually much more stringent and much more quality than the ISO quality system itself prescribes, and we'd actually be sorry to destroy what we had. I think we're doing the same thing now with these directives. The fact is, we have to install it into our law, but the question is do we have to do it in such a way that everything we have is being trampled out and that we don't do it systematically? That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36685	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36686	Thank you, Vice President. You're right, we had a lot of well-functioning, well-functioning systems that we'd destroyed for a variety of reasons. Some because they have had the Stigma of socialism, former regimes or something, let's say the cooperative has come to a very bad vote, and look at the whole of Europe as well as a large part of agriculture is based on cooperativeness because small producers, when I speak small, I mean indicatively small, but manufacturers who don't have thousands of hectares, fifty thousand hectares can't have all the connections and be competitive, can't have all the machinery and be competitive. So, some parts of the farm were systematically destroyed because it was carrying the stigma of some of the former systems, and we weren't building on what was good. And every time we talk about European law, it's always a question of when, how, how much, and we're not answering anything, but here we're fulfilling the form.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36687	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36688	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic. We certainly agree, you're talking about how we're all for quality and safe food, but with the chief state inspector senior state inspector, the inspector gets a salary of 9,476 kuna gross, and unlike the chief state inspector, a real state inspector, journalist Drago Hadl, in his inspection of the Lucic family, you said the same thing last summer, he discovers that the family raised 16 million grants for its agricultural ventures, from which 10 senior inspectors or inspectors could be paid for 10 years, please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36689	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36690	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Matula. This will be an opportunity to get very deep into matter when we discuss the interpretation of the Slavonia project, but that's where you're right. And now that you don't get me wrong, of course if you're a member of a party and your family are members of a party, it doesn't mean that you can't accept anything from the state any incentives etc., but when you go a little deeper, when you see that these are just newly registered companies or companies that have never dealt with agriculture, then you get a little worm of doubt. And as an inspectorate, I think a colleague of Mrak Tarritash said it very nicely, when the State Inspectorate starts doing his job, when we trust him, and then we'll be first in line, then these laws will make sense because only when I see who the Chief Inspector of State is I don't trust a man like that who has a very, very strong party background, very strong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36691	The next replica is the respected MPs, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36692	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Hajdukovic about the importance and role of European legislation and the perception of our role on the European stage in general, so I am interested in how you assess the situation in which no Croatian Parliament is a full member of the Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament today at the time when we adopt a seven-year plan, a reform of the common agricultural policy, which is the longest and most expensive EU policy and when we feel even after this situation with a covid crisis how important this agriculture is and how necessary it is to help our agricultural producers, when we know that thousands and thousands of pages should be reviewed there and when we know that the amendment cannot be submitted by someone who is not a full member if there is no co-signation of a full member, whether this is good thinking and whether it might be desirable to coordinate such activities between different bodies in the future to be represented on committees where laws are actually passed? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36693	Thank you. Answer, Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36694	Thank you, fellow Petyr. We disagree in a lot of political matters, but I have to say about European things we generally agree on. And I am sorry to say with you we have actually lost a representative or advocate in the European Parliament who has exclusively dealt with these topics of agriculture. I don't know why it's a theme that our MPs are running from, so neither you nor I are an agronomist and we don't come from that profession, but we live in areas where it's very important and for Croatia it's very important. And when you take the budget size as much as it goes to agriculture it's vital to life. It actually disappoints me that people are running away from these topics, but we should coordinate definitely why we call our representatives in the European Parliament to the Committee on European Affairs. Perhaps it would be, the next step would be to call them on the Committees' resolutions depending on their memberships in committees in the European Parliament, so that they are in progress and that we are talking here, and then that they can convey it in quality and in their discussions in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36695	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Ankica Zmajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36696	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, fellow MPs. The Veterinary Law regulates the protection of animal health, the implementation of veterinary and public health measures, the improvement of animal reproduction, veterinary protection of the environment, official controls and inspection in the veterinary field. These amendments and the additions we are discussing today will bring the Veterinary Act into line with EU Regulation 2017/625 and delete individual EU rules that are no longer in force. Provisions relating to import controls defined by the Official Control Act as part of the roof law allowing the implementation of the EU Regulation where the State Inspectorate assumes part of the jurisdiction in the field of veterinary and food safety of animal origin and logic is that we have brought together today a debate on these two laws. One of the amendments and additions is also to enable the provision of specific tasks to other veterinary professionals with the responsibility of the authorised veterinarian. Then, it is proposed to reduce the professional experience for the appointment of an authorised veterinarian, and to introduce a possibility to apply milder sanctioning measures by authorised veterinarians for minor failures in the performance of their tasks. As a child of the village, as a child of agriculture, I would take advantage of the opportunity here at the pay phone and say that in our country, “the village is rich and strong if there are teachers, veterinarians, doctors and priests” and that is why in our villages where we have a cattle fund, veterinary activity is necessary and the role of veterinarians on the ground is very large. I will return to a distant, distant past and say that during Maria Teresa, the first time has been organized veterinary profession to deal with animal health and animal health, and especially with the protection and health of horses or horses were then the only means of transport, so much about the importance of veterinary activity. The truth is some villages and municipalities don't have veterinarians and a veterinary clinic, but here I am in the community, I could say we're lucky and we're satisfied because we both need veterinary services and they're necessary. Since the biggest problems of Croatian peasants in the field, in the barn, in the pighouse, these changes and additions to one law and another, it is necessary to enable the system to function as efficiently and efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36697	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36698	Thank you very much. My colleague, everything you said actually stands and I'm glad you're discussing it right from the perspective of Croatian villages. But especially Slavonic, but I've been paying attention to you, to each other's attention and to another fact, which is that I'm not worried that we won't have vets, I'm worried that we won't have cattle anymore. I would like you, as well as all other MPs, not only who come from Slavonia but who are concerned by rural areas to join together and actually send an appeal to the government to work more consistently and responsibly to protect the livestock stock and livestock that we still have. Here you have seen what has recently happened to the milkman "Meggle" in Osijek, what is happening in Bjelovar, how many people are actually giving up, dairy has been on our knees for a long time, and now we still still have to find ways not only to preserve what we have but also to improve that both livestock and agriculture in general... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36699	Dear MPs, Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36700	Comrade Hajdukovic, with someone here I agree with your statements, but here I live means in the country. My family's been farming for a long time, so they've trained me from agriculture and today's conditions that are I'd say whoever wants to work can live off agriculture. Is that there are some shortages of legal etc. There are many gentlemen in the village today who find it hard to hold chickens and not say the smaller domestic animals, and now I'm not talking about the male cow, etc. Well, whoever wants to live off agriculture is under some difficult conditions, but all these EU measures today allow normal life for us in the country that we want and love agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36701	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36702	Dear MPs, a few days ago we had a debate here in the assembly about bad trade practice and we almost concluded that we have products and plant and animal origin coming to Croatia that are far below the price, the cost of production and that our village and our agricultural producers can hardly compete with these products. Since you're coming from Slavonia, since you said your own family is engaged in agriculture, I'm interested in how in your environment are these controls that you are, which we need to adopt in these legislations today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36703	Dear representative Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36704	Dear counterpart Pavic, as far as the controls are concerned, there are no specific objections to these controls so far, but in those where today's law we are discussing will certainly improve these conditions. So through the purchase of cattle from the outside, importing, is a lot of this paperwork that needs to be filled out, filled out by certain testimonies, certificates, etc., and this, this, this, this, this, this changes and additions might make that part of the job easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36705	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the closing words of clubs, more clubs have come forward, the first one of the Homeland Movement in the name of which the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36706	Thank you very much. Dearly esteemed, therefore, Croatia, when it comes to supervision, since we are a full member of the EU, has no idea what it is and how it has entered the Republic of Croatia because there are no borders for the countries of Europe, so that, for example, someone from Slovenia can translate into a van of meat that he bought for his butchery, and later resell it to his friend in the area of the Republic of Slovenia, a friend who is a butcher. In particular, there is no border control that leads to statistics for EU countries, but only for countries, third countries. What's confusing is that the inspectors overlap especially when we talk about traceability, so work is duplicated. Also, the veterinary inspector does not inform about his supervision of the other service, so that there is no specific knowledge of what each other is doing, and so it happens to us that samples are taken with the same entity from, say, 3 services to different parameters, and then all this is charged to the subject. What there is is therefore 3 alone, 3 services, this does not necessarily mean stronger control but only means higher operating costs to our manufacturers without a clear result of whether it is his. The meat properly per category, therefore in other words, the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing, and all of this collects the work of producers because it pays for one control of 3 controls, and the record itself is piled up. What is an additional problem is therefore there is no coordinated action surveillance as it used to be, but with the inspectorate today they will not be because unfortunately the relevant ones have diminished the work of all inspectors from the inspectorates and in leading places such as those who do not know, and some without any supervision. In particular, we had an example of the chief who had no inspection supervision, he had just written several controls upon his arrival to the ministry first, and later at the inspectorate, but the work on the ground never went through, nor did he take the expert exam. He doesn't know what coordinated surveillance is, he obviously doesn't even know the team at the Ministry of Agriculture because they didn't have inspections at least not of that kind until they arrived at the inspectorate, and they wouldn't give it up and let the job be done properly to those who know how to do it. Also, the Ministry of Agriculture does not run a functional risk assessment and based on its supervision, but only accounts for the number of controls in order to achieve the greatest number of non-performing controls, it does not matter their quality and target but is the most seen number. Today there is absolutely no risk assessment method, and also on the ground inspectors cannot participate in the Central's thinking, cannot influence their surveillance plans, and there is no coordination between other inspections. There is also no regional co-ordination with counties, nor with other state administration bodies, so inspectors do not know which offices they have issued solutions for work. So let's say somewhere where the food store used to be when the inspector came into the field, maybe the butcher opened the butcher shop, our inspectors don't know that until they get to the front. As for the work of inspectorates, the situation will not be any better as long as the people who did this before do not agree on the system for it to be effective. Also, all national regulations apply only to our producers, but not to EU producers. So any service conditions will just feel our manufacturers and do it most in your pocket. The system should be agreed on in a way to make a plan of coordinated supervision over the year from various inspections per group of products to be sold, to be monitored in this system should both ours and under the quotes of the party. Our regulations should be completely abolished and the obligations with EU producers should be equated, and nationally we need to make a guide that will be available to consumers, which will define the concepts, and make a plan for the control of manufacturers using, for example, labels, they must be voluntary, so that the HGK or other institutions do not earn, so that they also collect domestic production, but also those using labels should be controlled multiple times by others in order to our manufacturers were actually sure of what they were spending and using. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36707	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ljubomir Kolarek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36708	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, since I'm 17. Worked as a State Veterinary Inspector and today is exactly the subject of the Veterinary and Official Control Act. I don't know if any of you were in a food business in a slaughterhouse big, high, small, some meat processing, etc. All these food business entities have their number, have a risk assessment of the size, produced, size of the facility, produced food and where it goes, have daily control, and have control from the national veterinary inspector precisely on the basis of a risk categorisation and these controls they do not pay. Surveillances taking place under the emergency procedure are exactly the controls that take place after the control of the authorised inspection and laboratory findings in case they are poor, so that doubting the work of a veterinary inspector who is now passing from one of the Veterinary Authority to the State Inspectorate to me is undeniable. They will continue to carry out their work professionally, efficiently and rationally, and it is certain that no veterinarian, authorised veterinarian, is interested in closing the facility. Also for each piece of meat or any product examined is the signature of an authorised veterinary inspector and he is responsible for it and I think that responsibility is very, very important for human responsibility. And also no one in the debate today has said a single word about education not only of the veterinary inspector and of the agricultural and sanitary etc., means that I think and think that a good foundation has been laid, it may change in other reading, complementing with more quality suggestions where it is needed and that the State Inspectorate can do the same veterinary inspection quality in order for our people to eat healthy food and, of course, the impact of this moment on whether this food is imported from an EU country or not, but I am a veterinarian by profession and when I went to the work of a veterinary inspector 20 and a few years ago, a lot of people have laughed at me, so what are you going to do because there was a lot of cattle, there were cows and pigs in the Međimur County, and today there are so many others, and the basic activities of veterinary organisations are just a veterinary inspection and a little practice while there is a little less practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36709	The next club of representatives will be the Mosta, and will speak the finally respected representative Marija Selak Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36710	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is one of those topics directly related to our citizens in the area that is daily and most sensitive, the area of what we eat, and what we eat is ultimately what we are. Unfortunately, such topics are much more often undetected than others whose consequences are not directly felt by all citizens, but perhaps the marketing media are cheaper. The main thing when we talk about the inspection that I think is essential is to point out that I have not heard a single clear strategy so far that will directly refer to this crisis, the coronary crisis and its effects on the meat market. Why am I saying that? We're for example. have had a situation when we talk about the EU-wide meat market that certain meat types have grown, their price and consumption while some other species have fallen. We had a meat price drop when we were talking about pork by 15% while we only had the drop 6%, which made us uncompetitive. Also, the excess pork that was present in the EU came to the Croatian market, while at the same time we had a non-competitive and excess production of junetine. And why does it matter? Because the coronary crisis has caused an earthquake on the meat market, not just at the health level and in our lives at some other levels. Are we prepared for that earthquake? What does this earthquake have to do with inspections? Large because this surplus that appeared either in our production that we failed to place in Italy, for example, as was a plan for June or some other expectations of the EU market as well as that surplus that has come together because some countries still do their job better on the Croatian market, and thus made our products uncompetitive somewhere currently exists and will continue to exist. Who believes this surplus will burn? Who believes that if it is frozen after 12 months or before the EU after 6 months, it will not be good quality for consumption that it will disappear in view of all the history of meat treatment practices in Croatia? Well no one believes it, that surplus will remain on the Croatian shelves. If our inspection is ready, if she's prepared a plan to follow the trends in production, here we talked about the most about meat, maybe it's the best example, but also all the other foods. What was happening during the crisis in order, accordingly, to strengthen its supervision in certain sectors to see where the surplus really ended. It's a basic problem, a lack of strategy. When we talk about this article. 22. The problem is perpetuated, and there are other dimensions of what Croatia is today. That's the problem with the kind of people we do in the academic world. It is not a bad regulation that after 6 months, the inspector can indeed appear sovereignly on the market, but the problem is deeper, have we succeeded in producing within our academic education and these directly applicable activities of the inspector who will be able to do so? The second question is whether or not it is produced in Croatia at all? I am afraid that we are not and that we are not, and that is why we cannot make such regulations that in some other countries make sense and are in itself good quality, to be implemented in the Croatian legislative framework. In our practice we will not have these people, there was a similar question with the law on reconstruction and how many years of experience it takes to have an authorised engineer of construction to allow him to do certain jobs in the restoration. So when we talked about tightening those criteria, then the answer was that there was no one to do the job. If we say "Buy Croatian", is the basic question, and the most important question is the inspection of how is it really Croatian? What are the conditions in which we keep the meat, what are the conditions in which we keep the supplies? So today we need to imagine what kind of food we really eat because the answer to what kind of food we really eat is the answer to the question we really have in Croatia? And what's she like? A beautiful, marketingly profitable, colourful, cubed envelope beneath which there is unexplored corrupt content that we uncritically consume. So we'll say yes, the inspection but that and a little more quality introspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36711	And the next final speech will be that SDP representative on behalf of the club, the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll sort of pick up where my colleague Selak Rasdic left off. What I would underline and what I absolutely agree with is a lack of strategic thinking. Not only in agriculture, we can apply it to all our policies, from external to internal, agricultural, economic, whatever you think of. And what is the result of such unconstitutional and unstrategic thinking? Chaos, like we have now. And in that chaos if you change one law, even with good intentions, sometimes it won't give the results it should give. It's like once a drop trying to put out a fire, it just doesn't work. I'm sorry to say that we've waited a long, long time for the Agriculture Development Strategy. At the time, I was a member of the Committee on Agriculture in this home when Minister Tolusic explained to us the priorities of his mandate as minister, one of them was a strategy of agriculture which is about to be completed. That was far from 2016. I think it was 2016. So here's five years ago. It was the priority of his term as minister, he stopped being a minister, we haven't had that strategy yet, there's a new minister, we haven't had that strategy yet, we've only recently discussed it on the Committee on Agriculture. Relatively recently, a few months ago, if I'm not mistaken. So, a very chronic lack of strategic thinking, that's the first problem, for agriculture, especially since it was known that every minister runs his own policy, every minister of strategic definitions sees in something else, then for a time we forced the mini-milks or the mini-economics by 8 to 15 throats, so it turned out, sorry, from 8 to 30 throats, so it turned out to be invaluable, and then we abolished it, people got into investments, so you can imagine what chaos is like. And all because of lack of strategic thinking. And another thing, especially agriculture is a matter of common European policy. Secretary of State, if you don't know, if the Minister doesn't know, so ask those who know, here you have a former member of the European Parliament who's just been working on the resolution board, there are other people who know something about these European affairs, who can help you lobby, who can connect you with people if you can't do it yourself. Well, it's no shame not to know, it's a shame not to ask, and the biggest shame is not to make or make a solution like this that we see won't work. In the end, in order to avoid the chaos of the government and which in my opinion will be even greater because of this poorly organized system, I will repeat what my colleague said at the beginning when she discussed the law on behalf of the club, I think it would be best to withdraw that. you withdraw as a Government all the laws relating to official controls from the parliamentary procedure in advance in order to reduce the suffering of all those to whom the law does not apply, as well as to state and public officials who must enforce those laws. This may result in a simpler, more efficient and coherent legal framework for the benefit of consumers and entrepreneurs and the general public, but it will not result in this unless we think of it strategically, in the long term and fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-26-0.u36713	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Thank you very much, Minister.
