ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u42934	Next in line is Honorable Representative Bojan Glavasevic, who will present the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u42935	Thank you, ma'am. Vice President. Today, we discussed amendments to the State Budget Rebalance Proposal and the opposition's amendments were rejected by the list. No matter how rational, doable and well argued they were. Amendments have been rejected, which set an example for us from the Green, MPs and representatives of the Green-Left bloc, proposing an increase in funding for earthquake recovery and greater funds for extracurricular activities for children in primary and secondary schools. Nothing we suggested was unreasonable, nor was it taking away funds from items whose reduction would do harm. But of all our rejected amendments, the most frustrating is the amendment that has been disqualified. And that's the amendment we asked for 42 million kn to be shot by the government in the missed Tri-sea initiative, invested in recovery after the earthquake. Let's go over the material a little bit. In the budget adopted by the Parliament, 15 million kuna was allocated for this purpose. And then the government, in fact, raised that amount to 54 million kuna, and then asked us here to support an additional increase to $96 million. In other words, almost, and yes, let's remember that 150 million kunas were already shot last year. In other words, nearly a quarter of a billion kuna is the government instead of for example. rebuilding from the earthquakes in Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and in Banja or Banovina, as who loves, decided to give for what exactly? A political initiative that is dead, of which Croatia will not benefit. For the secretariat of an initiative in which our taxpayers will not only pay HDZ's arrests, but also arrests from all other countries participating in this story. And all those kickings and under the grain. Our amendment that we asked not to increase the amount to $96 million, not that they refused, but that they disqualified it with a reason that it was the international commitments undertaken. But if so, and then why didn't they show in the first budget the full amount they're planning to give for this? The amendment disqualifies us in the hope of preventing a debate about this because they know very well that this story is simple, total bullshit. Shame on them. Shame. Croatian citizens and citizens will have absolutely nothing. And given how secretly they've done this increase, let's ask a question, how much more money are they planning to give for this? We have the right to know, we have the right to know why for the extracurricular activities of primary school students and high school students are given a miserable million and a couple hundred thousand kunas and a quarter of a billion dollars. We have the right to know why a quarter of a billion kuna is given instead of a recovery from an earthquake. Why didn't they increase the dynamics of the restoration because it was one argument that we heard here today? That you're meant to be and imagined and that's exactly how much they've separated, that's it, just enough. And it's not. Why didn't they predict more ambitious dynamics? We have a right to know why all of this is more important to them than the other things that colleagues and colleagues have proposed here. From investment in infrastructure in the Imot region, assists in teaching, children's playgrounds in the poor parts of Croatia, the rehabilitation of toxic waste, parents-gatherers, to the restoration of cultural heritage in Međimurje. Well, one message for them. If you're ready for this kind of thing, then be prepared and look our citizens and citizens in the eyes and tell them the truth. I'd say they keep a minimum of dignity, but that's pointless because there's nothing dignified about what they're doing. It's obvious by their priorities, but that's why I'd rather say something else. Don't be a coward, if you're fit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u42936	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Glavasevic. We're moving on with the club stand. Next up is the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa on behalf of which the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43022	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So for another in a series of corruption affairs discovered by research journalist Portal Telegram, I will talk about the causes, the consequences and possible solutions. We have 576 units of local and regional or regional self-government, which means over a thousand and a few hundred mayors, mayors, municipal mayors and their deputies. Many of them are HDZ's. Many of them are like Josip Saric, mayor of the City of Island, whom USKOK claims to have spent more than 700 thousand kuna in 5 years paying different bills than accommodations in luxury hotels, worshiping in expensive restaurants or buying gifts in perfumeries. He paid all that with official City of Island cards. Although Mr. Saric is the mayor of a very small town that officially has only 6 thousand inhabitants, he would spend five, six times a month in luxury hotels resident Antunovic, Pandora, Sheraton or Tuhelj spas. The card also paid for the bills of drinks spent in a hotel mini-bar. Sarić was also scattered in the town of Otok, where he bought towers, high quality wines, dry meat products, ties, perfumes, wide-use goods at the expense of the city. What is specific, Josip Saric, is also an assistant of HDZ Secretary-General Krunoslav Katičić, so he paid 14 members of the HDZ from the City of Island's account, which is unprecedented. Nevertheless, 2020 The town of Otok was recognised by the Institute of Public Finance as one of the very transparent cities and, regardless of all these affairs, it won its 8th term. Now, Mr. Saric should be investigating USKOK, and at the level of the entire state, we have only 33 judicial officials working in the USKOK, 33. 33 of them should investigate all units of local self-government and all companies owned by these units for such and similar cases, including those for which the arrests of people working in Zagreb Holding started today. To make the paradox bigger, apart from USKOK, we have a wider spectrum of state lawyers, there are some 600ths of them, and at an annual level they solve about 500 thousand different cases in which they conduct or participate in the process. It's close to 300 grand right in front of courts or public authorities. To make the horror story about fighting corruption even more difficult, I will point out something that is mentioned in the State's Attorney General's Report for this year, and it repeats the same thing that has already been pointed out several times, which is that since 2014, I have been stressing from 2014 in USKOK and in the 4 largest county attorneys in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and Osijek we have departments of property benefit research acquired by criminal acts. But to date, none of these departments are employed experts in the areas of finance, taxes, audits, etc. Because the depreciating conditions with too low coefficients are prescribed, so those places of financial investigators are unfulfilled, and their knowledge is necessary for the detection, freezing and confiscation of illegally acquired assets. In addition, all these years, the State Attorney's Office has said that there are additional problems, for example, in the confiscation of acquired property benefit in charge, because at the time of the execution of the executive procedure, the convicts no longer have property from which something alienated could be returned to the state budget. So these are the causes. The consequences are devastating, devastationed, evicted Croatia, a weak standard of living for our inhabitants, and the solution certainly cannot be a strategy to combat corruption that will work, prepare and adopt HDZ. A week, two, the government rejected my proposal to consider a draft Anti-Corruption Strategy, which I also referred to the Croatian Parliament, and I regret to say so, but a second and better solution than to move into a territorial reorganisation strategy, towards reducing the number of counties, cities and municipalities, from changing and reforming electoral legislation, to strengthening institutions within the justice system itself that will better carry out internal control but also significant strengthening of the capacities itself, the law enforcement bodies, from fighting corruption, will be nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43023	Thank you, Your Honor, we move on. And the last reported statement on behalf of the clubs is that of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and the position will be presented by the distinguished representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43087	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, the world is politically divided into sovereignism and globalism, i.e. sovereignists and globalists. Once that division was right, on the left, maybe there's still a division that's still worth it and it's conservative and liberal. And today being a sovereign in Croatia and not a globalist is here I am going to be concrete and give a few topics, the first topic is the Istanbul topic which slowly falls into oblivion, the fight against the Marrakech Agreement allows free migration without any order, to advocate the right to live the unborn, to fight against the introduction of the euro because the euro is the last dam of the sovereignty of our country, however, being sovereign is also working on projects, i.e. trying to contribute in its own country, in that financial, material aspect to the better standard of Croatian citizens. I come from Sibenik, subjectively I will, one of the most beautiful Croatian cities, perhaps not only Croatian, a city that has one of the greatest development potentials in our Sibenik, and probably many do, and I will take this opportunity to stress it from this place, and we have a zone that we Sibenik call TEF, today and we call Batižele, on one of the former bathrooms that is there. It is a zone that has 22 hectares, 220 thousand square meters and is one of the most valuable areas in general in Croatia on the Adriatic. The area is now owned by 67% of the city of Sibenik, the rest has state. And the area from one day ago, or the town of Sibenik, began yesterday with a public call for investors for the area. I'm going to use this place to invite all potential investors of the world to answer this open public call. So it is a public international public call, to show interest in the realisation of the development and investment project Batižele, Novi Sibenik, a step in the future. So, for those who are following this and the media that will possibly pass on, I must stress, as the Pelješki bridge is today the main investment that is happening in Croatia in the next period thanks to this decision by the City Council in Sibenik since yesterday, at a constitutional session, e Sibenik, precisely thanks to this project can become the largest Croatian construction site. So, all international investors, no matter where they are, seriously, of course, let them answer this public call that will be open from 1 August to 29 October, so 3 months, and this is it, I will repeat about one of the most valuable areas in Croatia, about a space that has a fantastic opportunity for valorisation and space, which will definitely contribute to one of the new Renaissance of Sibenik, so Sibenik, I am sure, except for its cathedral or its fortresses, beautiful nature, will also be known for what we Sibenik will do and build in this extremely valuable zone. So here it is, and it is sovereignty and this way can be shown how it fights for its country and its people or its city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43088	Thank you, Your Honor. There are no more applications for a position on behalf of the club. We continue, the next application for a position is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Nevenko Barbaric will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43279	I thank the esteemed vice presidents of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. The position of the Croatian people in BiH is one of the most important foreign policy challenges of the Republic of Croatia, and it is understandable what this is often about in this honorable home. Ninth... The HNS assembly was held in early June in Mostar, the dominant topic or reason for calling is an analysis of the current political and its relations in BiH, all in the context of the situation from the perspective of the Croatian people in BiH. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was called for another declaration to be adopted through the debate and conclusions, which sets out guidelines for negotiators, but also sends clear messages to political actors in BiH. What or who's HNS, who's doing it? On the basis of 2001, immediately after the amendments to the Election Law and the first removal of Croats from power were imposed, the work was restored in 2010 by all legitimately elected representatives of the Croatian people from the level of councilor to the highest positions of government. Currently, it is 14 parties with a Croatian omen through which 670 representatives of the Croatian people were elected at all levels of government and were all called as envoys. The reason for the establishment, to repeat, is to prevent the loss of constitutionality and political elimination of Croats in BiH. What does it matter to separate from the debate? One, the unique view of all is that various forms of constitutional, legal, institutional, political, media and any other violence have been implemented against the Croats over the past 20 years, and the highlight of this violence is the imposition of illegal representatives in the institutions of government. Two, the BiH division process is under way on a Serbian and Bosniak entity. Croatians become collateral damage, multiethnic decorations at the level of the folklore community. And under three, the Croatian people will not and cannot agree to BiH in which they will be humiliated, Majorised, to BiH with no Euro-Atlantic perspective. To clarify, Serbs have RS, openly show they do not want to build a functioning BiH, they do not want any BiH, the high representative in BiH is considered a tourist, openly calling for disobedience. The Serbian issue through RS is considered a temporary solution, linking RS with an economic, transport, energy and in any other way possible with Serbia, the moment when unification will be an effective issue with or without international verification. On the other hand, Bosniak politics openly advocates so-called A civil model, translated into an internal state through a carefully planned project. The first step is to find the constitutionality of the people, making it an open way to turn the Federation into a Bosniak entity. This does not include the choice of funds, the withdrawal of constitutional rights and constitutional rights to the Croatian people as an exorcised and just act. ... The halting of minority terror over the majority is threatened after the '22 elections, so the next general elections, the descent of the Komsic phenomenon to all levels of government and the full elimination of Croats from political decision-making. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia is accused of aggression, of meddling in BiH's internal affairs. Croatians destroy BiH, joint criminal enterprise, etc. So everything has already been seen, and Croats have been warning for years that the issue of constitutionality is the key to a functioning stable BiH. The fact is that domestic actors don't show that that's how they see it, and that's what they're concerned about internationally. On the Parliament itself, part of the envoys in the agenda tried to include very important topics such as demographics, nepotism, corruption, representation of Croats in institutions, relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Croats in BiH, all without prepared materials, analysis, proposals with flat-rate reviews, which the vast majority therefore did not accept around 97% of the envoys. Specially interesting are the charges against the Republic of Croatia, so not the previous governments, but these particular charges and the media lynch of the 11th electoral unit. Therefore, all problems are not blamed by representatives of local authorities in BiH. Representatives of Croats in all institutions in BiH or, say, representatives in the current councils, but only current representatives. The man doesn't know himself. He certainly didn't vote for you because he was an opponent on the other list. There is absolutely no insight into your work and your opportunities as a parliamentary representative, and yet rudely insults you. I wonder if this has anything to do with the invitations to move on to some right side in this House? Does this have anything to do with the current parliamentary majority? I wonder who the Croats in BiH can rely on other than the Republic of Croatia, trust? The Declaration itself, proposed at this session, has been characterised as a sterile document. Let me get this straight. It is indisputable that if anything else the Croatian National Assembly has kept the Croatian issue alive for the past 20 years, the current one. The joyful support of the Republic of Croatia, and the Declaration itself was unanimously adopted as a Work Report. It is supported by the leadership of the Croatian people in BiH that, based on the Mostar Agreement a year ago, respecting the basic principles of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the rulings of international and domestic courts continue the political struggle to ensure equality and the Croatian people in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43280	Please, time. Thank you very much. I'd like you to watch your time. [[CONTINUATION AFTER A MEETING AT 1 A.M.]] Now it's time to take the stand of the club's representatives. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta in the name of which the position will be held by the distinguished representative Marin Miletic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43376	Dear vice presidents of HS, Mrs. Glasovac, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues. I want to talk today about people in the Republic of Croatia who have Down syndrome, the Croatian public must know that at least here we are, according to current indicators in the Republic of Croatia, we have exactly 1,607 citizens who have Down syndrome. We're not talking about some high-profile yearly figures that the state should provide for these fellow citizens to have the right to a personal disability. We're talking more specifically about the amount of about 3 million kuna, so it's worth three government Audis, I don't know if they're hired to fence or buy them right away, but the government bought them, but they're worth three government Audis. I can't get tired of anything material being more important than our people than any man. I don't know, let's hire Skoda... Mazda and help with the difference in money for people with Down syndrome. She writes to me Mrs. Stefica, I won't mention her son's name even though she publicly writes on my public profile, says my son got a personal disability when he was four years old and after a few complaints and convincing the social worker that we don't write a complaint because that he's okay, he looks good. Unfortunately, those who should help us still stop us, these are public comments, so everyone can check themselves out. Mario writes to me like this, four years ago, a little old man came into my family who, like all the families with Down syndrome, turned his life on their heads. Of course we were rejected for disability because the witch was not enough cariotype to give legal diagnosis of a 100% disabled, it wasn't enough that she operated on her heart to survive with the probability of all the next operations. Petra writes, Mother, to me they're the best when I'm told at art, so he looks great to you. Yeah, as much as he can be with our naked work with him and the work of all his therapists. You get the impression of the skill that we should all actually raise our hands from our children and let them get as far back as possible to be bad enough to exercise the right to be born, writes Mother Peter. The biggest problems in our system are that the system is not even that it is not really just. The parent of a child with Senj’s syndrome also appeared to me from Senj or Gospić, Vinkovac, Sisak, Petrinja or Rijeka, Pula, Zagreb do not share the same treatment, they do not have the same conditions of concern and that is not just, that should be clearly said. There is no systematic solution for assistants or assistants or any more serious help to involve children with developmental difficulties. In schools it's still kind of settled, it's possible to get an assistant but it doesn't usually work well. The problem is that many teachers do not know for themselves how to carry out a complete inclusion aimed at helping other children develop empathy toward children with Down syndrome. The criteria for exercising the right to a personal disability are not uniform. Trisomy 21 is not enough to skill out personal disability and then what happens to you, such children have no right at all to enter kindergartens but depend on the local decisions of individual directors and how sensitive they are, they do not know the units of local self-government and how they view all these situations. We have good examples, we can't say there isn't and there's a lot of work, we can't say no, we have to be objective. I do not know HNK Ivan the noble Zajc has involved in the work of three literary services of a person with Down syndrome and thus became the first state institution to move barriers to socialization of persons with this diagnosis, but then, watch out for this because of the specific legislation they cannot achieve a working relationship because they would lose the right to a personal disability or because of the fact that their work capacity has been taken away. So it can be much, much better, it can be much, much more. And I really think so, so I filed an amendment to fix this. Adopt it in three months, copy it by ruling in two months, after this summer and the season of pickled pickles, but let's do what we can to help people with Down's syndrome, 1,607 of them, we don't have hundreds of thousands, and that we have one single citizen in the Republic deserved to be cared for as well as we as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43377	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on. The following is the IDS Representatives' Club for the presentation of the position on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Katarina Nemet. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43443	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleagues and colleagues. Not long ago, I warned of problems faced by high school students, public scholarships for deficit professional and crafts activities, or those applying for these scholarships. I then warned of the totally incomprehensible and unacceptable relationship between the relevant Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and Science and Education towards professional and craftsmanship, especially those which the state itself rated as deficits. Today, unfortunately, I have to warn one another, but in essence the same problem is again the state, or its Ministry of Science and Education, which does not show hearing for vocational educational programs. In particular, without a valid explanation, the Rovinj School of Education received this year a refusal from the Ministry on a proposal to set up new classrooms in a three-year education programme in combination with the interests of automechatronist and plumber, and a new class department of electroinstallers and electromechanists despite the fact that there is a considerable need for these interests in the labour market and in the town of Rovinj itself, but also in the whole of Istria County. I will add to this that since this year there will be no power to enter the economic direction at Rovinj High School called Montenegro, since it has also been abolished by the ministry's decision. Okay, the economist has too much to say anyway. However, the question is how many good economists there are, because I will mention here on the way that students of this Rouvin school have been down for years, and this year as winners of the Croatian Economic Olympics will represent our country at the International Economics Olympiad International Olympics in Latvia, and their award is to cut focus. Bravo, Croatia. Furthermore, the absurdity of the team is greater, taking into account the fact that on the one hand, the Ministry of Science and Education does not approve of setting up a programme for the craftsmanship of electricians and electrical installers, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development supports and scholarships exactly such programmes through its project of scholarship of students in the deficiting craft interests that I mentioned at the outset. With this mutual discrepancy and contradiction of policies implemented by its resolution or ministry, the government of the Republic of Croatia definitely does not send a good message to the public. But what is far more important here is to demotize and discourage young people from opting for a often stigmatized and unwarranted professional and craftsmanship anyway. I therefore believe that the Ministry of Education should certainly support young people in selecting deficit crafts interests, especially those defined by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, as well as units of local and regional self-government that best know the situation in their field. And this competent ministry, headed by Minister Radovan Fuchs, can do so in a very simple way by allowing these educational programmes to be introduced in the environments, or schools that need them, which are proposed and requested by passers-bys. Otherwise, students are simply forced to look for alternatives and ultimately opt for available directions and occupations that are most often in the labour market surplus and which they already know in the beginning will have problems finding employment. I absolutely believe that such important decisions in the education system should be made following a serious analysis of the situation in relation to the available and necessary secondary programmes in a city or county, depending on where the pupils are gravitating a particular educational institution. In this particular case in the entire Istrian county, only Rovinj High School has an offer of curvature programmes in the professions of electrician and electroinstaller, so shutting down such occupations would definitely have negative consequences for the entire county. I appeal therefore also to the Ministry of Science and Education, and Minister Fuchs to reconsider decisions that deny the possibility of enrollment in directions and programmes guaranteeing them a safer future and greater possibility of employment in their own city and in the county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u43444	Thank you, Your Honor. For today, we have two more points on the agenda, so we'll go straight to the next one, and that's: - MIP's report. So I'd like to ask the president of Mr. Robert Jankovics to file a report for us, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u44572	Your Honor, ma'am. Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Mandatoryly immune, there will be 6 reports in total. First it's MIP HS. It was discussed at the 15th session held on 16 June 2021. a written statement by Daria Zurovca on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty addressed to the President of HS by act of 1 June 2021. The Commission has established that it is based on Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. 1st century. The law on election of MPs in the HS rest in the parliamentary term of office of Dario Zurovec began on 30 November 2020, and that the parliamentary duties of deputy MPs began to act as Davor Find on 4 December 2020. Art. Paragraph 14 is 2 and 3. The law on election of MPs in HS is prescribed that the stay of the parliamentary term cannot take less than 6 months and that the stay ends on the eighth day of the written statement to the speaker of the assembly. The Commission has established that the legal requirements for the re-behaving of Daria Zurovec's representation duties have been met. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 14th century 3. The law on election of MPs in HS unanimously proposes that HS decide to suspend the term of office of MPs and cease acting as deputy deputies. Date of 9 June 2021 The term of office of representative Dariu Zurovec ceases. Davor Find ceases to act as deputy representative on 9 June 2021. Second, the MIP HS discussed the June 16th, 2021, session. a written notice from the representative of Tulio Demetlika addressed to the President of HS by act of 10 June 2021. Yes, on June 10, 2021. proceeds to act as Deputy Mayor of the Istrian County which is incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties in the light of the provision of the Article. Nine. Law on election of MPs in HS. The Istrian Democratic Assembly shall comply. No 42st century 3. The election law in HS has appointed Emil Daus as the deputy representative of Tulio Demetlika elected in the 8th constituency. The Commission has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Tulio Demetlika have been met by law, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of its deputy representative, Emil Daus. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 9th and 11th, Art. No 42st century 3. Law on election of MPs in HS, and Art. 9th century 2nd and Article 2nd of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 116. The HS Rules of Procedure proposes making a decision on the start of the term of office of MPs and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On June 10th, it shall begin the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Representative Tulio Demetlika. Mr Emil Daus, acting as deputy representative, in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. 9th century 2. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall start to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Exchange Institute. Three, the MIP HS discussed at the 15th session held on 16 June 2021. a written request by Agent Damir Bajs on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty addressed to the President of HS by act of 7 June 2021, as he ceased to act as incompatible to the conduct of the agent's duties. The Commission found that the suspension of the parliamentary term of office of Damir Bajs started on 22 July 2020 because of the incompatibility of its duties. 9 Law on election of MPs in HS and that on the same day, his deputy, Martin Grman Kivanat, began acting as a representative in HS. How Damir Byce is in accordance with article. 13th century 1 of the Law on election of MPs in HS, submitted a written request to the president of HS within the legal time limit, the Commission found that the conditions for the suspension of the term of office of office were laid down by law 8 days from the date of submission of the application. On the same day, the conduct of his deputy deputy, Martina Grman Kizivat, ceases. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, pursuant to Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 13 Laws on election of MPs in HS and Art. 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes to the HS the decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and to cease acting as deputy deputies. On 15 June 2021, the term of office of representative Damir Bajs shall cease. Vice-President Martin Grman Kizivat shall cease to act as deputy deputy representative on 15 June 2021 Fourth. The mandate-immunity commission of HS discussed at the 15th session held on 16 June 2021 a written notice from MP Tomislav Tomašević sent to the president of HS on 1 June 2021 that he would begin to act as Mayor of the City of Zagreb on 4 June 2021 which is incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties within the meaning of the provision. 9 Laws on election of MPs in HS. Party we can! the political platform in accordance with Article 1(1); 42st century 3 of the Law on election of MPs in HS has appointed Urš Raukar-Gamulin as deputy representative of Tomislav Tomasevic elected in the 1st election unit. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of MP Tomislav Tomasevic's mandate, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Urša Raukar-Gamulin. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, pursuant to Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 9th, 11th and 11th respectively. 42 Laws on election of MPs in HS and 9th century 2 and Article 2 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes to the HS to decide on the start of the term of office of MPs and to start acting as deputy deputies. On 4 June 2021, the stay of the representative's term of office for MP Tomislav Tomasevic begins. Urša Raukar-Gamulin's representative's duties as deputy representative in accordance with Article. 9th century 2 of the HS Rules of Procedure begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Exchange Institute. Fifthly, the mandate-immunity commission of the HS discussed at its 15th session held on 16 June 2021 a written notice from representatives of Ivan Celjak addressed to the president of HS by act of 15 June 2021 on the start of the conduct of the office of the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County which is incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties within the meaning of the provision. 9 Laws on election of MPs in HS. HDZ in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 42st century 2 The Law on election of MPs in HS has appointed Marin Piletic as deputy representative of Ivan Celjak elected in the 6th Election Unit. The commission found that the law laid down the conditions for the start of the stay of the representative's term of office, Ivan Celjak, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Marin Piletić,'s office. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, pursuant to Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 9, 11 and 42 Laws on election of representatives in HS and Art. 9th century 2 and Article 2 116 The HS Rules of Procedure proposes to the HS to make a decision on the start of the term of office of MPs and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On June 8th, it will begin the rest of the parliamentary term to representative Ivan Celjak. Marin Piletić is a representative of the deputy representative in accordance with Article. 9th century 2 of the HS Rules of Procedure begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Exchange Institute. At its 15th session held on 16 June 2021, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the HS discussed the written notice of MP Angelko Strick sent to the president of HS on 15 June 2021 that he had begun to act as mayor of the Varazdin County which is incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties within the meaning of the provision. 9 Laws on election of MPs in HS. HDZ in accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 42th century 2 of the Law on election of MPs in HS has appointed Nadica Dreven Budinski as deputy representative of Angel Strick elected in the 3rd constituency. The Commission found that the conditions for the start of the stay of the representative's term of office were met by law, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy deputy, Nadica Dreven Budinski. Following the abovementioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, pursuant to Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 9, 11 and 42 Laws on election of representatives in HS and Art. 9th century 2 and Article 2 116 The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously proposes to the HS a decision to open the term of office of MPs and to start acting as deputy deputies. On 4 June 2021, it shall begin the rest of the term of office of representative Angelko Stricak. Nica Dreven Buddinski's representative's office as deputy representative in accordance with Article. 9th century 2 of the HS Rules of Procedure begin to act when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the Exchange Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u44573	Thank you... Thank you very much, President Mandate-Immunity Commission. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. No one answered, and we'll vote on this when the conditions are met. We're moving on. The next item is: - Selection, appointments and resolutions; therefore, I would ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46604	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of Art. 105 st. 1 subst. 2 Art. 161 St. 1 and Art. 273 The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS at today's session on 17 June 2021 made several proposals for decisions to the HS. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS. As a member of the Committee, Nikola Mažar was elected as a member of the same committee on 8 June 2021, Ivan Celjak ceased to act as a member of the same committee for his term of office. The proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and the termination of the term of office of member of the HS Legislative Committee is elected: Nadica Dreven Budinski, since on 8 June 2021, the term of office of member Ivan Celjak has ceased to act in order to hold the mandate. The proposal for a decision on the election of a member and the termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the HS is being elected by Maja Grba-Bujevic, as of June 4th, the Committee member's office has ceased to act as Angelko Strac for his term of office. Proposal for a decision on the election of a Vice-President, the resolution and election of a member and the termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the HS Defence Committee. Ante Deur is elected vice president, and a member of the SS Defence Committee Ante Deur is hereby authorised. A member of the Defence Committee shall be elected Nikola Mažar. It's June 4th, '21. Mr. Vice-President of the HS Defence Committee has stopped acting as Angelko Strick for his term of office. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and the selection of members of the Committee on the Economy of the HS. Damir Habian is elected, but for a member of the Committee... Excuse me. Excuse me. A member of the HS Economic Committee Damir Habian is hereby authorised, and Nadia Dreven Budinski is elected as member of the HS Economic Committee. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Board of Justice of the HS. A member of the Justice Committee is elected Nikola Mazhar as of June 8, '21. Mr. member of the Justice Committee has stopped acting on behalf of Ivan Celjak for his term of office. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the social partnership of HS. The members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of HS Nada Murganić and Maja Grba-Bujević are hereby resolved, and Nadia Dreven Budinski and Tomislav Okroša are elected members of the Committee. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and the termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS. Nikolina Baradić is elected member of the Committee since 4 June '21. Mr. Board member's office has stopped acting as Angelko Strick for holding the term of office. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the HS. The member Ivan Radić is resolved, and members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of HS are elected Jure Brkan and Anita Pocrnic-Radosevic since 8 June '21. Mr. Mandate-Immunity Commission member's office has ceased to act as Ivan Celjak for his term of office. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the Vice-President of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, Vice-President of the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, Ivan Radic, and for the Vice-President of the National Council of Elections, Damir Habian is elected from the ranks of MPs. The motion for a decision to appoint an alternate member and to suspend the term of office of the Deputy member of the SS delegation in the SECEP Parliamentary Assembly is hereby appointed Jure Brkan for reasons, since on 4 June 2021, the duty of the deputy delegation has ceased to act as Angelko Strick for the rest of the parliamentary term. I Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership of the HS. A member of the Milica Jovanovic Committee is hereby authorised. These decisions will be published in the National Journal and will take effect on the day of their adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46605	Thank you very much to the board presidents. I'm opening a debate. A representative, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, called for the debate. Here you go, counsel. There's no one in the name of the clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46606	I would like to thank the esteemed vice presidents, the esteemed presidents of the Committee, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. You know, when someone throws a ball at love, that's how I feel right now. So what the president of the Committee reads is perfectly acceptable to us and is part of the usual long-standing parliamentary practice that certain seats in HS are filled from the quota of certain clubs according to the pre-arranged relationship of most minorities and afterwards, within the opposition both within the majority and with one, so far a very clearly respected agreement, except in one case, which was corrected, that one party does not enter into another's human selection. There were certain situations where sometimes HDZ could try to object, but it never happened to fix it. And then we're surprised when our.../incomprehensible/... then we're very surprised when our IDS colleagues behave much worse than they behave from HDZ, that I don't insult my HDZ colleagues, so let's say we dare to put ourselves in the opposition's position to humanize within the SDP Club in their county assembly and where they can and where they stand for tolerance, European values and all that they stand for, show their true face like that sister-in-law in the forest of Strebor when they see a snake and then crawl out their tongue. I welcome my colleagues from the IDS for their long-standing co-operation with HS and government, when we had the chance to get a little cool, and to say to their county that they stop acting arrogantly, to reconcile with the new situation that they have lost something because if they continue to do so, they will lose even more. This is exactly what I mean in the subject because it's about the principles of fulfillment, it's not gonna be like that,.../incomprehensible/... thank you, therefore, that just such things don't happen. A colleague rejected as vice president of the assembly received 49.99 and a few more decimals per cent of the citizens' votes, but see, they are not good enough to be vice president of the assembly. Perhaps we are motivated to continue to go within this time limit to seek control of the legality of the elections in the Constitutional Court when we were unable to do so in the control of the ballots. Which,.../incomprehensible/... and I want to say another sentence, I missed, my mistake, the MIP report, but I think that, as 30 years go by, it's not good, that this is a administrative procedure that should not be voted on, that future what the MIP is doing should be done by the DIP and just inform HS, because I see that Mr Jankovic also approves that some things, that things are good, that are good, that they continue, such as these party arrangements on quotas, and these bad things are simply interrupted. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46607	... Thank you, Your Honor. [[Specially enabled.]] You have two replicas, the first one is the distinguished representative of Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46608	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleague. I'm really glad that this part of your.../incomprehensible debate didn't refer to any form of criticism to the work of this committee, is it, which has now had a series of these proposals on which I am the president since all this time I've really tried to have communication and I believe that we will continue to do so. I didn't follow the situation in Istria or the IDS, all of what you said, and I won't look back on it. You know, it's not good when we say they behave worse than HDZ or they act worse than the SDPs, and that depends on us and the individual environments. As for these days, we are monitoring the constitution of different councils and congregations. Here I can say that I am sorry that there was no opposition in the town of Karlovac, i.e. the SDP supported the majority proposals of the president and deputy assembly, and, behold, HDZ supported the SDP proposal for the deputy council.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46609	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, please be my guest, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46610	Thank you. So the parliamentary majority always has a higher responsibility because there is no decision without it. If the vote was about showing that it does not belong to the parliamentary majority and that relations are defined and it has shown that it is, therefore, about someone being a government, and some opposition, then at that first vote it can be tolerated in some way, I am quite sure that, for example, the change within your quota in Karlovac would be a vice president, so that it would be unanimous because it would already determine who the majority is, who the minority is, and then it would be so, unless it's just a case that someone just for individual reasons, one or two votes, and then it's because of these personal reasons that someone can't be supported. Besides, we're at Parliament's constitution, we didn't all vote for one of the vice presidents, but no one voted against it. So there are always such situations, but the decision was made anyway. So this decision here, it hasn't been made. And that's where they fell on the test. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46611	Thank you. You have another replica, the esteemed representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46612	Thank you, ma'am. Vice-President of the Parliament. Comrade Bauk, today we had a debate on budget rebalancing before this and then she was, I would say very, very scarcely, given what debate on budget rebalancing is in this House I remember, and so are you, even more than I do. My question to you, on the basis of your debate, I ask you not to take it as a provocation, why is it that what you said to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia is important? You were talking about something that actually isn't a reference to the report itself, you were talking about the principle, but when citizens and citizens listen to us here, I mean, what do they need to get out of your exposure as important? So I'm not asking as a provocation, I'm actually trying to get a sense of it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46613	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46614	So given the fact that our citizens, these older ones, these younger ones learn from books, more than a decade have lived in a non-democracy system, then the level of democracy in Croatia, and in all other countries, is one of the most important things, for me personally, and believes, for most of the citizens who voted for my party. So we, we didn't believe that we were going to see that they were going to invade Capitol Hill because of democracy and that a police officer was going to die for the defense of democracy in the so-called. the most democratic land in the world. In each other they write about the state of health and the life of one of the opposition leaders, that's the other so-called. Superforce. So when we talk about democratic standards and the state of democracy, it's the most important thing, at least for me. Because behind that, everything goes on or we quote Benjamin Franklin, it's popular, who's ready for security to sacrifice freedom, doesn't deserve either. That's how I do, so if someone is called democratic, and they're anti-democratic, that's what needs to be reacted, and that's the most important thing to me. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u46615	Thank you very much. You're way out of time, but good. ... That's why I need to see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, since there are no more requests for discussion, I'm finalizing the debate and we'll vote on this when the conditions are met. This closes today's HS session. We continue our work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on agenda, first, Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088 on Sustainable Publications in the Financial Services Sector and Regulation (EU) 2020/852 establishing a framework for facilitating sustainable investment and amending Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 144. After discussing this item of the agenda, a vote will be held at 12 o'clock. Thank you all for your arrival today, for your participation in the debate and for the pleasant rest of the day. I'll see you tomorrow. Session interrupted at 14.33 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50865	Now we go to what I have, which is the most significant and where we have the most amendments, and this is the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and the projection for 2022 and '23. g. In addition to the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and '23. The proposals were also submitted for amending and supplementing the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries for 2021 and projection of plans for 2022 and '23. with an explanation for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, Centre for restructuring and sale, Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Croatian highways, Croatian Travel Transport and HZ Infrastructure. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by Boška Ban Vlahek, representative Vesna Vučilović, representative Nikola Grmoja, representative Ante Kujundzic, representative Marin Miletić, Club of Representatives of the Green-left Block, representative of Katarina Peović and representative of Miro Bulj. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments submitted. First things first. There's State Secretary Zrinasic. The first is the amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50866	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The memory of Jasenovac area and the marking of the anti-fascist struggle in the Republic of Croatia are agreed and taken over in the amount of 321 thousand kuna and are in accordance with the programme of organisers in the most part and implemented. Therefore, further increases are not necessary, and in the context of the proposed reduction of funds in the context of the memory-marking activities of all totalitarian and authoritative regimes, we are reminded of the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in force in the Republic of Croatia, and given the marking of the 23rd August European Day of Remembrance of victims of totalitarian and authoritative regimes, Nazism, fascism and communism, it is prescribed that it should be planned for the participation of HS in these labelling costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50867	Thank you very much. Please show representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50868	Good afternoon. So, in times of crisis, the causes of the pandemic Covid-19 are incredible that new items are introduced into the budget, especially this character, meaning some of the key activities are suspended precisely because of Covid pandemic to introduce therefore new markings on memories, is it the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes in practice which is an attempt to equate the working anti-fascist movement with the fascist and Nazi regime. Communism is largely condemned, while other totalitarian and authoritarian regimes actually serve fascism and Nazism exclusively as a tower in the service of equating these ideas. This is also seen in the celebration of the last European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes in 2020. On the occasion of that day, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic honored, quoting, the victims of the communist regime on the Gol island, while saying that communism as, quote, one of the totalitarian systems that marked the history of the 20th century, but the Croatian people. Equality of a socialist idea with fascist and Nazi simply does not stand, and this is particularly highlighted in Croatia. The National Liberation Antifascist Movement of Croatia, which was also a socialist, was also recognized by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as the holder of state sovereignty, which is also seen in the decisions of ZAVNOH, while the Constitution, therefore, is listed as the legitimate origins of the establishment of the state sovereignty of the modern Republic of Croatia. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not call for the fascist Quislin puppet NDH, but clearly states that it was contrary to the state and state sovereignty of Croatia. This is also seen in the conclusions of the Nürnber processes which NDH does not recognise as a state but as occupied territory. For these reasons, no funding should be made, especially at this time, of these markings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50869	Are you looking for a vote? Okay. [[I'll ask for a vote.]] Now let's go to Amendment No. 2 which is related to the State Election Commission. The amendment was submitted by a respected colleague Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50870	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Law on the Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the conduct of state authorities, local and regional (regional) self-government, the means to pay for the implementation of the State advisory referendum are settled from the state budget, while the funds for the implementation of the local referendum are implemented on the burden of the funds of local self-government units and, in that sense, the DIP is not responsible for the development of software for the implementation of local referendums as this amendment was planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50871	Here's a colleague of Miletic's, obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50872	Dear President HS, Mr. Jandrokovic, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Sir, the Republic of Croatia is an EU member, an organisation that proudly highlights its democracy as the true foundation on which it rests. Each democratic community seeks the greatest involvement of the local population in political processes, as well as in making decisions that are important for its functioning. The JLS on a daily basis make such decisions. We believe that an important aid to all JLS would be the availability of software for the e-referendum. For example. The town of Kastav, as far as I know, is the only public saying that it is introducing it, which would allow the opinion of the majority of the interested population. The Ministry of Administration should enable any interested JLS to use such software. A projected increase of 1 million kuna would be used to develop software for e-referendum implementation in JLS areas, so I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50873	We'll vote on your amendment. We are now going to the amendments to the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care. Amendment No. 3., re-legate Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50874	The amendment is not accepted. The planned financial resources in the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget in this position are sufficient for this year, and in the context of the positions from which these funds would be settled are provided for the spiritual care of ministry staff and armed forces in accordance with the contract between the Holy See and the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50875	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50876	Well, I'm sorry you don't accept the amendment. I suppose we'll be in this tone by the end of this day, but why is it important to increase resources? So, in the special section, Art. 3. in the 40th Social Care, under the housing care of victims of domestic violence, the amount of 350,000 would increase by 500,000 kuna. So it's about extremely small funds that are insufficient to provide housing for victims of domestic violence, which has been warned by women's associations for years and this amount can't even be more significantly reduced by the problem that exists, but it would certainly, at least symbolically, have been warned that this is a problem that needs to be dealt with systematically anyway. This item of spiritual concern in the Ministry of Defence does not, unwisely, have larger resources that are truly significant, so 9 million 90 thousand 500 kuna even comes to that item, so in the Ministry of Defence, chapter 30 spiritual care, and now we see whether we are more concerned with the victims of domestic violence or the spiritual care of the military. I will definitely ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50877	Thank you very much. We will also vote on this amendment. We are now going to the 4th Amendment, it is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, and here with us is Tatjana Vukbratović Spasović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50878	Your Honor, I would like to thank the chairman. So, Amendment No. 4. is not accepted because of the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 25 February '21. on the allocation of donated financial resources paid at the expense of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the ‘Help for Reconstruction after the Earthquake’ operation amounting to € 103 million 536 000 537 have been allocated to the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care and this is for the implementation of the reconstruction programme in the area where it has been declared a disaster. The analysis of the need to amend and supplement the state budget increases the financial resources by 11 million 358 thousand 929 kuna and the funds are sufficient for the reconstruction and projection activities by the end of the year for all analyses at this point, as they relate mainly to not construction renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50879	Here's an indication, colleague Glasevic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50880	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to admit that it's fascinating to me that, in fact, it's a relatively small amount in view of the damage that has occurred in the areas affected by the earthquake. I mean, the amount we suggested to add to this isn't too big, comes among other things from a position relating to administration and governance. So what with that money you can do at the Department of Defense, hire someone, buy some computer program, fix the air conditioning, I mean, I know, I was in that ministry. And on the other hand with a million kuna on the earthquake affected area you can do wonders. So, I think that those needs that show up, okay, have to be in line with some possibilities, but if there's a way that we can do a lot more with these million kunas in a different place than where you halluced them, I think we can think even more ambitious than what's originally maybe suggested. So, here's if you look at the state of Bani or Banovina, as anyone loves, I really think that, that these million kunas that we suggest are added to this amount so that they can be much better used than at the position they're proposed for. We'd like to request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50881	We'll also vote on that amendment. We're going to the 5th Amendment, the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50882	Amendment 5 is not accepted. In fact, the content of the amendment is the same and the amount is slightly higher. So also by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 25.2.'21. The distributions are funds, these are donated funds collected for recovery after the earthquake and this and are increased for, not to say again, 11 million 358 in order to be sufficient because it is not the construction parts of the destroyed houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50883	Here's your obvious, fellow Glavasevic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50884	Thank you. So it might still be important, so the same target is the same distance you said yourself, but maybe you should add something else. If we're talking about the funds collected in the humanitarian action, it's nice, so it's solidarity for our citizens and citizens with recovery after the earthquake. However, we also send a strong message to the extent that the state is willing to place taxpayers' funds, so public money for such a purpose. Again, the amount we have proposed comes from a single position that, if we look at priorities, of course it is important to collect and process project documentation for funding from EU funds. I think of what it is again the Croatian Defence Ministry which, therefore, is another ministry or other body on the subject can jump into the Ministry of Defence and help with this, and the funds that we have proposed to give for this I think they are sending a message that the state will not rely solely on humanitarian aid in the restoration after the earthquake. If it is a reconstructional reconstruction I think there are so many other things that need to be restored as well, so I think it would be important and that the much greater effect of these funds would be in the recovery after the earthquake than in this position it is currently in. We'd like to request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50885	There'll be a vote. We're going to the 6th Amendment again Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50886	Amendment 6 is also not accepted because it also refers to the recovery after the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County of state-owned facilities these are the funds contracted by a tripartite grant agreement for reconstruction projects. May 26, '21. The contract was signed in Petrinja, which refers in fact to 2 projects, the restoration of a family home owned by the Republic of Croatia in that area and removes the construction of replacement housing units owned by the Republic of Croatia in the earthquake of affected areas. I was funded by European funds through the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion for the period from 2014 to 2020, until the end of '23. A year. So the financial resources are defined by that contract, they are planned and unfortunately cannot be modified by any additions, of course, that a certain amount of 5% will be paid by the dynamics that will come from the state budget. The deadline for implementation and the end of that programme is the end of '23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50887	Here's another indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think everything is always a matter of priority, so when I hear it can't and when it comes from the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as I would say, I have a problem with it simply, it can't be something that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can't do if there are priorities that dictate that and who are common sense in the end that it should be a priority and that it should be done. So it's a similar situation with another amendment that we've been denied, not much about it, but where it's said that for initiative 3 must be given 96 million kuna. Well, you don't have to do anything unless it's a priority. I mean, you're the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you've been given the mandate of this assembly to work in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and our priorities are such that, apart from the pandemic, we've been hit by devastating earthquakes and, as you might say, this university million kunas won't feel, I've said that many times in this debate, but every kuna invested in reconstruction after the earthquake is a kuna worth 5 times more. And it's really all about priority. Don't go with the attitude you can't, you're the government, you have to be able to, that's what citizens and citizens expect from you. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50889	We will also vote on this amendment, thanks to the Deputy Secretary of State, so we are now on our way to the Ministry of Culture, with us the Honorable Secretary of State Kresimir Partl. We're going with Amendment number seven, MP Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50890	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, calls for funding of the programme. The programmes received shall consider and evaluate the Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. If the programme is registered to the Ministry of Culture and Media tender, it will be discussed and will make the appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50891	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, the program hasn't been reported in years. For years, the town of Imotski, as well as everyone else at the end of the city and the towns and units of local administrations and self-government, has had executive power, in this case the executive power in the town of Imotski comes from the ranks of HDZ. I have proposed this amendment to the state budget in November and I repeat it and I will repeat it. Why is it not in anyone's interest to report this I don't know, but I don't know if you are aware of the cultural significance of the fortress Topan, whether or not you have seen its location above the blue lake on the ravine, whether you are aware that it is one of the most important medieval fortification facilities in the interior of Dalmatia, are you aware that by approving this type of project you would raise the tourist quality and offer of the Imot region itself. And at the end of the years you repeat not specifically you, but the government as such released projects that are implemented in Dalmatia and then in the Imot region. Here I would like to specify in a period, more precisely the time that we have left at least 1 that is realized from this area which is in the Imotian region, which is in the area of the Imotian region or specifically the entire Dalmatian mountain, and then also the rest of Dalmatia. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50892	We will vote on this amendment. We're going to Amendment number eight. It's the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50893	The amendment is not accepted. So the reasoning as well as for the previous law on public funding is called for for funding, the programmes reported are discussed, valued by the Council in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils, if the programme as such is declared the same will be considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50894	Here's a statement from counterpart Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50895	Thank you, Chairman. Continuing on the previous amendment, unless I am wrong in both the upcoming and actually in the previous local elections, HDZ candidates received support from the ruling ones. The Mayor of Split from 2017-2021 was also from the ranks of Mr Andro Krstulović Opera. I don't understand that something that makes all of Dalmatia proud, and it's certainly Diocletian's palace for years at any major floods of the basement, comes up with a form of devastation where the bush falls, where the fuges end up on the ground as such come out. For what reason has none of you been responding to one of the systemic concerns seen in the region of Dalmatia for years? We will also ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50896	Let's go to Amendment No. 9, MP Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50897	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture and Media, as well as in previous answers, calls for a public call, are related to the Law on the financing of public needs and the Law on Cultural Councils and, accordingly, they are considering and proposing funding programmes. If the same program is reported, the answer is as previous.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50898	Here's an obvious friend of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50899	I might be able to soften up the secretary of state a little bit. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues. It's about a launch ramp torpedo, primarily designed as a lifeguard on the coast, and maybe we don't understand each other, if you don't save our launch ramp, it's going to fail to the end, and it's already gone almost to the end. 1870. built as the world's first launch ramp in 1930, '35. I think the modernization is over, the industrial heritage not only of my City of Rijeka but of the entire Kvarner and of our entire country, our country, our beautiful Croatia. Since the local government in our country is still in charge of the SDP, what are we going to do, colleagues are not going to go there, so they have not been able to agree with us that the Port Authority with the Ministry to restore the launch ramp. It's been 30 years, so it's amazing. And here I am asking you to think, to find some schemes in which we could do it not only for our people but also for tourists and all those I really believe would be worth restoring one of these great things in the field of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50900	Let's go to Amendment No. Ten MPs, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50901	The amendment is not accepted, as is the case for the previous amendments. The Law on Cultural Councils and on the financing of public needs... programmes must be notified through a public call, valorised by the councils and, if declared, appropriate decisions shall be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50902	Thank you. How many colleagues of Bulja are gone, we'll vote on that amendment. We're going to the 11th Amendment of Representative Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50903	The amendment is also not accepted, as in previous reasons, by the Law on the financing of public needs and by the Law on Cultural Councils, clearly prescribe procedures for the allocation of funds to programmes which have been declared.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50904	Thank you. The project reconstruction and revitalization of the fortification of the Old Town of Čakovec, whose user of Međimurje County, includes the revitalisation and reconstruction of the largest cultural monument in Međimurje County, but also the most valuable monument of feudal heritage in Croatia. The old town of Zrinski in Čakovec has an immeasurable value and is a historical heritage in memory of the noble family Zrinski and Frankopani of the Croatian Ban and the prince. The project was implemented by the Međimurje County initiative with the funds of eu funds and was reconstructed Old Town and converted into a Museum of Intangible Heritage with all the accompanying contents, the value of the project is 42 million kuna, of which 36 million kuna is approved but due to additional statistical recoverys and construction and conservation interventions, it is necessary to provide an additional 6 million kuna which the budget of Međimurje County, given the original revenues, would be difficult to bear and at this point represents a huge financial cost. Given that this is a national important project, I propose that the required amount in the state budget is to secure the funds because, except for this project, the Old Town of Zrinski in Čakovec shined in full glory this year is 400. The birth of Nikola Zrinski, 350th anniversary of the heroic death of Peter Zrinski and Fran Krsta Frankopan and the 10th anniversary of the death of Peter Zrinski and Fran Krsta Frankopan, which is marked on 30 April. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50905	We'll also vote on this amendment. I'd like to thank Secretary of State Partle, so we're moving on to the Ministry of Agriculture. Now a respected colleague, Tugomir Majdak, will be gossiped also by the secretary of state. 12th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50906	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and MPs. So the amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Animal Protection Act, the establishment of an animal shelter is within the jurisdiction of the units of local and regional self-government and of the costs of establishment. The Ministry of Agriculture was in May 2021. establish a communication with the European Commission on the possibility of financing shelters or asylum for unsettled animals under the Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014-2020. As part of the basic service measure and the restoration of the village in rural areas or type of operation 741, investment in the launch, improvement or expansion of local basic services for rural populations including leisure and cultural activities and related infrastructure. Following a positive response to the European Commission, the Ministry of Agriculture has already begun preparations to amend the programme, which would allow investment in shelters for unsecured animals within the framework of operation 741, therefore within the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50907	Here's a colleague of Petrov's, obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50908	Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is an amendment that I have proposed before and that I will continue to propose because as I see it for the last two years, nothing moves from a dead end. So again, Dubrovnik-Neretva County is almost the only county that has no legally solved animal shelter. There's no legal way. The shelter that exists for you, the animal shelter that exists on the Žarkovica above Dubrovnik is unregistered, it is otherwise a city where the power of your ruling majority is now being exercised. And he should fight for this, and it's no problem for me to ask you as a state government to single out 10 million kunas, the rest I believe will find both the mayor and the mayor. But I think it's time to finally solve this problem. Thanks only to volunteers today, only volunteers who are present at Žarkovica, you have no problem with the angry pack of dogs with which there was a problem in Dubrovnik 10 years ago, which is not registered, it is illegal, and you two have been doing nothing about it and today you are telling me that you will withdraw funds from the EU funds. We're gonna wait a few more years for that? Will it be successful, as it has been successful in the last seven years where you haven't even pulled 40%? Will the withdrawal of funds and the resolution of Žarkovica depend on your ability to prove yourself unproven? I don't mean you personally, looking at all of you. I don't want it to depend on it, and I don't want you to move so slowly and detach local self-government. When they don't matter to you like that, leave them alone. Then don't take the revenues from local self-government into the state register, so they'll find their own money for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50909	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much, Secretary of State. [[Intruder: Of course.]] We are now going to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and also Secretary of State Allen Gospocic will respond to several amendments. The first is the 13th in a row of MPs Marin Miletic. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50910	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable parliamentary representatives. As regards Amendment 13, the amendment is not accepted. Under the 570-509 construction and maintenance activities, funds are planned for maintenance and construction of port infrastructure and for protecting and improving the use of maritime goods. In this way, it will significantly increase the efficiency of port activities and thus the value of concession in the port area. The planned resources for 2021 are available within the framework of the activities to cover all investments according to planned dynamics and project implementation. The proposed amendment includes the creation of a project documentation, construction works for which the remaining part is in '21. Mr Unreal expects the payment of the services and works carried out in the proposed main source, and the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds that would be reduced by the proposed amendment provided for the financing of already agreed civil society projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50911	Here's an obvious friend of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50912	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable President of HS and the Honorable Secretary. I'll be clear, I think both the authorities and the opposition should be in order to help the citizens, and now you need my help again. In the river. Because my mayor of Rijeka, a new one, Mr Filipović, and with us, the SDP is still in your power, is he promised to build 1,000 apartments, 2 kindergartens and a bus station, quite a nice megalomanic project. Now, if you don't help us resuscitate, re-route the Exportrva facility in Rijeka in the area of maritime goods, which we all know, under port management, we won't succeed, and this project is needed for all the Rijeka and Rijeka. The river as the European Capital of Culture 2020 marked in its programme direction the important points of the city on the move from Hartera to Mololong with the central object, the hack of Exportrva on the Delta. Since the entire EPK project has remained incomplete, and in line with the new context of Rijeka as the capital of sport, because we have now become the capital of sport, thank God, it is meaningful to use existing ideas, infrastructure another new content, extensive city center, hall of Exportrva and space in its surroundings, it is necessary to re-use which, apart from art and culture, we have a fan, host sports facilities. This project will also launch a reflection on the regulation of the delta of the river along the river River, so I ask you to consider it, and I would like to ask the President of the Parliament to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50913	Please. There'll be a vote. We're going to the 14th amendment, my colleague Miletic has proposed again, here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50914	Also, Amendment 14 is not accepted. As part of the construction and maintenance activities, funds are planned for maintenance and construction of port infrastructure and for protecting and improving the use of maritime goods. In this way, it will significantly increase the efficiency of port activities and thus the value of concession in the port area. The planned resources in 2021 under these activities are sufficient to cover all investments in line with the planned dynamics, the implementation of the proposed amendment includes the drawing up of documentation for which, in the remaining part of 2021, unreal expected execution and payment of the services provided in the proposed amount. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the funds proposed by the amendment have been reduced, provided for the financing of already agreed projects of the civil society organisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50915	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50916	Dear Secretary of State, I ask you again. So, the mayor of Rijeka doesn't believe he'll succeed in the mandate, and he promised to build 1,000 apartments, 2 kindergartens, a megalomanical bus station and take care of the green areas of Rijeka. And now, we are in a green area deficit, and it is necessary to provide funding for the implementation of a public international architectural urban tender and for the development of a project documentation of a new green area for sport and recreation of Delta in total amounting to 4 million kuna. A new tender would be made from the planned funds, the necessary documentation would be collected for the main project of a new park in Delta, that is what the Rijekas and the Rijekas need. New representative public space of the city of Rijeka, a new green oasis in the center of Rijeka. The period after the end of World War II in Rijeka was marked by rooted changes in the political, economic, social plan that reflected urban and architectural activity. Among the many tasks that awaited the reaction of the urban profession was the issue of transformation of Delta, the nassy land between the dead canal and the redirected trough of Rijeka, which has been used mainly for port purposes since the mid-19th century. Formally legally united rivers and Sušak in '47. Thank God in the Intermediate Territorial and Administrative Independent Cities has imposed concrete problems in the spatial integration of the two halves of the city of Rijeka. Please consider the proposal and ask the president to put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50917	All right, we're going to the 15th Amendment, again, is MP Marin Miletić, proposed, here's the statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50918	Also, Amendment No 15 is not accepted, and also in the context of construction and maintenance, funds are planned for maintenance and construction of port infrastructure and for protecting and improving the use of maritime goods. In this way, it will significantly increase the efficiency of port activities and thus the value of concessions in the port area. The planned resources for 2021 are within the framework of these activities and sufficient to cover all investments in line with planned dynamics and implementation of the project. The proposed amendment shall include the production of documentation and the implementation of preparatory work for which the remaining part of 2021 is unrealisticly expected to carry out and pay the services provided in the proposed amount. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds proposed by the amendment have reduced the security and financial already agreed projects of civil society organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50919	Here's an obvious friend of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50920	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State is a dead channel in the town of Rijeka, and before the trough of Rijeka is the oldest natural port of the city of Rijeka in which the transport of ships was alive and after it was built artificially in front of Rijeka. In the dead canal, smaller ships were then the most often harvesters, the trabacles bound for landing and loading of cargo, wine trade, oil, there were cleaning, smaller hull repairs, and drying and clothing sails. Exactly the kind of living life we want to return to our city in combination with the preservation of the maritime tradition and the rich history our city has. Imagine now with an open museum, a maritime museum in the open. Well, that's, as soon as you say it sounds fairytalely, and some fairy tales can really come true if you help us because otherwise it's gonna be hard to do it because the mayor is waiting for big investments, 1000 apartments, 2 kindergartens, a megalomanic big bus station project, and without your help, we're not going to make this great maritime museum project out in the open. So we ask you to find those 3.5 million kunas somewhere. The project documentation would be prepared from the resources provided, prepared and installed by a fixed vessel of a dead channel, commercial content and a catering facility would guarantee the economic viability of the facility much greater than the Galeb ship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50921	And ask the President to vote Sure. [[Intruder: Please.]] We're going to the 16th Amendment, representative of Boska Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50922	Amendment number 16 is not accepted. The project DC3 construction of the Nedelišće and Pusćina bypass is not planned for the financial period 2014 to 2020 and the funding from that project can be planned for the financial period from '21–'27. A year. The amendment is accepted for the reason that the project K260057 construction, purchase and maintenance of buildings has planned EU funds for energy reconstruction of buildings and co-financing. It is also planned at the sources of funding of 563 European Regional Development Fund and 43 other revenue for specific purposes of co-financing and the funds have already been spent on commitments, making it impossible to reduce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50923	Here's a statement from colleague Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50924	I appreciate the explanation. The state road DC3 on the part between Čakovec and Varazdin mostly passes through the populated area, and the most critical shares are the centres of Nedelisce and Puscina where complete construction is present on both sides of the road with a large number of predominantly domestic connections. All mentioned significantly reduces the safety of traffic on the existing road leading to the need to move the state road DC3 i.e. building the Nedelišce and Puscino bypass. In doing so, the basic reason for the envisaged procedure is to avoid a critical section of the passage through populated areas i.e. A security aspect. The construction of the bypass would significantly reduce total traffic on the existing road, and in particular transit. The construction and use of the Nedeliste and Pusćina bypass would avoid the current collage of transit and local traffic that adversely affects the level of traffic services and safety of traffic participants. The Nedelišće and Puscina bypass is planned in the total length of 6340 meters and at this beginning from the north would connect the southern intersection of the town of Čakovec to the existing circular intersection. From the above, please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50925	We'll vote on Amendment number 16. The amendment is now the number 17 of MP Vesna Vucilovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50926	Amendment 17 is not accepted. The funds amounting to 475 million kuna for the A570334 activities are intended for the management of the organisation and regulation of railway transport. Taking into account the purpose of this item from the same point of view, it is not possible to edit the railway road crossings for pedestrians in Naščko Markovac since the financing of the same planned programme investments of HZ Infrastructure activities under K110008 of the activity programme in the function of infrastructure and network transport as a whole. Compensation of costs for transporters of persons entitled to preferential road transport so far has been paid by the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, and those funds are now planned within the division of 65 of the Ministry of Sea, Transport and Infrastructure on activities, and 819.076 the promotion of island and public transport of the funds planned has been established by the long-standing payments of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds, and the proposed reduction of funds with regard to payments of earlier years would result in a lack of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50927	Thank you. Since there are no MPs, we will vote on her amendment. We're going to the 18th Amendment, the Most Representatives' Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50928	So, Amendment No. 18 is also not accepted. For construction and infrastructure projects of activity 570219 the construction of rehabilitations and reconstruction of sub-building facilities in public transport ports of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation, reconstruction and construction of fishing infrastructure, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure provided an amount of 88 million kuna, of which 75 million and 155,000 are planned on a line of 3821 capital donations of non-profit organisations intended for projects which are registered at the call of the ministry and which are valued according to established criteria. Through the process of the Split-Dalmatia County port administration, she reported a project to resuscitate part of the port of Zenta for which they were still in 2021. appropriations. The amendment is not accepted because a reduction of 10 million kuna to activities, and 777046 management administration would lead to inability... commitments taken. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50929	Comrade Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50930	Thank you, Chairman. The port of special purpose, the port of Zenta is of importance to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the criteria set out in the Regulation. We're looking for a whole, not part of the amendment. The sports port of Zenta has been usurped and neglected for years. Members of the Zenta sailing club warned the government of the Republic of Croatia earlier, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the port captainate and other institutions of numerous illegalities and irregularities, were fighting court battles to protect this sports port in Split from any form of commercialisation. The concession on the port of sport expired long ago in 2014, and due to identified irregularities it was not extended. In 12 points, irregularities were identified at the time, and of which 9 were individually sufficient to confiscate the concession itself, such as providing charter services to companies and other ships for economic activities. After the inspection was found, not that the number of these ships had not been reduced, but that it had escalated so that today there are about 50% of ships in port for economic activity. They are torn down and curved concrete pontoons, tilted bows, electric cables stretching through the sea floor without any protection, multiton concrete mules are thrown into the sea, and small sailboats are left without electricity, water, even their equipment is damaged, their regattas were cancelled then, and the pontoon from which they descend into the sea, and the approach of the sea is paved by a two-and-a-half-ton metal container. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50931	There'll be a vote. Let's go to Amendment No. 19th of the same club of MPs, here's an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50932	Amendment No. It's not accepted in 19th. With the aim of achieving more quality traffic in the Metković area, and in agreement with local self-government, and the results of a study of various solutions passing the state road DC-9 through the centre of the city of Metković, a new bridge is being launched that will re-valorize traffic in the center of Metković. Namely, a study of the variant solutions of the state roadway DC-9 through the city centre of Metković carried out an analysis of the possibility of improving the traffic condition of the denivelation of the state road DC-9 in part at the square of King Tomislav by installing the underpass, and all under the specified conditions of dense construction of the city centre. Proposals for denivelation were drawn up, and the study discussed representatives of local self-government with a view to harmonisation. It is concluded that when selecting an optimal solution, we should consider other options for solving the problem, the traffic problem in the centre of Metkovic. A study of performance and environmental impact with a solution for acceptable procedures on the environment for the planned bridge across the Neretva River in Metković was built in the plan for the purchase of Croatian roads. The Ministry of Finance, the tax administration, is in its '21st budget proposal. and projections for 2022 and '23. to plan funds based on real needs for resources to ensure the smooth functioning of the body. The reduction in expenditure would prevent the execution of commitments undertaken and planned, and given the proposed amendment, it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50933	Here's a colleague of Petrov's, obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50934	Dearly beloved, Metkovic is a city through which the river passes, which is not a city that lives on the river. Worse yet, it's a city divided by the river. And now you're telling me, we've been constantly proposing for several years this bridge. Why? Because there is currently only one bridge in Metkovic, and that traffic over that bridge has been compromised because you managed to build an inadequate border crossing of Doljani, 500 meters from that bridge. And during every major crowd, as we warned you then, during every major summer crowd, we have a single bridge that exists in Metkovic blocked. And that's why we're looking because we wanted to build another bridge. We have one of the only ones that you've blocked for us during the summer. And today you're telling me that in cooperation with local self-government, you saw that we don't need a bridge. Well done, good job to you, good job to Mayor Metkovic who agreed with you that the Metkovci don't need an extra bridge, bravo. Why didn't he say that before the election? To see him defend Metkovic's interests. Well, this is a shame. This is really embarrassing. So if he doesn't already know how to fight, I beg you and beg you, think again. It's 15 000 people living in that city, they can't cross from one side of the city, imagine their city being divided, which is blocked traffic and you can't get to the other side. So do you know what life is like in that town?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50935	There will be a vote on this amendment. The 20th Amendment, re-emergence Club of Representatives of the Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50936	Amendment No. 20 is also not accepted. Croatian roads signed an agreement with Croatian waters to build a project documentation for the reconstruction of D9 and to build a fort on the river Neretva at the border crossing of Doljani to the center of Metkovic. The Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, in its budget proposal for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023, planned funds based on real needs with resources to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction in expenditure would allow the implementation of the planned commitments undertaken and, given the above, this amendment would not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50937	Here you go, colleague Petrov, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50938	Dear Secretary of State, you're not reducing anything. In 2016 to 2020, you raised the cost of this country for 40 billion kn, so we're going to take that right away. And now we're coming to this border crossing of the valleys I'm telling you about. We warned when you were building it that it wasn't adequate, you kept building it. Now that we've blocked traffic all over the city, when we've blocked the only bridge over which we can cross the river, on the other side of Metkovic, you tell us you can't do that either, why, because you lack money for the IRS. Make money, you've won 40 billion pounds in the last four years where you've been willing, hired people as long as you've been willing, and okay, you're still working, but get rid of our problems. What's the problem with buying houses and making extra lanes so we don't have to put up with the crowd? We didn't have that crowd. You created it for us. So if you've created a problem, isn't it okay that you solve the problem? We didn't ask you to get involved, we begged you to make a different solution because we warned you about this. You were deaf, you were blind, whether you were incompetent or not, that's what you're going to assess, mostly you're not listening to us. You did it your way. We've got a problem. Please, help us solve the problem. The solution to this problem costs 16 million kunas to buy houses, 8 million kn of road. I don't care where you get the money from. You've created a problem for us, you've solved our problem. And it is even more embarrassing if this mayor of the current Metkovic refused to resolve in cooperation with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50939	Are you asking for a vote? ... I thank the Secretary of State, and we now move on to amendments related to the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. [[You can't hear it.]] I'm calling the Secretary of State, the Honorable Turtle Uhlir. We're going to the 21st Amendment, Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50940	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 21 The representatives of the left bloc club shall not be accepted and this is because the proposed increase is not necessary since the planned funds are based on the current analysis of the situation of all the activities and jobs in the reconstruction and their projections by the end of this year. On the other hand, a combat-armed vehicle project that improves combat preparedness and achieves NATO-set standards, in line with taking over the objectives of the same agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50941	Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50942	My dear colleague Uhlir, we've known each other from the time of the Ministry of Defense a long time ago, I'm glad you mentioned NATO. So, first of all, we live in a time where a 14-year-old from Shanghai to a time before lunch can do more damage in the country through his computer than what a combat-armed vehicle can use you in some kind of kinetic conflict and when you mention NATO, in the last document on which our president participated and the foreign minister who did not but talked a lot about it, talking about exactly how the future of war is, as it encourages NATO members to invest in cyber defence. So, what are you gonna do about your battle-armed vehicle when our 14-year-old knocks down your power grid or hacks your, I don't know, plumbing system? So, the question of what can we do with that money? We can invest them in a combat-armed vehicle that, just in some way, NATO's views on the future won't be particularly useful, or we can use that money to maybe increase our projections, to be more ambitious in the recovery after the earthquake. So I think we should be rational. At the end of the day, it all comes down to priorities and it comes down to what we can get for the money of our taxpayers, and our citizens and citizens who invest in something. So, of course, we need to invest in human safety, but if we're thinking about human security, then you've been rebuilding since the earthquake is more of an investment in human safety than a combat armored vehicle. We're asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50943	We will vote on Amendment No. 21. The 22nd Amendment of the same club of MPs, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50944	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as before, therefore the proposed increase is not accepted because the planned funds are intended for recovery sufficient for this 2021, which are made on the basis of the current analysis of the situation of all activities and businesses. On the other hand, the Croatian Defence Ministry has received more than 12,000 requests for one-time cash assistance with an earthquake in the affected area, and in this regard the planned amount foreseen in the ministry class is also needed. Furthermore, according to the Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, funeral costs of dead Croatian defenders are also paid and are only in the period from January to April 2021. 2.585 Croatian defenders died from the Homeland War, and throughout 2020. 5.681 which represents growth in this year of 24.9%, therefore the funds are needed in this division.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50945	Here's a statement from my colleague Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50946	Thank you, Mr. President. So, in the City of Zagreb according to official, only the City of Zagreb, which is less than the area affected by the earthquake lives by official statistics of about 76,000 potential users of one-time assistance. That's what you just said, and I'm glad you mentioned that 12,000 asked for one-time help, and we get a quick check that that's about 40 million kunas if all these people were granted that help. So again, these 30 million kunas are not enough for you to cover all requests for one-time assistance, but if all these demands were related to an earthquake with 30 million kunas that you transfer to another site for recovery from earthquakes exactly for those people you can do more because you put them in one fund that is bigger. And look, a little contradictory argument, if the projections, if you say the projections for this position are enough or to cover everything, then again why do you have that number requires no? So there's one contradiction in your argument I just think that it shouldn't be buried in some fixed ways of looking at how we can help people. People need help, we need to help our defenders, but maybe we should think about how we can use some money better instead of keeping them for some position that we put in the drawer and think about okay, that's it. With 3,300 kuna, you think someone who's been hit by an earthquake by a defense attorney, a civilian victim of war, HRVI, I think what you think he can do with 3,300 and a change of kuna. On the other hand, from this fund, if people are rerouted to turn to another address and if we've just increased from this position, I think we should agree that more can be done. So, you just need to think Holistic. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50947	Okay. We're going to the 23rd Amendment, the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club again. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50948	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason because the planned funds are based on the current analysis of the situation of all activities and refurbishment operations. So the renovation projections are made, the analysis of the situation is done and we think the funds are enough. On the other hand, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds are in the position of support to the Croatian Catholic University planned in the amount necessary to cover the expenditure on salaries and material rights of employees of the Croatian Catholic University.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50949	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50950	Thank you, Mr. President. So it's all a matter of priority again. Our proposal was not to completely abolish the position but to rationalise the position. Therefore, the HKS should also streamline its projections in terms of needs and priorities. The recovery from the earthquake would have to be and I can't say enough times, the absolute priority, so with the pandemic with all the evils that hit us in the last year and two, I think it's like, on the one hand, we have a million kunas that don't represent such a large amount of pay expenditure, and besides, let's be honest, in the academy they can move from other sources. They can, there are European funds for this, there are ways to cover these administrative costs on the other hand. I think that in the situation in which we are located is neither arrogant nor irrational to ask all the actors of all the institutions that are socially funded to tighten the belt for such expenditures, because a million kunas really shouldn't throw anyone on a begging stick or make hungry bread, and on the other hand, the restoration from the earthquake must be an absolute priority because that is what our future and the success of our society, members and members of our society are bound to do, and I think projections and ambitions should be modified. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50951	We've come to the end of these amendments with this, so thank you to Secretary of State, Uhlir. We are now going to the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Secretary of State Mile Horvat. 24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, here's your indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50952	Thank you. So, the 24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Mosto is not accepted. In this respect, the Lučino Division has been subject to a single environmental impact assessment procedure and to the establishment of uniform environmental protection conditions since 26.2.2014. and the procedure for amending the projects or procedures, assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment of 11.10.2017. which reflect the impacts on all environmental components, including water. The Ministry of Finance, the IRS, is in its budget proposal for 2021 and projections for 2022 and '23. a year planned on the basis of real needs for resources to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction in expenditure would make it impossible to execute the taken and planned considerations and, given the above proposed refusal of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50953	Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50954	Dear Secretary of State, the area in which a waste management centre is built is the karst area. It's a karst area, specifically because it's very ugly. I hope you know that, too. I hope you're familiar with the 2008 study that simulated the waste management centre in the area and showed that the waste of water from the Luč's distance ends in Maloston Bay, in Slano, in Čepikuća in the Neretva Valley. Every year, you building a waste management center want to bring 45,000 tons of waste to that karst area. And you're saying nothing's gonna happen. So if nothing's gonna happen, so just do one more hydrogeologically independent course, show the people, convince us we're wrong. Why are you running away from it? You're trying to invest half a billion kunas in a waste management center, half a billion kunas in an outdated project, a technically outdated project that you're telling yourself to do just because you've been trying to spend it for 20 years. And it says that something about the project is wrong, if you're not a frame, you can spend it in 20 years. But aside from all I ask you for the people who live in that area, who work in that area, I ask you to find the means to make another hydrogeological run of water. We're talking about the Maloston Stones, the world brand from Croatia that you're going to destroy, we're talking about the lives and health of people who drink that water.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50955	Thank you, there will be a vote. We are going to the 25th Amendment, MP Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50956	Amendment 25 is not accepted. One way to adequately process the recovery of biodegradable municipal waste is anaerobic dysesthesia carried out in a biogas plant. The law on sustainable waste management provides that the biogas plant is of local importance. The following unit of local self-government in this case is obliged to provide financing for this facility, and co-financing can be achieved through funding from European funds intended for projects in the waste management area. In the previous period, the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development announced a public call for co-financing of biogas building projects from European funds and a new public call for these citizens is expected in the coming period. Furthermore, the resources on the activities of A779006 nature protection are planned for the purpose of implementing the obligations arising from the Nature Protection Act, the Law on cross-border transport and trade in wild species and the Law on the Prevention of Entering and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Species. Therefore, under that activity, funding for the co-financing of the construction of a biogas plant in Rijeka cannot be planned because such a project does not exist in the abovementioned commitments which are the basis for financing under the A779006 budgetary activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50957	Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50958	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Bukarica, the esteemed Secretary of State, I really am not an ordinary sarcasm, I think the sarcasm bar in my habitat is not passing but the irony of mildness I am. So, you should help us Rivers, my city because I heard you say you're landing on a unit of local self-government more specifically on the city of Rijeka, wherever my mayor of Rijeka needs to build 1,000 apartments, a man needs to build 1,000 apartments in one term and two kindergartens and a megaloma bus station so where he will deal with the biogas plant. And that's why the state has to help because the right to clean air, if I'm not mistaken, is the 73th or 74th article of the Constitution, so we have the right to clean air in Rijeka. Citizens of Marchelj, the entire river ring, suffer from the effects of an outdated concept of waste management that we have on Mariščina, we have Mariščina and there is something to be done. The Institute of Public Health, which also drew from the ruling party in the county assembly, showed, waved with papers where the teaching institute showed that toxic gases were coming from Mariscina. So some are also carcinogenically exactly 12 compounds. And there's something that needs to be done to protect people. It cannot profit any or certain jobs that are agreed on be more important than protecting human health and protecting the environment. And I ask you to stop with these wrong concepts, to encourage people to and units of local self-government to ultimately enforce the law and take care of biodegradable waste. And this would be great if the state would drop us, help us with 18 million kuna and build you a biogas plant in Rijeka because my mayor won't be able to do it for big investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50959	We'll vote on this proposal. We're going to MP Ante Kujundzic's 26th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50960	Amendment 26. The recovery of toxic waste from the former ferolecture factory Dalmatia Dugi Rat is not planned in the plan of waste management of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017-2022. In the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for '21. With projections in '22, '23, the Ministry of Finance planned the expenditure necessary to carry out the regular activity of the Ministry of Finance, including expenditure on staffed material expenditures, financial expenditures of sources of financing general income and receipts. Out of the total planned funds for management activities, nearly 68% of expenditure on staff costs consisting of salaries, contributions to salaries and other expenditures for employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50961	Here's an indication. Comrade Kujundzic, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50962	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, have you ever been to the Long War or to the Holes where Vrulja is? For the past 20 days, we have witnessed the devastion and unlawful concreteization of the Vrulja on the Dupci. I expect you to react in accordance with those powers you have. So this amendment is about the Long War itself, and I asked you if you were because if you were, it's amazing for me to know and the fact that since 2014. The remains of the “Ferolegure” factory in the Long War not only do they look like a carat and one such beautiful little Dalmatian tourist spot this actually gives him a dimension that he doesn’t deserve. On the other hand, since the said waste is located by the sea itself, have you wondered at the end how much danger there is to flora and fauna? On the other hand, since 2014, it still stands in the same place. And for the record, you're gonna say okay, so it was sold to someone there in those days. And I agree with that. However, for what reason do you not react in accordance with your authority, both on Vrulja and in this case here and will you and when will you end up taking certain legal steps that you can? I'm going to repeat this amendment anyway, and so far I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50963	We will vote on Amendment No. 26. 27th Amendment, MP Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50964	Amendment 27 is not accepted. Namely, the government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the reason that the development of a lagoon rehabilitation programme is under way as part of the former TVIK screw factory in Knin. On the basis of the Agreement on the co-financing of the Sanitary Programme with a proposal for measures to eliminate damage to the environment of lagoons in the city of Knin, which are signatories of the Sibenik-Knin County, the City of Knin, Croatian Water and the group DIV d.o.o. Croatian waters have conducted public procurement and agreed on the construction of the programme in question. The development of a recovery programme which will include the development of variant solutions and the proposal for a recovery method of the area concerned is at its conclusion, and will apply to EU funds upon acceptance of the same recovery of the area in question. The State Inspectorate is in its proposal to amend and supplement the state budget for 2021. with projections for '22-23. plan resources based on realistic needs, so as to ensure the smooth work of the inspectorate. Any reduction would prevent the regular execution of the contractual commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50965	If he doesn't have a colleague, we'll vote on his amendment. Thank you, Secretary of State Horvato. We're moving on to the Ministry of Science and Education. I'm calling Secretary of State Stipe Mamic. Let's go to Amendment No. 28th Catharina Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50966	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that, at the position of the assistants in the follow-up for children with development difficulties, sufficient means are provided for the insurance of assistants to proceed, as continuing assistants are financed from the European Social Fund. Compared to 2017 when, through ISF, assistants in the third phase for four school years were provided a little more than 362 million kuna, on average 90 million kuna per school year, for the school year '21-22. The Ministry for the financing of continuing assistants and professional communications intermediaries secured from the ISF 135 million kuna phase four. an increase of 50% compared to 2017. In addition to these funds, the Regulation laying down criteria for the determination of users and how to distribute part of the gambling income for '21st. The government has provided an additional 20.4 million kuna for projects of civil society organisations that will provide helpers in continuing and professional communications intermediaries in social care institutions carrying out education and education of students with developmental difficulties. So, it's in total positions of the Ministry of Science and Education for Assistants in Training and Expert Communication Intermediaries for the school year '21-'22. the planned amount of over 155 million kuna. On the other hand, the capitalisation project for multi-purpose helicopters is a contractual obligation agreed on in 2019. for which the government has given its consent and therefore the funds on the project cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50967	Here's a statement from my colleague, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50968	Here, we can argue here about this tiny philistraist place of the patriotic point of presentation and the interpretation of amendments aimed at gathering the voices of those living in Zagreb, Čakovec or Rijeka, but about the most sensitive and vulnerable groups such as children with developmental difficulties we should all agree on. Why is the problem of the assistant in class much bigger than what you've shown? In fact, continuing assistants have been reduced, so the budget amounts already 13% compared to last year, and now the rebalancing is further reduced, and fundamentally there is a problem of the assistant continuing that the assistants are not constantly employed workers and that is the problem, so they are in pre-existing status. The prominent workers care for one of the most sensitive groups in our society, these are children with developmental difficulties. The outstanding status of work in Croatia is such that these are people who do not have a permanent job, who are not sure if they will have a job tomorrow and this reflects on that one of the most sensitive groups in our society. If we need multi-purpose helicopters, there's something about that already, it's about priorities. So in any case, this year, means in Covid the year when things should be directed towards groups that are sensitive, we insist on multi-purpose helicopters, caterpillars and all that will be obtained by our Croatian army, and let me just mention, therefore, we are reducing funds according to NATO's instructions for staff, i.e. for workers in that system, but we are rested from not getting too much equipment, so now we will get a little more equipment. These are priorities that this government puts on itself and that send a message to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50969	Thank you very much. You're looking for a vote, aren't you? Okay. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] There'll be a vote. We're going to the 29th Amendment Green-Left Block Representative Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50970	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds to activities are the promotion of extracurricular activities in primary schools sufficient for planned activities in 2021. The Ministry of Science and Education continuously co-finances extracurricular activities in primary schools, and activities are financed from several sources. Incentives in.../incomprehensible/... institutional education and education of children and young people, incentives for the Croatian community of technical culture, promotion of work programmes with gifted students and students. On the other hand, the funds are planned to cover the expenditure on salaries and material rights of employees of the Croatian Catholic University in 2021, and all under the Croatian Catholic University Support Agreement and the Zagreb Archdiocese on Support to the Croatian Catholic University concluded on 2 November 2007.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50971	It's obvious, my colleague Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50972	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the clarification, but I cannot agree that these funds are sufficient for extracurricular activities in primary schools. I don't know about you, uh, I have two kids in junior high school and I can tell you that all extracurricular activities are also required by parents to engage and in some way contribute. I mean, I don't mind that, but, as I say, our kids are our investment, and this government puts a terrible emphasis on demographics, and I've always believed that it's not just, that demographics aren't and it can't be just that you tell people you're making children, you give birth to children. Demography is also what you will provide for those children once they are born. I mean, every extracurricular activity, in whatever area it's so good at carrying kids. So this here so small money, I think, a million and 320 thousand kunas that are secured here, for all primary schools, look, I mean, while buying combat armored vehicles, while giving that almost hundreds of millions of kunas for the 3 seas initiative and this amount that we have proposed here which, for wages, more or less, look, we have proposed some 300 thousand kunas to separate more for extracurricular activities. You can really say that it is what, that it is something that cannot be singled out and that it is something that is not a good investment in the future of Croatia because it is these children. Oh, no? Look, I think I understand your position, but what you'd say, let's think about it, you have that possibility of redistributing after the 5%. I mean, every kuna you give those kids will come back eightfold. Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50973	Thank you. 30th Amendment Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50974	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities this year to promote extracurricular activities in secondary schools and higher education. The Ministry of Science and Education continuously co-finances extracurricular activities in secondary schools, and activities are funded from several sources, as I just listed. On the other hand, the Croatian Catholic University, as I said, is a contractual obligation and we cannot disobey the contractual obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50975	Thank you very much, please explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50976	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice-President of HS. As I would say, a similar target, a similar distance, is not the same because we're talking about young people here, not really elementary school kids anymore, but it's very similar to you. So at the end of the ballad, everything comes down to how we approach and what we allow our young people beyond what is considered a mandatory curricula, extracurricular activities encourage their creativity, encourage them out of those frames, teach them to think, teach them to give, to have some creative outlet that is their place to create, to say the least. And now here's the amount that's supposed to be in the budget is even smaller than the one for primary schools. I encourage you to consider increasing both of these amounts. High school is so important, it's also preparation for college, it's, it's ready for graduation and I think that young generations today, that extracurricular activities may be more than programs that they have to adopt at school, can help them think about what they want to do later in life. There, I mean, there you have said it yourself, there's a technical culture, there's STEM, there's drama art, so these things are the ones that will help them in some way feel their place in society. It makes sense to invest in it. This million and 100 and some thousand kuna that's here. I mean, we have to do better than that. I know it might be enough, if it were projections, it's all eyes, rock 'n' roll, but what, at the end of the day we have to and we can do better than that because imagine how many horizons these kids can open up if we say, you know what, eyes, this might be enough for what it's been like so far, but let's open the horizons even more and here, let's see what you can do. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50977	Thank you very much. We'll vote tomorrow. Next Amendment, Amendment No. 31 A representative's club, I ask you on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Mamic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50978	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The KP-79064 capital investment in primary and secondary education is financed exclusively by the most priority facilities in which the safety of pupils and employees is compromised, i.e. when real and formal assumptions are met for the same, and are in line with the dynamic plans for the execution of contracts concluded by the Ministry of Science and Education by the proposed funds. On the other hand, a reduction of 10 million kn n activities of A7.7.7046 administrations and management would lead to the inability to carry out commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50979	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bozo Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50980	Dear Secretary of State, are you saying there are educational institutions where child safety is at stake? No, you didn't say... [[Attacka Mamić: When it happens, for example...]] No, no, no. [[Mamic, you don't understand.]] If I understand correctly, you said that you could give us money for the solar power plant, for the installation of a solar power plant at a sports hall in Smokvica, which I think is really necessary, and when you resolve life-threatening educational institutions. [[Intruder Voter: Please.]] We can get the movie back. I can give you some and get you right. So, I'd like to pray that the government doesn't get away with having no money. I will repeat, as I told the previous secretary of state, 40 billion kuna each year, more states spend today than they spent in 2016. And you're saying you don't have this $10 million money for a solar power plant in Smokvica on the island of Korčula? Do you know why we suggested it? Because it would severely reduce electricity bills, make energy independence, help the small municipality, help its energy independence. I think it's a good project. So if you can spend 40 billion kunas every year more, then I don't see any reason why you wouldn't give a municipality 10 million kn if it didn't have to depend on anyone? I agree, you first take care of all those threatening educational institutions so that it happens by chance that something falls on someone's head, but here's what you do, please, give this a very important thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50981	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? ... We'll vote tomorrow. [[I can't hear you.]] Here in the name of the government, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50982	Thirty-two, right? Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Funding projects like this... It follows from the provisions of the Pre-school Education and Education Act, which determines that in the budgets of the founders of the institutions of pre-school education and education, or the budgets of units of local and regional self-government, funds for the financing of the construction and equipment of pre-school institutions are provided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of the fact that many units of local and regional self-government do not have sufficient fiscal capacity, and thus in the NPOO has overlooked the amount of billions and 620 million kuna for the construction of new 22 500 kindergartens and the Ministry of Science and Education by the end of this year will issue a public call to which all those who do not have kindergartens will apply. In addition, on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, in its budget proposal for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023, planned funds based on real needs for resources to ensure the smooth work of the body. The reduction of expenditure would prevent the implementation of the planned commitments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50983	Thank you very much. Let's go to the next one, please, sir, uh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50984	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, you're saying we're gonna give you a new call now, I can re-apply, I'd ask you to ask questions before you come to defend what this is all about. The government has already given location for Zupi Dubrovacki kindergarten 2014. Nothing has happened since 2014. You see, it's been seven years. Now the third election cycle has passed locally. Nothing happened. Every year more and more children in Župa Dubrovačka because there is more families moving in. And your conditions are that the kindergarten is located in the municipality building, where the spaces are refurbished. Those are the terms. Where the government, one of the reasons why kindergarten isn't built, you know why, because the government gave them the location at the entrance to the Coopers. ... the days by the concession state and the Coopers do not resolve their concession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the state that gave space to build kindergartens, also indirectly defends the construction of that kindergarten and you say I promise you again. So you made me laugh, I have to tell you, when I ask some people why they vote for some political side, they say they promised me a job. I say, well, they promised you a job in 2017, yes, they did, but they couldn't, but now they can because I'm next in line, it's been four years. You see, it's been seven years and you're talking about a new call. New call, new application, new seven years. The people and families in the Dubrovnik County don't have a new 7 years, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50985	Thank you. We'll vote tomorrow. Let's go to Amendment No. 33, Advocacy Club of the Bridge, please welcome Mr. Mamic, an indication of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50986	The amendment is not accepted because the financing of this project stems from the provisions of Art. 48th, 49th and 50th. Law on preschool education and education, which determines that preschool education and education institutions are established in the budgets, i.e. in the budgets, units of local and regional self-government provide funds for the financing and construction and equipment of pre-school institutions. Also, it's worth all the time I said, 22 500 new kindergartens in all of Croatia that will be able to be built, we already have video and map the situation, 123 municipalities don't have kindergartens, and for that reason we decided to put it in the NPO as a priority. On the other hand, the provided funds in the financial plan, the directorates for the use of official aircraft are intended to subsidise expenditure for employees of the Directorate, professional training of the pilot’s technical staff for the subsidisation of aircraft costs, for the settlement of service costs and insurance of the official aircraft for the settlement of the costs of compulsory fees on flight documentation and other expenditure for the regular operation of the Directorate. For this reason, it is not possible to reduce these resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50987	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Ms. Marija Selak Rasudiæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50988	I do not think that it is such a demanding job to map the situation because given the fact that we live in at least 2 Croatia of one urban, developed privilege that we also enjoy the other in this case that I am talking about behind some hills and valleys in a zoo that nobody sees, you can probably just take a map of Croatia and read places and you won't make a lot of mistakes because they all don't have adequate conditions to take care of their children. Our mouths are full of demographics, we talk all the time about how people should be kept in Croatia and how they should have children, but what we don't see is what's really happening in Croatia that most of these people have nowhere to go with these children if they even decide to have them. In this sense, indeed, we should pay particular attention to areas that are also of particular national concern because they do not enjoy the privileges that you and I here can enjoy. This amendment was given to provide funds for 10 modern playgrounds in our poorest Dalmatian hinterland municipalities, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Knin County in the places of Špot, Krushevo, Cista Velika, Lozovac, Sonković, Konevrate, Cista Provo, Blato, Cetina, Lovrec and Zagvozd. Although the undeveloped parts of our country have slowly started to shut down in recent years and there are fewer newborn children that should all be concerned, it does not mean that those who have decided to stay in these areas do not have the right to enjoy all the benefits and technical achievements of the 21st century as we do here in Zagreb. We ask that this amendment be put to the vote is an investment worth 2 million kuna that will greatly change the lives of all those who are not in the light of the reflector and live with us in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50989	Thank you. By voting, we will declare the amendment tomorrow. Next Amendment number 34 of MP Mira Bulj, since he is not here, I apologize, please welcome the Honorable Secretary of State Mamic's explanation for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50990	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed funds are additional for planned activities. What I can only add to the trail of these activities related to early preschool education and child coverage are related to the fact that it will build up and significantly increase the coverage of children at the level of the entire Croatia with 22,500 places aware of the fact that in many small municipalities there is no fiscal capacity for long-term sustainability. We also made a commitment through the NPO which is in the final phase that we will create a model.../incomprehensible/... of a coordination fund that would support these municipalities from the central state and ensure their sustainability. On the other hand, there is also a problem of affordability, so there are many families who cannot afford this modest price depending on individual and local units 400, 500, or how many kunas, and in this context we plan through the ISF to make one model for those families who cannot afford to pay especially with more children in order to improve the same on the trail of this demographic situation and ensure that everyone can take care of their children in kindergartens. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, the IRS in its '21 draft budget. it has planned funds based on all its obligations and activities and, for this reason, it is not possible to reduce these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50991	Thank you very much. As I've already told you, it's a little premature since the esteemed representative of Bulj is not here today on the amendment we'll vote tomorrow. We're going to the next amendment, Amendment number 35 of the representative of Nikola Grumoya. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50992	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Law on primary and secondary education allows for funding from the state budget of the most priority projects, or those in which safety is threatened, both students and employees. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, through the National Fund, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, envisioned an amount of 560 million kuna for the construction and upgrade of secondary school institutions for the purpose of increasing the coverage of students to the high school programmes and the ministry will call a public call no later than the end of the first quarter of the following year in 2022 and the programming of operational programmes for the next VFO for the period of '21 is also under way. And '27. in which it is also planned to finance the construction of secondary schools. On the other hand, a proposed reduction of 30 million kuna to the administrative and management activities of A777046 would lead to the inability to carry out the commitments undertaken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50993	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50994	Thank you. We repeat this amendment year after year. So it's been more than I think 14 years since the treaty was signed between the city of Ploca and the Dubrovnik-Neretva County on the construction of this school. So nothing happened. So, this project plans to build new facilities for a secondary school with a belonging sports hall, to form a functionally unique high school complex, and to form such a centre would provide a centre of excellence for professional occupations that would engravite the entire Neretva valley, the town of Ploče secures construction land in the city center, burdens the real building of the specified particle in favour of the rightholder of construction, which is Dubrovnik-Neretva County that freed and paid the municipal contribution, assumes the obligation to provide complete infrastructure to the facility, and here for 14 years we have this agreement, nothing happens to the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and we see what the state's position is, and this is no wonder that you lost the election in the city of Ploče because you're showing a complete lack of care for the city of Ploče, for the students, for the people who gravitrate the city of Nere. So I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50995	All right, we'll vote tomorrow. And the last amendment to this part of the Ministry of Science and Education, the honourable representative, and the amendment of the 36th Congresswoman Katarina Peović. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50996	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the funds at position A 622 122 programme funding of public higher universities are planned in sufficient amount, the calculation of funding for public higher education programme funding is based on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the programme financing of public higher universities in the Republic of Croatia for academic years 2018/19, 2019/20, 2020/21 and 2021/22 of the National No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These funds have also been increased in the budget compared to the previous period. On the other hand, funds under the Support Programme are intended for the settlement of contractual commitments and cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50997	Thank you very much. Here are the honourable MPs, Peovic, explaining the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50998	And yet perhaps in that total amount you increase slightly compared to last year, but complete science has been sub-suppressed, therefore, funded or underfunded. And now we can say here whether funds should be increased in the Neretva Valley either in Zagreb or in Čakovec, but we must agree that science is underfunded, and in addition, the government itself, or the prime minister, says that the amount or share of GDP to finance science should be targeted. The programmes in science should certainly be financed more, the resources foreseen by the 2021 budget. It is already at the start of the 60 million kunas lower than those foreseen by the Government's decision on programme financing of public and higher universities in the academic years 2018/19, 2019/20, 2020/21 but the original amount of the decision needs to be further increased. In order to first of all achieve what we have been saying since 2009 and from which some policy options have grown here that it is necessary to provide free education from kindergarten to PhD. At the original amount of the decision, it is certainly necessary to place a larger amount. What again is a matter of priorities that are constantly being imposed here, to what to take, to what to add, so I would say that it's not very Christian to add to those who need support from religious communities again. So this is about supporting religious communities and demanding that 100 million kuna be given to religious communities and that the amount be reduced a little bit, and therefore we talk about the support that goes to the Vatican Treaties that we pay in Croatia a million kunas a year, at least by some estimates, with everything we can't locate on local administrations and self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u50999	Thank you very much. I'm guessing you're looking for a vote. Okay, we'll hold the vote tomorrow. [[Intruder Peović: yes, yes, I will ask for a vote.]] We continue with amendments aimed at the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy. With us today is Secretary of State Majda Buric. Here's the secretary of state. Good day to you. Amendment No. 37 MPs Katarina Peovic please read about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51000	The amendment is not accepted, so amendments to the legislative framework have already planned to increase social benefits aimed at the most vulnerable users, and an increase in funding will be planned over the next budget period. On the other hand, the resources under the Support Programme are intended for the settlement of contractual commitments, which are provided under the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between St. The chairs and the Republic of Croatia on economic issues, therefore the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51001	Thank you very much. Reputed representative Katarina Peović, additional explanation, i.e. an indication of no explanation for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51002	Here I will repeat that it is not very Christian not to be given in such difficult times, for why it should be given. Why should it be given to the socialist? Croatia has made continuous progress year after year on a scale of poverty and social exclusion indicators. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. show that we climbed to the 7th from the 8th place where we were in 2018 and from the 10th place where we were in 2017. With all the figures that we get here every time about how employment has increased, how the government has kept jobs, preserved the economy, etc., every time we get to these indicators of social exclusion and poverty we get a real picture of Croatia. So what does it mean we climbed that unpopular ladder? So almost a million people live at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 6.6% of people can't afford to heat up in the coldest months, over 48% of people can't afford a week's vacation, in the black darkness of socialism more than 60% could, 7.9% can't afford an adequate meal every day or meal containing meat, chicken or vegetarian equivalent, 51.7% can't settle unexpected financial expenditure, 15.7% later on paying commitments, etc. The COvid crisis has only heightened that. So the social benefits are the moment where we should all agree here and say maybe Čakovec, Zagreb, the Neretva Valley can now argue whether this rebalancing should be resolved so that now I don't know every voter watching as his MP in the Assembly is the loudst one, so after he does it with his vote, I'm not sure that this approach of opposition should have taken over. But what we have to agree on are social benefits, high science and education, kindergartens, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51003	Thank you. You're looking for a vote. Tomorrow we vote on the amendment. [[Intruder Peovic: Yes, I will ask for a vote.]] We are going to the next amendment, also the amendment of MP Katarina Peovic, Amendment No. 38. I ask the Government's representative to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51004	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, the obligation to pay the users of the pensions in question stems from the Law on invalidity and pension insurance, and that is the case. 157, which was in force until 31 December 1998. and, accordingly, the planned funds are within division 086 of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy. Also 08620 HZMO related to the activities of the Croatian Homeland Army's pension amounting to 23 million 490 thousand kuna in 2021. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51005	Thank you. Would you like to further explain the amendment? Yeah. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51006	Yes, I do. In fact, I would take this opportunity to warn the Croatian public of this fact that many do not realize that 23 million 490 thousand kunas are given so-called. the members of the Homeland Army, including the House of Defense, Ustasha, Arms, NDH and similar troops, 5862, and their legal heirs receive pensions from the state budget. The average pension is around 2,300 kuna. Since it is not only that the relative reduction of their pensions of approximately 15% compared to last year in the same proportion as the NOB fighters is not correct but it is unacceptable to pay such pensions at all. I'll ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51007	Thank you very much. We're going to the next amendment. Amendment No. 39. I'd like to ask the government's representative to be informed of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51008	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. In fact, the applicable rules in the welfare system are not at all entitled to the right to stay for parents during treatment and child therapy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51009	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, you would like to further explain the amendment, on behalf of the Most Club No. 39? Here you go, distinguished representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51010	We feel that it is really necessary to track down this demographic policy that we insist on only nominally providing funds for the accommodation of parents who have a child after the birth of neonatology or sick, and are forced to stay in another city for treatment and pay for accommodation, which many of them cannot afford and cannot be with their child. In Croatia, we have three large KBCs that are all gravitating both children and babies whose care cannot be provided in hospitals of nearby cities or are the strongest centres they can address based on diagnosis. Health insurance contribution is 16.5%. Despite this, parents whose child is in a hospital that is miles away from home are forced to allocate significant financial resources so that they can be with their child. Being with your child is also a guarantee of the child’s recovery at all. How, for example, a mother who is breastfeeding or in a case like this will be able to do so if she cannot sleep in the place where her child is. At this point in time when we are looking for these funds that we find highly justified and necessary on the trail of demographic policy because it is also about basic human rights to be with a child who has just been born. It is also worth reminding of the Stythian and unequal policy of the ministry that did not allow all parents to be equally present at the birth of their children. So some of you are looking for a quick antigen test in 15 minutes, which you can really do to be at birth, and others are looking for the 48 hours ahead as if you're going to calculate when a child will knock on this world. We have such a policy that today's father can't be with a mother who's having a baby, and neither will a mother with a child if she's sick when she's born.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51011	Are you asking for a vote on the amendment? I think we're going to vote, thank you very much. Moving on, Amendment No. 40. MOST Representatives' Club, please welcome state secretary Buric, an observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51012	Thank you. So the amendment is not accepted. I note that the compensation for the parent of the carer or carer is to be paid on 1 June 2020. increased by 1,500 kuna and from 2,500 kuna to 4,000 kuna. The planned amount of compensation for the parent status of the care provider or the status of the care provider shall be based on the movement of the number of users and the amount of compensation for the parent status or the status of the care provider, in accordance with the Social Care Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51013	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Appreciative Representative Selak Rasudiæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51014	Of course, these fees are one of the basic problems of parent parents who, as the name itself says and cannot do everything and that they want to do something other than be with their child. In that sense, the amount of 4,000 kuna is too small an amount that does not guarantee a parent the possibility that is necessary, which is to leave a job in order to have financial independence, and he could also take care of his sick child. I will remind you that in a particularly difficult situation someone who is a single father or a single mother is in a situation because such a small amount cannot really survive in a household that depends on only one salary. Therefore, we believe that the state should give more and work better to ensure that when the status of the parent is already in place, adequate means that will allow this status to be realised in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51015	Are you asking for a vote? You have to point that out. Thank you very much. We'll vote on this amendment tomorrow. Let's move on, Amendment No. 41. The club of the representatives of MOST, please welcome state secretary Buric, an observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51016	Thank you, Vice President. So the amendment is not accepted. In particular, since the funds presented are planned in accordance with the dynamics of the implementation of the financial plan, on the other hand, the State Inspectorate is in its proposal to amend and supplement the state budget for the '21st. and projections for '22. and in '23. planning funds based on realistic needs to ensure the smooth work of the inspectorate. The reduction of funds would prevent regular implementation of contractual commitments, as well as regular business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51017	Thank you very much. A more detailed explanation of the amendment will be given by the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51018	So, we asked to re-schedul the funds and 300 000 kn to cover the cost of summering children with special needs without parental care. So do you know what it means to be a child with special needs and a child without parental care? There's no more vulnerable social group than that. It is also the most difficult group to adopt or adopt because of children with special needs. Unlike Italy, which sensitized society, such children also have the opportunity to enjoy the privileges of a warm family home, nothing has been done in Croatia. And now that we're looking for one of these small and insufficient but still some measure where such children will be provided, let's say, 300 children could be included to have a few days of vacation and escape from the homes they live in during the year, we're told there's something in our society, and we've found resources in the budget for what's a higher priority than the children I'm going to repeat, both with special needs and no parental care. This is a small and insufficient but symbolic gesture to which we send the key message that is necessary to this society, which is that these children also have the right to a happy childhood. If we cannot send it within this budget and as a state, will we be surprised that these children will continue to remain on the margins of society and without parental care as is the case now? Of course we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51019	Thank you very much. We'll vote tomorrow, we'll go to the next amendment. 42 representatives of Marin Miletic. Here you are, in the name of the government, Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51020	The amendment is not accepted since the funds presented are planned in accordance with the dynamics and implementation of the financial plan. In its proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget for 2021 as well as projections for 2022 and 2023, the State Inspectorate planned funds based on realistic needs to ensure the smooth work of the inspectorates is therefore not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51021	Thank you. An additional explanation of the amendment, means distinguished MP Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51022	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, The voter, Mr. Bukarica, colleagues and colleagues and respected secretary of state. So, this amendment would help a lot of Catholic scouts, over 1,000 young people in Croatia, in 19 years working in our country, although money is being overly channeled and leaving the Union of Scouts. Projects that Catholic scouts have been doing since the summer of the children of Srebrenica, children from Republika Srpska, children from Vukovar, children of Slavonia, are doing a lot of work with children. Especially on this desert island of Dragon, which was deserted until someone unknown built a villa, a villa on the desert island of Dragon, I welcome this time at the DORH and will soon remind them that it has been a year that they have not responded. So someone built a villa, someone built an illegal waterfront on the desert island of Dragon, a waterfront for about a boat of 25, 30 meters, I filed a criminal report a year ago to the DORH down in Sibenik, no one reacted, so now we're gonna start digging deeper, even further, we're not gonna give them a breath, we're going to play press with a sports dictionary saying. So, on that desert island that was mutilated by someone and invested about 50 million kunas, State Secretary, and you do what you can, did, to remove these lawless builders and mobs from our desert islands, on that island, were the only Catholic scouts on the island until then, according to all the eco stories. What is important, this camp has a name, named after the war of the Homeland of Rijeka, Valter Lulić called Luli, and please do what you can to help the Catholic scouts. I'd like the vice president to vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51023	Tomorrow they will vote on all amendments and so will yours, we will continue, Amendment No. 43, Advocacy Bridge Club. Here you go, Your Honor, State Secretary's manifest on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51024	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. Since the funds presented were planned in accordance with the implementation dynamics of the financial plan, the Ministry of Finance, more specifically the Tax Administration, in its budget proposal for 2021 as well as the 2022 and 2023 projections, planned the funds based on the real needs for the funds to ensure the smooth work of the body and the reduction of expenditure would prevent the implementation of commitments undertaken and planned and the amendment would not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51025	Thank you. The observation of your rejection of the amendment wants a distinguished representative of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51026	Secretary of State, this amendment was not about your money that you spend every year, this amendment was about giving money for project-technical documentation to the Center for Autism Patients. You didn't mention the autism patients at any point, all you care about is whether you have money. I don't allow that kind of story. So, I'll tell you again what I've been telling you all along. Learn, 40 billion kn spend more each year than in 2016. And you know it very well. You first. So I believe that you 40 billion kn that you spend every year more now than four years ago can find that thing you need. But you know, people who have diseased in their home from autism in Dubrovnik-Neretva County have nowhere to look for help. The first one is in Rijeka or Zagreb. And what I have to ask you, when they turn 21 and enter into social care, who will they address? There's not a single facility in our county that takes care of them, that gives them protection. No rehab, no sensory educators, no sensory walkers and no parks. Well, they're people, too. Are they part of our society or are you ashamed of them? I know it's a little harder for me to feel those who haven't had experience and such difficulties, but I'm asking you to get involved, you can get involved, and you can come to your minister later today and say, I don't want him calling us there, finally make this center.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51027	Time. Thank you. Search Thank you very much. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] We'll vote tomorrow. Next Amendment, No. 44 MPs, Marin Miletic, elect state secretaries to show the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51028	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. As in the previous explanation, funds have been made available in accordance with the dynamics and implementation of the financial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51029	Thank you very much. Would you like to show yourself further, Reverend Miletic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51030	Oh, absolutely. So respected vice president of HS, ma'am. A voter, a respected Mr. Bukarica, respected secretary of state, co-workers and colleagues. If you'd asked me, Marine, all the amendments you've proposed, and I've suggested a lot of them, pick one that would like to pass, I'd really, without any, no politics, no theatre, no pathetic, I'd say, let's help the kids with Down syndrome. So State Secretary, we have 1600 kids and people who have Down syndrome. They all have.../incomprehensible/... they're all, so they have the status of people with disabilities, 100%, that's what I was going to say. But they don't have a disability and that's a big problem. So they're not clear criteria. Yes, I will speak in free speech, I have from associations, of all things, therefore the obvious, etc., so I will meet the Croatian public once again. So all children and adults have a solution to 100% disability, but only a part of them exercise the right to a personal disability. The criteria for exercising the right to a personal disability are not uniform at national level. For example. Trisomnia isn't enough at all for art. And now watch what you have, you have a kid who therefore has Down's syndrome for the rest of his life, and because he doesn't have a personal disability, he can't have a priority in enrolment in kindergarten and then depend on the well-willed principal of kindergarten whether he takes that child or not. On the other hand, watch what money we're talking about. 1600 people in the Republic of Croatia have Down syndrome. We're talking about what, State Secretary, $2 million and $400,000? Well, that's basically three better cars driving here in the government of the Republic of Croatia. So we're talking about that amount, the annual amount, of course. So give me what you can, that at least this poor amendment will be accepted, you sign it, so I don't need it at all in the Bridge. adopt him in a month. [[Intruder: Time.]] Let's help the kids and the people with Down syndrome. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51031	Time. Excuse me, please take care of the weather. And you didn't say if you wanted to vote on the amendment tomorrow. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. Next Amendment, No. 45 MPs of Mira Bulj. I'm sorry, ma'am. Buric says that on behalf of the government, the amendment is obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51032	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. It should be mentioned here that other than 2 homes for older and powerless owned by the Republic of Croatia, all other homes are owned by units of regional (regional) self-government or other founders, e.g. private persons and their construction shall not be financed from the State budget in accordance with the provisions of Article 2. 116 subst. 5 Laws on Social Welfare. In addition, priority activities with regard to the care of older people are aimed at developing beyond institutional services to ensure the retention of older people in their own home, while health rehabilitation institutions are not in part of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Family and Social Policy, therefore the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51033	Thank you. Since the Bulja colleagues are gone, the amendment will be made by tomorrow's vote. Let's move on. Amendment No. 46 Clubs of Representatives of the Bridge, here are State Secretary's manifests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51034	Thank you, Vice President. Therefore, the amendment also does not accept, since the Social Care Act provides for the establishment of an institution, a home for older people, and not a home for pensioners, we also note that other than 2 homes for older persons owned by the Republic of Croatia, all other homes for older persons are owned by or units of regional, local, regional self-government or other founders, as I have already said, e.g. private persons and their construction shall not be financed from the state budget in accordance with the provisions of Article 2. 116 subst. 5 Laws on Social Welfare.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51035	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the amendment will be further reflected in your testimony, the esteemed representative of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51036	Dear Secretary of State, first I will present the problem we have proposed the amendment, and then I will show myself to this observation of yours. The reason why we have proposed an amendment, for 30 years in Dubrovnik, no new investment in the construction of a new home for pensioners and elderly people has been recorded in the Dubrovnik area for over 30 years. 30 years. That's number one. Number two, we are for this home in Medarev, which is planned in the City of Dubrovnik GUP, we have not invented any new location, it is already planned, it is your political party planned, so for it we have been looking for, it is almost an idea solution, the building permit is in the process of dating, so you have to get a little better information about what your parties are doing. This total investment cost 130, will cost 130 million kuna, we asked 50 million kuna for the rest of the money to be made out of the available EU funds, city budget, county budget, from the funds of the Mild Work Foundation, therefore it can be done, because at this point the situation in the city of Dubrovnik is at home for the elderly, for the pensioners to have the bedbugs, that they are not taken care of, that the administrative council appointed by the county of people without adequate expertise. The mayor's excuse from your party is that he has so many county boards to name that there, it happens. This is how the sector is run today for older and retired people. And that's why we're proposing this, because it's a disaster for the city of Dubrovnik. And what you said was the reason you justified it. I'm asking you if you're going to blow off local self-government every time it suits you you don't have the right to take a single lip out of local self-government, you're going to leave them all behind, we're going to find a way to finance it, but we're not going to give you lip because you're blowing us off when you need us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51037	Thank you, please. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51038	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51039	Thank you. We'll do it tomorrow. Please stick to time, once again all of you to stick to time because there are a lot of amendments, there's a lot of work ahead of us and we need to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Next Amendment No. The 47th Honored Representatives of Boska Ban Vlahek, please welcome on behalf of the government, State Secretary Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51040	Thank you. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted because already there is a project planned by the Center for Education and Education Čakovec, and the planned amount is sufficient to start the implementation of the project of the Centre for Education and Education in Čakovec. In cooperation with the centre and the founder of the centre, it is the final preparation of the project documentation, as well as the cost of work, as well as the financing or co-financing agreements which are the basis for the initiation of the procurement procedure, so the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51041	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives Ban Vlahek would you like to show yourself to this statement by the government's representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51042	I thank the esteemed secretary for the explanation. It is very important and I am glad that it is already located as you have said because the Center for Education and Education Čakovec is the only institution for the education of children with greater development difficulties in the area of Međimurje County, as well as the only institution in the town of Čakovec which is currently working towards a mixed model because due to the long-standing problem of lack of space teaching must take place in this way. I hope this part will come true, so we won't have to make any more amendments. Thank you very much, and I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51043	Thank you very much. We'll vote tomorrow. Thank you, Secretary of State Buric. We continue with a set of amendments, goodbyes, with a set of amendments addressed to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports. We have Secretary of State Sandra Herman with us. Good day to you. And we're starting with the 48th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Please, as a representative of the government, you're looking at the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51044	Thank you very much. It's a warm greeting to everyone one more time. The amendment is not accepted with an explanation that the tourism promotion of the Republic of Croatia is based on strategic and marketing plans in cooperation with HTZ and regional and local tourist communities. The Ministry of Tourism and Sports and HTZ contract each year to co-finance the tourism promotion of the Republic of Croatia, and all of course according to the annual work programme and the financial plan of the HTZ. As all activities are pre-set and planned, there is no need for additional resources because they are not even previously regulated by contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51045	Thank you very much. Appreciation on behalf of the promoter, distinguished representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51046	Interesting explanation. You're talking about some strategies and some plans, something pre-arranged. Ladies and gentlemen, if I'm not mistaken, we are in a moment of crisis that should have resettled and changed everything we've planned so far because unexpected losses have occurred, especially for those who depend on the tourist season. We haven't heard anything about new strategic plans, or new investments that would return to Croatia multiple times if we decided in this case for which we gave the amendment to the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So, what's the deal? Even 54% of the budget of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County was made tourism, and this year it was only the previous 15% of income. Well, people are out there in bankruptcy. When we take it in relation to what people there were investing in the state budget, which came from their revenues from tourism, and they paid the most at the level of the entire Croatia then this, this amendment should be seen as a visionary and as a business investment. Therefore, it is not about any particular interest and Dubrovnik-Neretva County but about the business investment that will be paid to the entire Republic of Croatia which is the beneficiary of that budget. Because if it is the county that can make the most of tourism, which shows that it has paid the most in the budget from tourism, then this kind of funding for its promotion will certainly be paid to the state budget which remains largely and primarily depends on tourism, in this sense our overall economic recovery. We will therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51047	Thank you very much. We'll vote tomorrow. Next Amendment No. 49th Honorable Representative Mira Bulj, please honor the Secretary of State to make your statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51048	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. I must point out that the Ministry of Tourism and Sports has excellent cooperation with the HGSS. Here is also a recently concluded agreement in a joint agreement of 3 million kunas on the activities of incentives to increase tourist safety and those funds are sufficient for all planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51049	Thank you very much. Since the applicant for the amendment is not with us tomorrow, we will vote on this amendment. Let's move on, next Amendment No. 50th of the same representative, the esteemed representative of Bulj, please show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51050	The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the funds to co-finance the construction of new or construction procedures on existing sports buildings, as well as the equipment of the same equipment, are planned in the state budget of the capital project co-finance the construction of construction operations on sport infrastructure, and are granted through a public call to local and regional and regional self-government units. A recent public call was concluded and contracts were signed and delivered to units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51051	Thank you very much. The same goes for this amendment, it will vote tomorrow as the applicant is not present. The next amendment of the same proposal for a representative of Bulja No. 51st, please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51052	The amendment is not accepted for reasons that there is no need for additional funding because it is sufficient for all the activities planned to be implemented by the end of the financial year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51053	Thank you very much. We'll vote on the amendment tomorrow. The applicant is not with us and the last amendment to this portfolio, Amendment number 52. It's the Most Representatives' Club. Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51054	The amendment is also not accepted, as is the case with Amendment No. 50. It seems to me, that I will repeat the funding for co-financing of new or construction procedures on existing sports buildings and the equipment of the same necessary equipment was planned in the state budget on a capital project co-financing of construction operations on sport infrastructure and given through a public call to regional and local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51055	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives of MOST, he wishes to respond to your testimony by the distinguished representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51056	Dearly respected, we have proposed that the 2 million kuna be awarded to complete the construction of the athletic trail at Lapad City Stadium in Dubrovnik. We're suggesting it because you probably don't do it. You're telling me that you, that you're going to be assigned, that you've invited everything I've been listening to since I got into politics. I didn't come in that long ago in 2013, I'm listening forever to something being promised, something going to be made here are going calls, 5 times, the citizens of Dubrovnik know that 5 times the road opened, the fast road Osojnik through the Dubrovnik coast, Sanader was still opening for the first time, now they're announcing it again during the election campaign, now they're going to. It's not until now, but it will now. So in the same way you're telling me here we're going to, just call another little bit. So now you can increase by 2 million kunas this item and now, tomorrow you're assigned to end it now you can, yes, yes, there's no I was in the government, there's not one thing that could stop me if I decided not to do it. You can do it, your minister can do it, or you're telling me that he's incompetent, that he doesn't understand, that he's not a minister, that he's a clown. No, the minister makes a decision, the minister can make a decision to increase the item by 2 million kuna and make an athletic trail so that we no longer listen to promises as we listen to them all the time rather than finally go into realisation. You can do it. And you won't, that's another thing. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51057	Thank you, thank you. We'll vote tomorrow. Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This concludes with the amendments submitted to the proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 with projections for '22. and '23. As far as the Ministry of Tourism's portfolio is concerned. We continue with the Ministry of Health with us is Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic, welcome to you. The first amendment, or the 53rd total, the first one in your portfolio, is that of the club, the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please read the amendment number 53 on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51058	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. In 2020 KBC Split launched a public procurement procedure for the development of a proposal for a public-private partnership project for the regulation of transport areas and the construction of an underground garage. With regard to the permanent settlement of the traffic in the KBC Split hospital, he started co-operation with the municipal company Split parking with the aim of defining an acceptable solution and the optimal planning of future transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51059	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Commissioner Kujundzic wants to further explain the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51060	Thank you, Chairman. So, you say the 2020 public procurement procedure in a conversation with Split parking. There's no solution to that type. Have you ever been down there? Have you tried parking in front of the KBC in Split? You or anyone, the minister is certainly and I know this project is not worth 2 kunas the minister doesn't have, he's worth a lot more. In 2018, however, construction of the garage on 5 floors was announced. The problem of parking space shortages is not a medical issue that has been burdening nearly a million patients annually according to KBC Split, along with the major problem of KBC employees Split who need to get to work for an hour and a half early to successfully park here. As I said, the 2018 announced the construction of a large garage on 5 floors within the Split KBC on the Firulas and it was explained that the necessary approvals of the then director and the permit for that project were requested and that, following the approval of the Ministry of Health itself, it could immediately proceed to the construction process. It was 2018. we are today in 2021 you are negotiating something with Split parking, great. Following the above, we propose that these 3 million kunas be formed and we ask for the vote of the respected president, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51061	Thank you very much, of course there will be a vote tomorrow on all the amendments that have been requested, and so will yours. Let's move on, Amendment number 54. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to report on the amendment on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51062	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. When making changes and supplementing the budget for 2021 with projections for '22. and '23. The Ministry of Health planned to redistribute funds according to investment cycle possibilities and to implement all procedures for the purchase of diagnostic devices. The Ministry of Health is aware of the positions of importance of KBC Split and health care throughout the Split-Dalmatia County, which is clearly seen from the budget in 2021 and the budget of previous years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51063	Thank you very much, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the promoter, the esteemed representative of Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51064	Thank you, Chairman. You say the investment cycle in 2021. KBC at 2003 or '04 level, you say the ministry is only conscious today, not until this year. So, apart from the lack of chronic lack of personnel in KBC Split, the big problem is the lack of adequate equipment. In fact, because of the old appliances, I won't say from Napoleon's age but they're not too far off and waiting lists that are growing because of the above problem, patient pressure is getting bigger and bigger. If you take into account that KBC receives about a million patients a year, not only from all of Dalmatia but also from neighbouring BiH and numerous tourists, this is after Zagreb, another hospital by the number of patients at Croatia's level. While Split's KBC is the only major hospital, he would dare say in the region, in Zagreb the same number of people available have as much as 7 hospitals and you say that the ministry of consciousness of what didn't come yesterday but has been there for 30 years. We believe that there is a need to allocate additional resources for the procurement of new devices that would significantly help improve the quality of work and reduce existing waiting lists. I hope that the Ministry will be very specific about this problem and that it will react without delay, we are looking for a vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51065	Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment tomorrow. Next Amendment No. 55 distinguished representatives of Katarina Peovic. I ask the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government to be made known about the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51066	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. At its meeting on 2 June 2021, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded its adoption of the framework and guidelines for the implementation of the Revitalisation and Production Plan of the Immunological Institute. Since the implementation of the Immunological Institute’s depth audit is under way for the purpose of determining the state and obligations of the company for the status resolution of the dualities of those entities, as well as the production of documentation defining an optimal model of financing and implementation of that project, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51067	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Peovic wishes to further explain the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51068	This is the meaning of this conclusion of the plan to implement the revitalisation of the Immunological Institute in which the construction of the vaccine factory is planned and I therefore accept the Ministers' proposal for the revitalisation of the Immunological One. So if you've already come to the conclusion that, after the devastation of Immunological since 2015, what the workers' front warned at the time, today only some on the COVID crisis are profiting, if that conclusion has occurred, it's amazing how the funds rose compared to last year for the Immunology only by 19%, means how we're going to finance this plant, how we're going to start that vaccine production. I'm gonna take this opportunity to say why it's important. So, there's always talk in public about this, about this blackmail of wholesale drugs in the COVID crisis that needs to be returned to those funds that are certainly spent but what's not said is why it's important to run the Immunological. So Immunologically, he was able to produce high-quality blood products, immunological medicines, anti-snap antibodies, bacterial, viral vaccines, among world-renowned vaccines, were vaccines against measles considered to be one of the best in the world. Since production has ceased in the Immunological Institute, an earring vaccine, we pay 5 times more annually, a diphtheria and tetanus vaccine, more than 10 times the price, from 2015 to 2019 a suspicious purchase of medicines was spent 1.7 billion kuna, 1/3 for immuno-biological medicines and vaccines that were made more cheaply by the Immunological Institute. Not only do we save money but the return on capital in that dam is 37%, colleagues and colleagues, 37% means the return on capital in the brand of drug production. The largest pharmaceutical companies, 10 of them have income from 2013 to 2017, 37.5 billion kuna, of course I'll ask for a vote on the amendment. [[Intruder Voter: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51069	Thank you, and we will also respect this need, or a business obligation, when they create a prerequisite for the amendment to vote, thank you. Let's move on. Next Amendment, Amendment No. 56 distinguished representatives of Vesna Vucilović. I ask the Honorable Secretary of State of State Dulibic to be shown on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51070	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds for the A 618207 administration and management activities are necessary for the regular operation of the Ministry of Health and the implementation of the commitments undertaken. Therefore, the proposed reduction of resources is not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51071	Thank you very much. Since there are no honourable MPs here, tomorrow we will declare the amendment to the vote. Let's move on, Amendment No. 57 Advocacy Bridge Club, please show off on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51072	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The planned funds at the activities of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute are sufficient for regular business of the Institute by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51073	Thank you very much. Additional explanation or indication of your refusal, the esteemed representative Petrov, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51074	Your explanation is minimally rude and I'll explain why. So, we've asked to provide all year's emergency medical care in Vela Luka for an amount of 50000 kuna. I'll tell you that the ambulance has been in Vela Luka all year long. Cancelled four, five years ago. After that, this entire year's medical emergency was sent to Blato in Korcula. Is that your name ringing? And if there's no condition, yes, your name is ringing because your boss is Branko Bacic of the Mud. And imagine, in Vela Luka are all the conditions there. From x-rays, labs, it's all there. And it was there. And I don't have a problem, so let's have the Blato and the town of Korčula, but why are you killing Vela Luka? You know what you gave Vela Lucy? You gave her a tourist nurse, you gave her weekend duty Saturday from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. And Sunday nights from 8 to 8 p.m. That's what you gave the veil to Lucy in return. So you know what I'm gonna tell you? People who go live in Vela Luka to the island must either be geniuses or adventurers or very defiant people. I listen to your story all the time that Croatia needs to develop evenly. I will send you and your family and your children to the island and I will give you what you give them at this time and you will survive. Be brilliant. Feel a little call of nature. Be adventurous. And that's what you're telling me right now, we don't have any money. You have money for yourself and your family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51075	Time. Thank you. You're asking for a vote, I presume? [[Intruder Petrov: Here you can also enable Korčula.]] We'll vote tomorrow. [[Intruder Petrov: Of course.]] Let's move on. Next amendment to the same Club of Representatives Bridge Amendment No 58. I'm asking the Honorable Secretary of State on behalf of the Government to be made known about the amendment submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51076	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51077	Thank you. Who, on behalf of the Proposer, will have the need to further explain? Dear Representative Petrov, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51078	Dearly beloved, I have proposed an amendment to obtain a new helicopter so that we may have a service of rapid care of patients within an hour called the golden clock. And the moment someone has a heart attack, a stroke that within an hour he can take care of himself at the hospital. Given our geographical location, we have no other way to do this than by helicopter. The current mayor spoke about the emergency helicopter service at large bells a month before the election. You know how he solved it? Within a month, the helicopter he was transporting broke down, that's how he solved it, and then the helicopter stood outside the machine for two, three weeks. And just because I've been pushing every day, I've been on all the TVs so he doesn't suffer political damage faster, they've better fixed the helicopter. And now we're going to depend again on when it's going to break again. And it's not a problem for him to break down and fix it. The problem was in that time without helicopters, because in that time without helicopters, there were people who got hurt in health because we didn't have that favor. And I'm asking you today to provide additional resources to get a new helicopter, not to drive old helicopters, to have the adequate health care you enjoy, the kind of people in other parts of our country enjoy. I think we by the Constitution, so new what we pay out of our salary every month deserves to have the same. Me in Metkovic, the one in Dubrovnik, the one on Lapad or on Korčula equally pays a health contribution and has the right to equal health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51079	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51080	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51081	Thank you. Next amendment to the 59 Club of Representatives of the Most. On behalf of the Government, I ask that the Secretary of State be made aware of the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51082	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The General Hospital of Zadar is an acute county hospital that includes a national plan for the development of clinical hospital centres, clinical hospitals, clinics and general hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, so further investment will be brought into line with that plan document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51083	Dear Representative Kujundzic, on behalf of the promoter, shows that the amendments are being rejected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51084	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry that you have to defend the condition of a particularly bad condition, and I know that you are neither guilty nor responsible. It may speak more of the one who sent you here to suffer our verbal rains instead of the one whose hand holds the keys to a better condition. In the Imot region, the birthplace has been shut down. 84% of newborns stand for birthplace on the Zagvozd highway – Dugopolje. The neonatology department for newborns from birth to release. So all children who can take care of the department are transported from Zadar to Split. A significant number of pregnant women who have a better chance of having their baby end up in neonatology, so whether it's twins being stopped or something. They were sent weeks ago to Split. We believe it is necessary to provide funds for Zadar's neonatology to reduce the overload of the Split hospital, which is being gravitated by four counties, as well as with the goal of giving birth at the end of the Zadar County area, are not forced to go either to Split or to Zagreb. When we've already shut down despite the fact that we have a vertical power in Imotski which I mentioned as well in Zadar, so ask your superiors to show more power and power and vertical power and make it more active, or there'll be a shot in the blank again. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51085	Thank you for sticking to the weather. Let's move on. Next amendment of Amendment No. 60 to the Honorable Representative, Mira Bulja. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to make a statement on behalf of the Government on the proposed amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51086	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. General is the Veteran Hospital Croatian Pride Knin has signed a functional integration contract with the General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County. Further development of General Veteran Hospital Croatian Pride Knin will comply with functional integration goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51087	Thank you very much. Since the Honorable Representative of Bulj has no record of the same amendment, we will be clear by vote tomorrow. We're done with these amendments. Thank you very much. Goodbye. On the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 per ministry. We are now continuing with the amendments to the proposal for amendments to the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2021 and projection of the 2022 and 2023 plans. So we're starting with extra budget users. With us is Secretary of State Mr. Mile Horvatt. Good day to you. Welcome. And we're starting with the 1st Amendment of that Club of Representatives of the Bridge. Please, Secretary of State, please be clear on behalf of the Government on the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51088	Thank you. Amendment No. 1 is not accepted, namely the amendment proposes to provide resources for the disposal of seawater from the centre of Blato, the construction of sewers and new water lines. The preparation of Euro Agglomeration Projects is under way, which refers to the disposal and treatment of waste water, whose construction would be co-financed by eu funds. Croatian waters have been actively following the preparation since the beginning and are participating in co-financing with 85% of the financial resources and 4.25 million kuna respectively. Making project documentation, excerpts of location, construction permits, settlement of property businesses is in the final phase. So the coastal drain settlement is an obligation of the local self-government unit, and it can be built through the realization of eu projects of agglomeration through the same public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51089	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Most Petrov, please stick to the time I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51090	Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have asked you to assign 7 million kunas to this amendment to get rid of the rainwater that floods the center of the Blato on Korčula. If it were honesty, that's congratulation, that's what your boss Branko Bacic should be providing. I shouldn't write the amendment, he's from that place or that place became irrelevant to him after he lost it. Obviously, the place is important as long as he's ruling, but it's pretty weird. The reason we're looking for 7 million kunas is because the center of the Blato on the Korčula blue. The second thing, the reason why it is requested is because the EU can't compete, Croatia's waters wash their hands by changing the rules of the competition, you didn't mention any of it. Why didn't you? Why weren't you transparent and said the project couldn't be completed without a direct grant? Have you checked why you can't build a project? So I ask you next time you come here for a pay phone and look at at least the Bridge amendments don't answer in general because we never set up the amendment and submitted the amendment for no very specific reason. And I'm telling you, you left people on Korčula because they no longer suit you politically, the project can no longer be completed, we need 7 million kunas of direct assignment, and you're the first to wash your hands of them and you don't want to tell people. I demand a vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51091	Thank you very much and thank you for sticking to the planned time. Let's move on, next Amendment No. 2 Representatives of Mir Bulj, please state secretary declare the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51092	Thank you. Amendment No. 2 is not accepted, the amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a water supply system for settlements in the Segt municipality. The realisation of the Prgomet-Seget water supply subsystem is planned on stage. For the primary water supply network of the Zagorje part of the Municipality of Seget construction permit has been issued and works have been started to build the same. The construction of the sub-system under consideration will provide drinking water for settlements in the Zagorje part of the Municipality of Seget as well as settlements in the Municipality of Prgomet which until then had no public water supply resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51093	Thank you very much. Since the proposal is not available in the assembly, the amendment will be held tomorrow. Next Amendment No. 3 of the same representative, Representative Bulj, please show on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51094	Amendment No. 3 is not accepted, the amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a water supply system for settlements in the town of Sinja and the Municipality of Muć. The development of project documentation of the water supply facilities of the Ogorsko-Zelovsko plato area is under way, the idea of a water supply solution for the Zele subsystem has been developed and project documentation is under way. Realisation of the projects under consideration will improve the existing water supply system and provide drinking water for settlements in the Ogorsko-Zelovsko plateau area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51095	Thank you very much. I repeat, there will be no vote on the amendment tomorrow. Next Amendment No. 4 Honorable Representative Mira Bulj, please show on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51096	Amendment No. 4 is not accepted, the amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a water supply system for settlements in the town of Sinja and the Municipality of Muć. The construction of project documentation of water supply facilities of the Ogorsko-Zelovsko plato area is under way, following the construction of the project documentation, the establishment of permits for building the power to be launched in the construction of those facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51097	Thank you very much. I must repeat and conclude, as a representative, there will be no evidence of your rejection of the amendment to the same vote tomorrow. Next Amendment No. 5 of the same representative, the esteemed representative of Bulj, please show on behalf of the Government the honourable Secretary of State Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51098	Amendment No. 5 is not accepted, the amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a water supply system for settlements in the Municipality of Island and the City of Trilja according to priorities and possibilities will consider resolving the water supply of the settlements of Rože and Vostane, since the same mountain settlements are quite remote from the existing water supply systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51099	Thank you very much. Since the applicant is not present in the assembly, it cannot be shown whether or not he accepts your explanation of the vote on the amendment will take place tomorrow. Amendment No. 6 Proposer of Representative Miro Bulj, an indication on behalf of the Government of State Secretary Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51100	Amendment No. 6 is not accepted, the amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a water supply system for settlements in Licko-Senj County. Croatian waters through their annual water management plan together with water service suppliers in Ličko-Senj County are systematically investing in water supply projects. In the last four years 48 million kuna has been invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51101	Thank you very much. The same thing about the amendment will come out tomorrow, since the Proposer can't say anything about your obvious or rejection of the amendment. Next Amendment No. 7 of the same proposal of the honourable representative of Mira Bulj, please show on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51102	Amendment No. Seven is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a water supply system for a settlement in Sibenik-Knin County. The work was completed on the recovery of the pressure line, the Miljačka-Radučka pipeline, and for the purposes of water supplying the settlement Radučić in the municipality of Ervenik, works are under way on the construction of water supply in the area.../incomprehensible/... Biocic and in the area of the town of Knin as a concept solution for the water supply system Drniš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51103	Thank you very much. Since the motion cannot be made clear about your testimony, it will be held on the same, on this amendment to vote tomorrow. Amendment 8, Proposer Miro Bulj, please be clear on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51104	Amendment No. Eight is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a water supply system for a settlement in Zadar County. Work is under way to build water supply for the settlements Vukšić and Provic, construction works for the Kožlovac water park and preparation of works on the construction of water supply for the settlements of Islam Greece. Also, work is under way to produce water supplies for the Krušev area in the area of the town of Obrovec, as well as water supplies in the area of the underwater direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51105	Thank you very much. Given the fact that the applicant cannot be shown about your reasoning of the rejection of the amendment, the vote will be held tomorrow. Amendment No. 9 Proposer Dear Representative Miro Bulj, please welcome the Secretary of State, and be clear about the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51106	Amendment No. Nine won't be accepted. In fact, it is a grant contract for a project to improve the water infrastructure of the agglomeration Sinj signed on 25 April 2019 between the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Waterway and the disposal of the Cetina region. The total eligible costs of the project are around 302 million kuna, with grants from the cohesion fund around 211 million kuna and 69.91%, respectively, while the remaining difference of 91 million kuna is co-financed by national funds. Since the grant contract was signed in 2019 on the basis of an assessment and a feasibility study from 2018, Croatian waters have been aware of labour market disturbances and time-outs and have submitted to the end-user a document, instructions on the end-user on the conditions of possible conclusion of the addendum of a grant contract explaining the ways and conditions of financing the project in justified cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51107	Thank you very much. Moving on, Amendment No. 10, Advocacy Club of the Bridge, please show on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51108	Amendment No. 10 is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the creation of a project documentation for the launch of the Konavo field irrigation process. However, at this time at the request of Dubrovnik-Neretva County of 20.1. this year in the management plan of the Croatian waters for 2021 under the implementation of the national project of irrigation and management of agricultural land and water, co-financing was included in the production of a pre-investment study of the Milleoracian arrangement of the Konavo field in order to determine the current interest of the end-user and set up variations of technical solutions with the analysis of excess water. The production of the study will be financed by 80% of Croatian water and 20% by Dubrovnik-Neretva County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51109	Thank you very much. I see, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Petrov wishes to point out your position on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51110	Mr. Horvat, I wonder how much this pre-investment study costs. Can you answer how much this pre-investment study costs? He can't answer, [[Subject Voter: Unable to respond.]] But it's not safe under a few million kunas. [[Intruder: You can give, express your position.]] For what? To examine the interest of end-users. To ask farmers do you want us to bring you the will to water your fields? Hello! Well, I mean, what can a man tell you about it? So you're really messing with all the people in the country. You want me to stay normal, stay calm on this? To determine whether the end-user farmers are interested in you watering them a field. That's a lot. That's a lot. I'll tell people here and the entire public, 2700 acres has a Konavo field. 2400 acres doesn't work. Every year you lose 120 million kunas of products that can be created, which are not created because you are unable to bring them water. You're in no position to carry out your compatriots. It's something you've been promising for decades! Every time from one choice to another, it will now. Every time you miss a document. And people leave Croatia. The fields are not used. What was used 30 years ago is no longer used. Why? Because you need to find out after 30 years if they want water. Here, I tell you, they want water. Free of charge. Get them some water. Give me the money. Alleviate our fields. Give us a chance to live. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51111	Thank you very much. You'll have a vote tomorrow. Amendment No. 11 representatives of Ante Kujundzic, please report to Mr Horvat on behalf of the Government on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51112	Thank you. Amendment No. 11 unacceptable. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the production of the project documentation and the launch of the Imot field irrigation and disposal process. So far, an IPA programme has created an idea project of a public irrigation system and an environmental and natural impact study, but it has been withdrawn from the process of acceptance due to lack of water in the accumulation of Ritice in its existing state. Rehabilitation of Riče is a prerequisite for the implementation of this project, therefore it has been approached to create a project of the Ričica dam's recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51113	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kujundzic, do you want to show yourself as a proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51114	Yes, thank you. So, if I understood you correctly, an idea project was made and an environmental impact study was done, which not after that, of course, was withdrawn because of, you mentioned, Ritice. If an idea project was done, could anyone then see that it is pointless to begin at all with an idea project and an environmental impact study if we have a problem that precedes it, and it is water-accumulating Lake Ritice, or is it one category, I don't know what form of doctorate, that someone should conclude? It's a 95 km2 field, an Imot-bek field that only deals with 10%. The same as in the previous presentation as Mr. Petrov's, a huge issue of the commercial part of the waterproof canals that are being held irregularly. By inaction in the last 30 years. in the area of a branch that in ancient times one form and fed the Imotian landscape. Today, with the opportunities offered by tourism as such in the area of Imotska krajina, there is a huge potential in the placement of everything in this form, so by the form of irrigation of the Imotsko polje, it enables the Imotski man to live and work on one side, and on the other hand that without any difficulty, his product is placed on the market. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment anyway, and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51115	Thank you very much. The amendment will be voted tomorrow. We're moving on, next up is Amendment No. The 12th Honorable Representative of Mira Bulj, please be aware of Mr Horvat's amendment as a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51116	Thank you. Amendment No. 12 is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the production of the project documentation and the launch of the watering and draining process of the Drnik polje. Sibenik-Knin County and Croatian Water have developed idea projects with several variants of technical solutions for water capture from the source of the river Cicola and a study of the impact of the procedure on the environment and nature. The implementation of the impact assessment procedure on environmental interventions has established that such procedures would significantly endanger protected fish species and the project could not be further developed in this direction. However, based on a hydrological study in the management plan for the Croatian waters for 2021. In the context of the implementation of the National Water Protection Project, it is envisaged to co-finance water research works at three locations in the Petrovic field, which should provide detailed information on available water quantities for irrigation purposes. The water research works will be financed in terms of 50% of Croatian water and 50% of Sibenik-Knin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51117	Thank you very much. There is no proposal in the assembly, so we will vote on the amendment tomorrow in a vote. Next Amendment No. 13th of the same proposal by the honourable representative, Mir Bulj, please, on behalf of the government, please make this clear on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51118	Amendment No. 13. It's not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the irrigation of the Sinj field. Split-Dalmatia County and Croatian Waters have developed a conceptual solution to the irrigation of the Sinjsko-Dalmatia Field, and an idea irrigation project has been developed for the location of Trnovac. The process is under way to assess the impact of environmental interventions and the ecological network.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51119	Thank you very much. The amendment will also be declared by tomorrow's vote, since the motion does not exist. Next Amendment, Amendment No. 14, Proposer Miro Bulj, please declare yourself on behalf of the Government on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51120	Amendment No. The 14th government does not accept. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the creation of a project documentation for the initiation of the Vrgorak field irrigation process. In accordance with the national irrigation project in the plans for irrigation of the Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the irrigation of the Vrgorsko polje is not envisaged since the area in question is also the area of sanitary protection of the source of drinking water from the source Klokun and the Blue Eye.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51121	Thank you. So the government doesn't accept the amendment, the promoter won't be able to show up on the same thing. The amendment will be voted tomorrow. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State Horvat. We continue with the amendments, the debate on amendments to the amendment and the addition of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2021. and the projection of the 2022 and 2023 plan, with us on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Allen Gospić, welcome. We're going with the first amendment, it's an amendment to the proposal of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you are, Secretary of State, please, on behalf of the government, read the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51122	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Amendment No. One is not accepted. The amendment proposes to include the Orebic bypass procedure in the construction plan and the financial plan. Croatian roads prepare project documentation at the level of ideas and main projects with the exit of local and construction permits for the Orebic bypass. At the same time, innovation of the environmental impact study is under way and will continue with further activities after these procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51123	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51124	Dear Secretary of State, we asked for funds to be allocated to build a detour near Orebic. The same tour of Orebić in 2011. Croatian roads, which you have come here to defend, have come up with a solution on the acceptability of environmental procedures, in 2011, there is a 10th year, your institution that you are defending here with us today. In 2014, the same institution, the same company of the Croatian Roads, performed additional investigative works, more specifically positioning the route. After that, they were supposed to ask for a location and construction permit, and you tell me that after 8 years. There's another paper missing. Really. Really. We asked for a bypass around Orebić because all the traffic going to Korčula, I think you are at least so familiar with it, is going through the strict center of Orebić, through narrow roads. In addition to being an inadequate road for such traffic you planned a project ferry port in... which was left out there somewhere on the side. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is there a road to this, who was planning it, and now that you need to allocate funds for it and you need to connect a ferry port... get out of the strict center of Orebić something you started doing 10, 15 years ago today after 10, 15 years you say you can't yet because you lack one piece of paper. Well, these investors of ours who want to come to Croatia invest something when they invest I have to congratulate them, buy them dinner, something, anything, anything because they succeeded, they succeeded when our state-owned company couldn't finish the road in 10 years because it lacked paper. Well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51125	Are you asking for a vote? You'll have a vote tomorrow. [[Intruder Petrov: Looking for a vote.]] The next amendment is also proposed by the same representative club Mosta Amendment No. 2. I ask the Government's representative to plead on the proposed amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51126	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the town of Metkovic's merger with the shortest connection to Metković – Metković. Croatian roads started with a project preparation to mention the project, but in the meantime, the county plan envisioned the road was categorized as a county road and passed into the jurisdiction of the county road administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51127	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, your testimony to your testimony on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51128	Dearly beloved, we have been asking for years to join Metkovic on the highway. You know what it's like to see a highway a few miles away and spend 15 minutes on it? You know what it means to us to people who want to come invest in the valley of Neretva, for jobs? And now watch the absurd in our country, we've been suggesting it for years. You find these and those reasons why you can't, so there's some paper missing, so we're not in this budget, so we're going to go into the next budget and now after 5 years you've exhausted those reasons now the new reason and now we're not responsible anymore, now the county's responsible for it you're asking. What are we going to do for the next five years? Great. Is there any County money? You don't know. That's interesting, because for the more amendments that we've submitted here today, you said we're not interested. Local self-government, it's the county administration that's responsible. But you're taking incomes from the salaries of people living in that area to fill your government register. So when you're as easy to break off as you've cut us off right now, leave our incomes. Don't touch our income. Don't take our lip. We'll make a date on the highway ourselves from what we're giving you. We give you money, and you say it's not your problem. Yeah, that's your problem. I don't care if the county still runs the same political party. Please make us a date on the highway. Prove that the verticals of your function that you boast about. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51129	Thank you very much. There will be a vote tomorrow on your amendment. Let's move on. Next up is Amendment 3 of the same proposal from the Club of Representatives of the Most. I ask the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government to be made aware of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51130	The amendment is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the town of Metkovic's merger with the shortest connection to Metković – Metković. Croatian roads have re-started the project preparation for the project, but in the meantime, the county plan has categorized the road as a county road and has moved into the jurisdiction of the county road administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51131	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petrov, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51132	So this is the same amendment as last amendment. You must understand that you will suffer political damage until you do this, and I will if I have to visit every household in the Neretva Valley and tell them that you are the reason why they don't have a date on the highway, and why Sanader's village has a date on the highway. So let them vote for you again. Your mayor Metkovic, I have to tell you, he's not mine. Why isn't it mine? Because he was able to make an obvious deal with you that we don't need a new bridge in Metkovic. He's not mine. He's after that if he did it no longer my mayor. He's yours. He's from your political party, he managed to do it. Now you're coming to me and telling me you won't even give us a date on the freeway. I'll try to explain it to everyone for the next four years, so if they want you after that, and until that moment, I'll warn you about the same thing, and you'll suffer political damage. I'll make you pressure. You'll finally do it, because you'll lose the election. And I know you don't like to lose power not because you're trying to do good. It brings you indirect good, I must say. Well, out of fear of losing indirectly well in private, you'll build a highway, you'll make a date on the freeway, I promise you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51133	Thank you very much. The amendment will be voted tomorrow. Next Amendment of Amendment 4 to the Honorable Representative, Ante Kujundzic. I'm asking the Secretary of State on behalf of the Government for your reading of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51134	Amendment number 4 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the development of a project documentation for the construction of a connecting road between the A1 highway and the Imotski City as well as the connecting road itself. Croatian roads have launched an idea solution and an impact study on the environment and ideas projects with a local permit on the planned state road Zagvozd – Imotski. The design is ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51135	Thank you very much. Would you like to take your word for it? Yeah. Here's your Honorable representative, Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51136	Thank you, Chairman. So, in November on the draft budget, this same amendment was. A few months earlier in this assembly, it was said that an environmental impact study had already been done. So it exists at the end of the video. You say that Croatian roads are looking for one of the solutions, there were 3 variants, variant B3 is the one chosen. So I don't know how you're looking for a solution if it's already chosen as a variant over a little over 17 km of total value of just over 550 million kuna. The only capital project, as well as the last capital project that Imotska krajina received, was received from Dr. Eve Sanader and I thank him this way, and that's St. Elijah. This road is the second lung in the Imot region of each individual who would, of course, stay up there, and on the other hand, is actually one road that would charge drastically all those I personally mentioned in the amendments that come in view of the main direction towards Western BiH. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51137	Thank you very much, the vote on your amendment will be held tomorrow. The next amendment, Amendment number 5, is proposed by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please be known as a representative of the Government for the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51138	Amendment number 5 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of a connecting road between the A1 highway and the city of Drniš as well as the connecting road itself. By reconstructing the state road D33, the town of Drniš is connected by highway A1, and in addition Croatian roads produce project and documentation at the level of the main project of the Drniš bypass, the design is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51139	Thank you very much. Since there is no proposal, it cannot be apparent whether the amendment is withdrawing or requesting a vote. A vote will be held tomorrow under the Rules of Procedure on the amendment. Following the amendment of the same applicant, Proposer Miro Bulj, Amendment number 6. Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51140	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of a project documentation for the construction of a connecting road between the A1 highway and the City of Knin as well as the combined roads themselves. Currently Croatian roads are preparing project documentation for the Knina bypass through Kninsko Polje. The development of the Sibenik-Knin County spatial plan is under way and the new route is not plotted into spatial plans afterwards will continue with project preparation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51141	Thank you very much, so the government does not accept, the motion cannot be seen about this, so the amendment will be held by the vote. Next Amendment 7 is also the same promoter, MP Miro Bulj. Please, on behalf of the Government, an indication of the proposed amendment of the Representative of Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51142	Amendment 7 is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the project documentation for and construction of the connecting road between the A1 highway and the town of Sinj. Croatian roads have agreed and there is an ongoing development, nivelation of the idea solution and new environmental impact studies for the Dicma bypass. Bringing spatial-planned documentation to the Split-Dalmatia County will continue further during the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51143	Thank you very much. The same thing about this amendment must be held tomorrow's vote. The next amendment, Amendment number 8, is proposed by the Most Representatives' Club. Please state whether or not to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51144	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the project documentation and the start of the construction of the fast road Knin-Garesnica Kutina-Garesnica-Daruvar. In that direction, Croatian roads already have planned shares in preparation. The requested project is not included in the road construction and maintenance plan. In the next period, the justification of the project will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51145	If anyone on behalf of the MOST Club wishes to give, yes, a reaction to your reasoning or refusal of amendments, the distinguished representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51146	You said right, you've got it in preparation, it'll explain itself one fine day. So can you believe that there is a county in Croatia, the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, which is one of the few in which there is not a single meter of fast road. When we spoke here and defended the amendments on kindergartens, we said that children in Split-Dalmatia County, in Dalmatia Zagora also have the right to children's parks, so here we are talking about that they are not going to travel from one place to another in the Bjelovar-Belova County of people on mules. What kind of Croatia do we live in? Do we see only Croatia from the position of Zagreb where we have roads and highways and fast roads and all possible forms of transport to come from point A to point B, or we know about Croatia, which unfortunately belongs to the Bjelovar-Bilogor County because Croatia is not as developed as it should be and in which there is no meter of fast road. It is now a prerequisite for attracting investments from transport isolation at the same time and a prerequisite for the rest of the population in those areas. We ask that funds be provided for the preparation of the project documentation and for the start of construction of this fast road so that we will no longer be ashamed in the Croatian Parliament when we must say that there are parts of Croatia that have not even heard of the fast roads where our budget, or this government, did not enable them, and when we ask for it, when we warn and when we ask for it justifiably, then we hear this future, is in preparation for one beautiful day, from the promise never anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51147	I assume, Your Honor, that we will vote tomorrow on this amendment as well. The 9th Amendment also proposes the club of representatives of MOST. Please, on behalf of the Government, honorary secretary of state, that you may be manifested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51148	Amendment number nine is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the fast road Križevci-Koprivnica-Gola. Croatian roads conducted a tender for works and selection of performers on the part of the construction of the state road DC10 Križevci-Kloštar Vojakovići, Vojakovački cca 7.5 km, amounting to 228 million 837 thousand and 800 kuna without VAT. Croatian roads have agreed on an idea solution and an environmental impact study with the outcome of a solution on the acceptability of procedures on the environment and the production of all types of idea projects with the establishment of location permits for the fast road Vrbovec-Križevci-Koprivnica-Gola DC 41 and the design is ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51149	Thank you. He wishes to show himself on behalf of the promoter, the distinguished representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51150	We have heard about the different documentation you already possess and which should be guaranteed that something about this road will finally be done. I'm sorry, but neither I nor the Croatian citizens living in Koprivnica believe something like that. This is one of those roads that has been spoken of for decades, not for years, but for decades, and that are promised in the course of every election campaign. You have already spoken many times as if it had already been made and, judging by your words, this amendment would not have been possible, but everything you say remains a dead letter on paper. Podravina as well as its centre Koprivnica is part of Croatia, which is known for its industrious and self-classified people, the agricultural industry especially in Koprivnica, where the majority survived, regardless of the overall known consequences of the transformed Croatian reality, are the cornerstones of this pietious part of Croatia. In addition to all the difficulties that the sea sectors of all these years for this region, the particular problem is inadequate traffic connection, mainly with the capital and especially the epicentre of the most important events in Croatia. The two-track fast road that was to connect Podravina and Koprivnica with Zagreb, but also with the hub of international routes, has been promised for decades, and the only thing that happened in 2016 was to reach the Križevci and despite the promises never went towards Koprivnica, which remained in the busy appendix. Not only is Slavonia in the depopulation problem in this problem is both the sub-level and bilogorian villages. If you don't do something finally to get this out of the way, and you can accept this amendment, that's the problem. moving forward instead of finally getting rid of it. [[Intruder Voter: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51151	Thank you. You're asking for a vote, I presume. Okay. And we'll vote on this amendment tomorrow. E dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs have come time to respect epidemiological measures and ventilation, so I now declare a break until 13.00 hours to clear up a little bit, and then we continue to take a stand on behalf of the clubs, standardly and afterwards with the remaining debate on amendments. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 1:00. MEETING AT 12:51 P.M. We are continuing to discuss the amendments. We stopped at extra budget users, amendment No. 10 Clubs of Representatives of the Most, I ask Mr. Secretary of State to declare on behalf of the Government the proposed amendment. Here you go, Mr. Miss.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51153	Amendment No. 10 is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the production of project documentation on, for the road... It's a trap. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Vidones... It's frogs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the said stock is not a national road, therefore it is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51154	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Bozo Petrov, here you are, an observation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51155	Dearlywed, we asked that the possibility be given to build project documentation of the Vidonje-Vukov Klanac road which would also be a road for the Schengen border. I didn't know you had anything to do with it. Even with Schengen, it doesn't matter what the county does to that? Okay. Secondly, I have witnessed these last 8 years in abnormal ways how the state government has jumped to county level, local level, private market, so that now your explanation of how you do not have anything to do with it, it's county. And the most common explanation, not you, but anyone who came here today for the pay phone is, we have nothing to do with it, it's someone else there. And I'll tell you again, you're the ones who take money out of every pay for your government register and you have genius ways of getting you to move the money elsewhere. That's what the Croatian public has seen in these years. Well, here, make up a brilliant way. You're naturally talented and you deliver money to the county to build this road. Because if we want to develop our Croatia evenly, then that means villages. And behind, it doesn't just mean Zagreb, it doesn't mean just the coast. The Vidonje-Vukov Klanac road is a village in the back where people went because they have no conditions. I invite you to come up with a brilliant way. It doesn't have to be genius, it can be simple. You're talented and deliver a million-and-a-half kuna to the county for this road.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51156	Thank you very much. Let's move on. [[Agreement: People will commend you.]] The next amendment is that representative of Mira Bulja, on behalf of the motionor, on behalf of the Government, that Mr. Secretary of State be manifested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51157	Amendment No. 11 unacceptable. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the state road D33 leading from Sibenik, highway A1 via Drniš to Knin, the state road D33 from Sibenik to Drniš was reconstructed by previously implemented projects, and reconstruction from Drniš to Knin was in the design phase.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51158	Thank you very much. Since the esteemed representative of Bulj is not present, the amendment will be declared by the vote tomorrow. Amendment number 12 of the same representative. I ask the Government's representative to be made aware of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51159	Amendment 12 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the state road D220 Trilj – Kamensko. There is an environmental impact study to build a new direction. moved D220 Ćoporice – Velici. The 1st session of the Committee was held. Project documentation for the reconstruction of the state road D220 shares from Velić to... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51160	Thank you very much. Also on this amendment, the Croatian Parliament will vote tomorrow, since the applicant's representative is missing, so it cannot state its position on your reasoning or refusal. Next amendment number 13 of the same proposing representative Miro Bulj. Please be clear on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51161	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of foot-and-mouth disease in the Sinja area along the D219 state road in Glavica Gornja. In cooperation with the Croatian roads, Sinj ordered the construction of a project documentation for the construction of a footing with D212, which is expected to close the location permit, while for D219 Privija - Han, a project documentation has already been developed and public procurement is expected to start in the next investment cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51162	Thank you. The same rule for this amendment. Since the applicant cannot say whether the amendment is withdrawing or requesting a vote. In that case, the vote shall be held. Amendment number 14 Proposer Miro Bulj. Please read on behalf of the Government about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51163	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of the Privija stock – Han. In cooperation with the Croatian roads, Sinj ordered the construction of a project documentation for the construction of a foot-footing with D212, which is expected to be near-run, while for D219 Privija – Han, a project documentation has already been developed and public procurement is expected to start in the next investment cycle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51164	Thank you very much. There's no proposer. We'll vote on the amendment tomorrow. Amendment number 15 Proposer Miro Bulj. Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51165	The amendment is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of documentation projects and the implementation of a circular flow at the D1 merger with Put Pazara Street in Sinj. Works for reconstruction of state road DC1 and local road LC67041 are agreed. Due to the tourist season and the organization of Sinjska Alka when the streets of the Alkar racetrack are closed, close to the beginning of the works are planned for the beginning of September.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51166	Thank you very much. I also agree that this amendment 15 is to be voted on tomorrow, given the non-presence of the motionary. Amendment number 16 to MP Miro Bulj. Please, in the name of the government, showcase.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51167	The amendment is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of project documentation and the start of underpass construction on the state road D1 in Sinj, Vukovar Street. The Croatian roads and the City of Sinj signed a principle agreement on activities to improve the flow and level of traffic services on state and other roads in the City of Sinj, and especially on the most opposite part of the state road D1 in the centre of Sinj. Further activities under the agreement are expected to be carried out in the area of the City of Sin. making the City of Sin. Schoolly to meet the commitments made by the City of Sinja Croatian Roads are ready to take further steps in terms of designing a walking corridor near the existing rotor and other important procedures, which are along with the design and reconstruction of the crossing of Jakino Guvno in the immediate vicinity of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51168	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. There's no proposer. The amendment will be declared by the Croatian Parliament tomorrow. Amendment 17 Proposer Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51169	The amendment is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funding for the construction of a bus station in Rijeka. However, it is not stated in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51170	Thank you very much. The amendment will also be held tomorrow's vote as counterpart Miletic is not in the assembly. Amendment number 18 proposes a respected representative of Ante Kujundzic. Please give an indication of the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51171	Amendment number 18 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the rehabilitation of the Omis Bridge. Croatian roads conducted a specialist review of the Omis Bridge, which established the state of the building. Project documentation for the rehabilitation of the Omis Bridge is under way. At the end of the same process, recovery works will be planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51172	Thank you very much. Here you are, Your Honor, Mr. Kujundzic, to be able to show yourself, express your position on what the government's representative has told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51173	Thank you, Chairman. Well, come on, I'm glad you're on your way to making project documentation. I just hope it doesn't last four or five more years now, and then again from the beginning, as in the earlier amendments, of course I have stated. In addition to that bridge in Omis, it's about the D8 section, so a kind of breadth that's long since stopped knocking. Because it certainly can't meet all the real needs that summer mainly due to the tourist season, so anyone who travels that section from Split needs maltenes about as often as a part-time contract, so 4 hours of traffic for one share that's not more than 50 km. So, I'd like you to take a seriously one solution to the omis bypass that would definitely bring life itself back to Omis and the omisic hinterland, and thus achieve one added value of the city itself and the entire cultural significance it has as such. I'm not asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51174	Then I find the amendment no. 18 withdrawn. Thank you very much. We're moving on. Amendment No. 19 of the same proposing, MP Ante Kujundzic, to hear the government's position on the proposed amendment, pardon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51175	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of project documentation and the construction of a fast road connection between Zagvozd-Vinjani Donji. Croatian roads have opened a tender for the development of an idea solution and an environmental impact study and idea projects with the establishment of a location permit for the planned DC Zagvozd-Imotski. The design is ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51176	... Nice. [[Specially enabled.]] Representative Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51177	Thank you. So, I purposely set up and handed over two related amendments, and your argument is essentially identical even though the amendments were different in one section of the access road, and this one concerns the road itself. Your argument is identical, which, of course, tells me quite a lot. So I'm going to point out again, in 2023, it's approaching, that's the year in which our Prime Minister promised that this highway as such should be finished. You say you're in design documentation, so, good old practice of this government, it'll last until 2022, then it'll clear and break the deadline, but here, we'll give it to 2025, if God will, here, until then, make it and everything will be all right. Otherwise, the region has earned much more objectively since the standard electoral body of the HDZ is, however, why would you invest when you have safe voters in that part, but they'll probably get away with it, so they'll understand certain things, and then they'll breathe full lungs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51178	You're asking to vote on this amendment? Okay, we'll vote tomorrow. [[Intruder: Absolutely.]] Next amendment, the same proposaler, Honored Representative Ante Kujundzic, Amendment No. 20. In the name of the Government, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Gossipić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51179	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of rotors and transport infrastructure on the road D76, D60 in Grubins. The project is under way, an idea solution has been made to build a rotor in Grubins based on the conclusion that an object needs to be torn down. After resolving property-legal relations, it will begin with the construction and construction of project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51180	Thank you very much. Please show your respects to MP Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51181	Thank you. So all of this has been said and this is not directly your concern and is not addressed to you ad-hominem, so it is not you who would have the keys to solving these problems, however, you say that it is in the process of making project documentation. By chance, I was the head of this municipality where this cross was mentioned, and I heard the same story in 2018. Now in 2021, so for three years, we may even have gone back one step. I don't know if you know what kind of crossover this is, so right now, the only route from the Makarska coast is to the West of Herzegovina, the mentioned residential facility has been a problem for many years, and I don't understand for which reason it hasn't been bought, destroyed, the owner is damaged, and I don't understand for what reason, so, in that place, it's long since there's been this rotor. I will request a vote under this amendment, and I will keep an eye on this project documentation. If you had a chance to answer me, then I'd ask you when you're ignoring the completion of the project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51182	Thank you very much. There is no state secretary's opportunity to respond, but it will grant HS your request to vote on the amendment tomorrow. We're moving on. Amendment No. 21, Proposer Honorary Representative Marin Miletic, please, Secretary of State, Government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51183	Amendment 21 is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of part of the state road DC105 from Snuga to Misnjak. Croatian roads lead to the construction of the project documentation of the state road DC105 on the stock from Snuga to Podarnica on the island of Rab 8 km long. The investment project is conducted in accordance with the Agreement of the Croatian Roads and the City of Rab. The design and implementation of the administrative procedure takes place in cooperation with the town of Rab. The conduct of a local permit has been stalled for a party not staying in the Republic of Croatia for a longer time, but the problem has been successfully resolved and the location permit will soon be completed. During 2021, the plan addresses property legal relations and, depending on the course of the same, the submission of requests for a construction permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51184	Thank you very much. The government does not accept the amendment, the applicant is not present, so the same vote will be held tomorrow. Next Amendment No. 22, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please stand by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51185	Amendment No. 22 unacceptable. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the restoration of the Obrovac-Krushevo road stock. The Croatian road company Obrovac-Kruševo maintains through a regular maintenance programme and the listed section is safe for traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51186	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, honourable representative Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51187	Thank the chairman, therefore regular maintenance, for the other colleagues to understand in practice, means patching. The patching of a certain hole or the recovery of a certain stone that went down. So this amendment proposes to provide funds for the restoration of the section of the Obrovac-Krushevo road. It's about a renovation of a total of about 2500 m of roads, for which it is especially to provide about 500 thousand kuna in the state budget. That stock for long-term non-maintainment, and you have mentioned regularly that it is being maintained, has been devastated and poses a kind of threat to property and, of course, to the very people who traffic that share. In addition to the rocks and the ground, it is also about damage to the stakes and support walls of the road itself. This section is further a special challenge when smoking heavy storms or during rainy weather. The mudslides are actually one form, we could say, constant phenomena, and the stakes are just not safe for traffic. When a strong wind closes the highway, it becomes the only communication direction that connects Lika and Dalmatia. Because of the strong storm strikes and the stock itself is sometimes closed, and that decision is particularly contributed to the situation in which the road itself is located. In order not to extend this amendment to you, I will request a vote, but here I encourage you to at least keep that regular maintenance as what it is in its own title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51188	Thank you. They'll vote on your amendment tomorrow. The following amendment is amended as follows: 23, Proposer Miro Bulj, please note the government's position on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51189	Amendment No. 23 is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the state road D-1 on the move from Sinj to Vrlika. There are also activities under several shares of the state road D-1 between Vrlika and Sinj. The reconstruction works are under way through the Vrlika length of 0.7 km and the work on the recovery of unstable cuts on the Vrlika-Satriæ stock 7 km long in 11 positions. The purchase plan provides for the negotiation of works and the extraordinary maintenance of the asphalt stake, under the section of Maljkovo-Peruč in length of 6.3 km.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51190	Thank you very much. The promoter is not with us today, so we will vote on this amendment tomorrow. The following amendment is amended as follows: 24th of the same proposal by MP Mira Bulja, please be clear on behalf of the government, whether or not you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51191	Amendment 24 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the continuation of the construction of the footing on the state road D-219 through the settlement Radosici and the road road Put Pavić. The design includes a complete reconstruction of Put Pavić Street, and a request for a local permit will soon be submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51192	Thank you very much. We will also vote on this amendment tomorrow because the promoter is not here. Amendment No. 25th Representative Miro Bulj, please state secretary for the government's statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51193	Amendment 25 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the D-1 state road on the move from Dicma to Sinj. Croatian roads have agreed and the creation of an idea solution is under way and new environmental impact studies are under way for the Dicma bypass. Bringing spatial planning documentation to the Split-Dalmatia County will continue further during the project's activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51194	Thank you very much. Next Amendment No. 26, the promoter is also a representative of Miro Bulj, it is an indication of the government, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51195	The amendment is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the road and foot-and-mouth in the Sinja area of D-1 Karakasica-Jasensko-Citluk. Croatian roads have over the past period restored the asphalt stake on the state road DC-1 on the mentioned section. There is a continuous one-sided hiking trail from 62km to 300th from also the 62nd to 600th that connects already built footsteps from the municipality of Croatia to the town of Sinj, which is envisaged by the construction plan for the purchase of Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51196	Thank you very much. The government doesn't accept the amendment, the novice is gone, it will be voted on tomorrow. Next Amendment No. 27, Proposer of the same, Representative Miro Bulj, please make a nice statement on the proposed amendment on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51197	Amendment 27 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction and expansion of dangerous bandaged road sections through the settlement of Lucani na D-1 to Radosic. That stock is not part of the network of national roads and is therefore not in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51198	Thank you very much. We also declare this amendment by voting tomorrow. Amendment No. 28, Proposer of the same, distinguished representative Miro Bulj, please make a nice statement to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51199	The amendment is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the county road in the Muć municipality, from Muć to Velov, but the said stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51200	Thank you very much. And this amendment, given that there are no colleagues, Bulja will be declared HS, manifested and declared by tomorrow's vote. The following amendment is amended as follows: 29th, Proposer the same, distinguished representative Miro Bulj, here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51201	Amendment 29 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the Cetina River bridge in Obrovac Sinjski. The Croatian roads will conduct a specialist examination of the bridge on the state road D-219 in Obrovac Sinjski with the construction of a project task by reconstruction of the bridge in collaboration with the Conservatory Institute, as the bridge is listed under conservation protection. On the bridge itself, in accordance with the rules of law, regular retrieval measures have been applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51202	Since the government does not accept the proposed amendment, and colleagues of Bulja will not be shown if they withdraw it or demand a vote, the vote will be held tomorrow. Next Amendment No. 30, the promoter is the same, Your Honor, Representative Miro Bulj, please, on behalf of the Government Secretary of State, Your Appreciation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51203	Amendment No. 30, it's not accepted either. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the construction of foot-and-mouth disease on the state road D-56 through the Muc municipality. During 2021. The construction works of the footing on D-56 through Donji Muć have been completed. And in line with the financial resources available, further construction of foot-and-mouth disease in the Municipality of Muć will continue to ensure the safety of all road users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51204	Thank you very much. This amendment will also be voted on tomorrow. Amendment No. 31, Proposer of the same, Representative Miro Bulj, please show on behalf of the government whether or not you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51205	Amendment 31 is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for reconstruction and expansion in dangerous corners of shares through the settlement of Lucani from D1 to Radosic, however, the said stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51206	Thank you. Since the promoter cannot be shown at this time, we will vote on the same amendment tomorrow. Amendment No. 32, Proposer of Representative Miro Bulj, Prime Minister's Apparition, elect State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51207	Amendment 32 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the purchase of land and the construction of road and parking from D1 to the cemetery of St. Peter in the area of the city of Sinj. That stock is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51208	Thank you very much. We must vote on this amendment tomorrow because of the not being present. Amendment No. 33, the promoter is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for an indication of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51209	Amendment 33 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the section of the D2 Vukovar-Ilock road. Project documentation was made, construction permit was issued for the reconstruction of Vukovar-Opatovac stock length 13.3 km. The performance of the work will be divided into 4 stages. In the supply plan for '21. It's a three-phase contract. It's four miles long.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51210	Thank you very much. And this amendment, HS, will have to be shown tomorrow by the vote due to the non-presence of the motionary. And, I think, the last amendment to the Croatian road is Amendment No. 34, Representative Mira Bulj, please be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51211	Amendment 34 is also not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of Sinj-Troglav-Otok's county road. That stock is a county road, therefore not in the jurisdiction of Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51212	Thank you very much. On this amendment too, HS will vote tomorrow. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We are now moving forward with the amendments to the amendment to the amendment and addition of the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency for 2021 and the projection of the 2022 and 2023 plans. On behalf of the Government on Amendments, State Secretary Mile Horvat will be manifested and we will be starting with the First Honored Representative of Mira Bulja. In the name of the government, please be clear, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51213	Thank you. Amendment No. 1 MP Mira Bulja The government does not accept. The amendment therefore proposes to provide funds for the recovery of the Slana Stine mining mine located in Suhač and Karakasica, however, the recovery of the miners is not within the competence of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51214	Thank you very much. Since there is no proposal, he cannot say his position on your reasoning, or not to accept the amendment, and the same vote will take place tomorrow. 2nd Amendment, the Honorable Representative of Mira Bulja, please show the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51215	Amendment No. 2 is not accepted. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the recovery and continuation of the construction of the sortery and compost at the Mojenko dump in the Sinj area. The purchase of separate collection tanks for municipal waste is an EU project co-financed by 85% of the grants, involving 407 units of local self-government, the project is in the final phase of realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51216	Thank you very much. There is no proposer, so we will vote on this amendment tomorrow. Amendment No. Three, MPs of Mira Bulja, and that's the last amendment. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51217	Amendment No. 3 The government does not accept. The amendment proposes to provide funds for the recovery of landfills of so-called waste. "Black Hill" in the Zadar hinterland near the village of Biljana Donja. In accordance with the commitments and the project implementation plan for 2021, waste disposal recoverys were planned in accordance with the item.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51218	Thank you very much. Since there is no proposal, this amendment is being voted on tomorrow by HS. Thank you very much, Secretary of State, thank you to all your colleagues and colleagues who have participated in the interpretation of the amendments. Now let's get back to work. We have another proposal for a conclusion, which is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives and proposed to HS to adopt the following Conclusion: It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend the reporting methodology in the documents of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the Proposal for amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia in such a way that, with the proposal of the State Budget, the amendment and the amendment of the State Budget to the Parliament in the same table review, not only delivers a real and valid budget as a result in the meantime of redistributions, which are in the power of the Minister of Finance according to Article. 46 Budget law, as well as the voted Budget for the previous year, or the voted Budget for the current year. Also, all table reviews by the Government should be delivered in a digital search format. On the implementation of this conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will report HS within 90 days of the date of adoption of the Conclusion. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the proposed conclusion submitted by the Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Zdravko Zrinasic will appear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51219	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President of HS. In view of the proposed conclusion, the Government declares that the conclusion is not accepted, and as regards transparency, the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports such activities and initiatives and continuously implements measures aimed at increasing the transparency of the State budget and associated budget documents, which is also one of the basic principles laid down in the Budget Act. In the previous period, the methodology of reporting on those documents, as well as the frequency of publication of data, has been improved, with an emphasis on greater transparency and clarity of budgetary data. In view of the need for further normative improvements to the State Budget Act, which has, by the way, been developed in this form since 2008 to two amendments in '12. And '15. and other initiatives, such as this Green-Left Block Club, in the plan for the legislative activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for this year, are envisaged to produce a brand new Budget Law and its reference to the HS. In addition, the law plans to introduce further improvements with a view to increasing transparency of all budgetary documents, including the reporting methodology, with a view to ensuring greater clarity of budgetary data and their availability in the digitalised format.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51220	Thank you very much. Would you like to show yourself on behalf of the promoter of the conclusion on what the government has said? Here you go, dear representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51221	Thank you, ma'am. Vice President of the Assembly. I mean Mr. Zrinasic, don't take this personally, I know that you are sent here to die thinking, but under the supposed signs of course, but look, we asked the government to send us a budget in the Excel table more or less, so where you simply see what we adopted, what you've redistributed and what you suggest, it's not science fiction. So we don't need new laws, so all of what you said we don't need it, we just asked Excel for a table in which we have a nice and clearly visible 3 columns. It's not inconclusive, it's, I mean more like, I know that, that the government has it. I mean look, you refuse to conclude or refuse something we asked you to, not you, the government, and as we're not for it, we're not going to send you an Excel plate of 3 columns, but we're full of transparency, it's important to us, we have a bunch of laws that we're going to make everything more transparent, but I mean "Hic Rhodus, hit salta!" means Excel plate of 3 columns, we didn't ask for more than that. So Excel plate with nice and clearly visible 3 columns. I mean, it's stupid, it's awful stupid, and then you're in a stupid situation that you have to come up for that parliamentary pay phone, okay, there's not much of us, but I mean, I, I, I refuse to believe that what you read is okay with you, I mean it doesn't matter, we're not going to personalize the story, but it's endlessly stupid. So it's infinitely stupid that the government is unable to send an Excel plate or that the problem is to send the government an Excel plate with 3 columns. I mean, it's absurd to be endless, and that's what we're asking for to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u51222	And without you asking about this, you'd vote on it. Thank you, Secretary of State, thank you, Mr. Glavasevic. So on this proposal, the Green-Left bloc Club's conclusion will be voted tomorrow by HS. This concludes today's agenda item Declaration on amendments to the proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. and projection for 2022 and 2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52373	Thank you very much. We'll vote tomorrow. We are now going to declare amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the provision of services in tourism, second reading, P.Z. No. 117, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Katica Glamze and the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. On behalf of the promoter, a respected State Secretary at the tourism and sports ministry, Sandra Herman, will be shown. Here you go. We're going with the first amendment of representative Katica Glamuzine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52374	...collectarians. This amendment is not accepted for the very reason why we have launched these amendments and additions to the laws which we want to reduce the fragmentation of the special part of the expert examination for tourist guides and after the discussion in the Croatian Parliament and the proposal of representatives and the Committee on Tourism, by the final proposal for amendments and addition of the law, it is proposed that a special part of the expert examination for tourist guides be passed in the regions instead. However, the precise definition of the region requires an expert analysis and will be detailed in the future new rules on the expert examination for tourist guides and the rules on the list of protected units and localities which are subject to the work of the working group. And I must mention that the working group is composed of all relevant factors from representatives of Croatian tourist guides, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the Croatian Defence Ministry, experts in European law and lecturers from higher universities for tourism. For this reason, the amendment to include the regions in particular is that the numbers cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52375	Here you go, colleagues of Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52376	Thank you. It's been professionally assessed by the guides themselves who are probably the most relevant in the whole story. It has also been expertly assessed by parliamentary representatives, who all including HDZ colleagues suggested that there should be exactly these five regions. I'm not happy with your explanation, and I'm going to ask for this vote at the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52377	Thank you. We're going to Amendment number two of the same MPs, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52378	Amendment number two cannot be accepted for the reason that the amendment's proposal is, in fact, the harmonisation of the law with the provision proposed in the amendment one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52379	Here's an indication of that amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52380	... the same remark on my part with just one little supplement that might be a good thought, I know it's too late now, but this isn't even in line by your text, if the county's already moving, then it should be replaced with the regions, even if you won't fully define them. I'd also like to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52381	Okay, and the third amendment again is the same representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52382	The 3rd amendment, therefore, is the same, the proposal for the text of the amendments is actually again in line with the amendment No. The one we turned down, for that reason, is rejected. The regions are certainly listed, just not at this point, as suggested, just as the tourist guides will decide on the working group on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52383	Again with the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52384	Thank you. This is the only time I'm going to point out that this task force has been working for quite a long time, and there hasn't been a concrete solution, I'm going to ask you to vote on this, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52385	This is a new task force.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52386	Okay, we'll vote on that, too. We are now going to the Amendments of the Center and Voice Representatives Club. First amendment, here's an explanation of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52387	Well, actually, the amendments are the same, identical to the amendments that have already been submitted by parliamentary deputies, so the same explanation is true. Therefore, due to the precise definition of the region that requires expert analysis, we will not state them in the law but will define them precisely by the rules, which is why the amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52388	So the amendment, all three?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52389	All three are the same, and 2nd and 3rd, the same argument, the proposal for the text of the amendment again depends on the harmonisation of the law with the provision proposed in the first amendment, so that both the second and third ones are rejected on the same principle, ie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52390	Thank you very much. I don't see any MPs or representatives from the Club of Centres and GLAS, so they don't even have the ability to speak, but we're going to have to vote on all these three amendments. I thank the secretary of state. Good morning, esteemed MPs and respected MPs. Before we start with a statement on amendments just one more notice, so other than the two points announced today, we're going to have another point that's the choice, appointments and resolutions we have to formally implement in order to vote tomorrow, it's going to be at the end. We are now going with a statement on amendments, first we will go with a statement on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Islands, second reading, P.Z. No. 87, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. I would now ask that on behalf of the proposer's representative, a respected state secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds is being shown, Memorial Đuric. Here you go. We only have one amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52524	That's a nice hello, everybody. Dear and esteemed representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted, given that it is an article. 26. The law on islands that has been amended shall apply. Nine. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Island Act in a way that is fully aligned with the provisions of the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Development Management of the Republic of Croatia so that the contents of the island development plans become part of the system of strategic planning acts that form public policies in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it shall take effect on the date of entry into force of this Agreement. Nine. The final draft law stipulates that all coastal island units of regional self-government in the development plan of their unit of regional self-government include a mandatory and island development plan. Therefore, the content of the island development plan becomes thus a mandatory part of the content and development plan of the coastal island unit of the regional self-government which it brings back in accordance with Article. 23. The strategic planning and management law of the development of the Republic of Croatia according to which the development plan for each unit is a regional self-government medium-term act of strategic planning of importance for that unit, which sets out specific objectives for the implementation of the strategic objectives of long-term strategic planning actions, cannot be contrary to national plans nor to the National Plan for the development of the island. Therefore, the coastal island units of the area or regional self-government should certainly be taken into account in the content of the island development plan, taking into account the specificities of all individual islands in their territory and defining their specific needs arising from these specificities. Finally, proposed change without Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52525	I guess my colleague Glavasevic, a well-known islander,... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52526	Thank you, Mr. President. We believe that we have given a quality amendment, and we think that our proposal to restore the obligation to develop separate island development plans that must be based on the National Plan for the Development of the Island as a roof document that defines the objectives and measures of the island's development, while at the same time being the basis of the financing of projects and programmes on each individual island in order to respect the island's specificities and we would ask this to be discussed on this vote amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-17-0.u52527	Thank you very much. We'll vote tomorrow. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose the first addition of the 7th session agenda with 6 new points. These are: - The report on the work of the Committee on Fiscal Policy for 2020. - HBOR's annual financial report for 2020. - Report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2020 - Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia - Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Deputy Advocate General; and - Proposal for a Conclusion on the Obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be in charge of the State Statistics Office to quarterlyally obtain the calculation of minimum cost of life in the Republic of Croatia. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of Written Objections at the proposed items of the draft agenda have not been amended, i.e. all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 7th session.
