ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u42749	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS]] In accordance with Article 226(2), Rules of Procedure, first I'm going to propose an addition to the 7th session agenda with 6 new points. I'm not going to read them because the supplementation was delivered by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 7th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u42784	And now, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the honourable representative of Ante Prkacin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u42785	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Is this on, can you hear me? Here I am the second time I've spoken in this free speech past the plan. And first I have to apologize and thank my colleague Dretar, he had something very important to say and I asked him, seeing Mr. Pupovac I expected that he would take a share in this free speech because the two of us had started a very important topic. The Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia is an extremely important topic, not only in Croatia but also around. So I said some very difficult attitudes and qualifications. I said it was a criminal institution, I said that in the last 100 years. Croatia did not have such a persistent and insidious enemy as SPC. I'm going to illustrate this because Mr. Pupovac is gone, and I'm going to illustrate it with only two examples, or two examples from one document, from the Valerian Memorial, which I was talking about here with something once. In that memo, Valerian said they were in '41. Croatian Ustashas entered Lapac and killed 3,000 Serbs in one day, so that the Serbs were no longer left, the '48 census. in Lapca 10.099 Serbs. They write the same thing about Clay, in Gina, Croatian soldiers and Ustashas and natives, who didn't, killed all Serbs that none of them were alive, the '48 list. More than 22,000 Serbs. I've known Mr. Pupovec for 30 years. And I think about him well. We've been on the verge of friendship, I don't want to turn it into enmity, I want to open an argument on that subject. Since we can't find each other here, I'm gonna schedule a press conference that I invite Mr. Pupovac to, and I'd like to take Porphyri and that paratrooper, as it is called, John, because John is very educated, so maybe some of the coalition partners, it would be even more convenient, so we can finally solve this problem. I'm not giving up until we get there. Here's my thank God, colleague Rasudic. I've stayed to praise him. This first speech on the subject "No paper" which is not amateur on the Croatian side. And so far, even though I've listened to better speeches about BiH than you, probably because of what was 10-15 minutes, so you could cover everything together. However, if I heard Minister Grlic Radman say about this, "We are in favour of the stability and territorial integrity of neighbouring BiH, the country is equal to 3 peoples and the others who live...", etc., so that the state would not be "Noon paper". And if he is a fictional state in BiH he is such that, soon, the official document of such content will come because I told this speaker that BiH, myself who, who I was willing to die for that BiH and leading Bosniaks and beat with half of HS MPs defending Bosnia and defending the Bosniaks. But I also said that this BiH policy has no chance, no perspective, no sense. Wise Haris Silajdzic warned 15 years ago. Bosniaks, but they do not listen to those smart people, he said "do not leave Komsic, leave the possibility of selecting a representative for the Croats because BiH will disgust the Croats". Now, my dear Harry, I was good with that man, how you were an evil prophet. BiH began to disgust me after Zeljko Komsic. This video is orbiting, to look only at the peaceful voice of the dignified, smart Haris Silajdzic and then some semi-articulated speech, is it, is it from the animal or bird world or is it, or is it, or is it the speech of a cableman from Bashcharshia, whatever it is you're saying to me, etc. Well, gentlemen of the Muslims, if you have chosen a representative for the Croats, so give us that Konaković he is a Muslim, but it doesn't matter, give him a little ruffle, the boy is this tall, stasit who speaks and thinks, so they don't have to be two meters, he can be the one, Jaferovic, who speaks completely contrary to our views and is nothing higher than Komsic, but he is a man. You see a face in it, you see a phenomenon, you see a physionomy. Well, you disgusted our BiH for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u42786	Thank you. Here, we're done with today's work. We will resume our work on Wednesday 28 April at 9:30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain, so I wish you a pleasant weekend. Session interrupted at 13.23 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.03 HOURS]] We will now proceed with the work, namely the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, and the first on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative of Domagoj Prica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u43142	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. One of the biggest problems today in Croatia is certainly the lack of room in homes for older and powerless people. When the data is united, there are some 17,000 home users in Croatia who are located in state-decentralised, private and family homes. The waiting lists to enter the nursing home are estimated at more than 10, some more than 10 years. We can conclude that perhaps some people who apply for a place in the home never welcome it. There are private homes and family homes, but we can see that there is still no sufficient number of needed places. Private initiative often solves the problem through supply and demand, and it would be logical that there is a need for more places in homes for older people, that the private sector builds more homes and employs people in them. It's obviously not like that. The question is why. Let's look at the prices in the state-decentralised home for the elderly, the accommodation ranges from 1600 to 4000 kuna and depends on more factors. For example, the price of the room depends on whether the room is single, double, triple, service quality, etc. Private homes can cost between 6,000 and more. Then why doesn't the private sector build homes for the elderly anymore to keep the citizens in them? The answer is simple. Retired people can't afford that. If we return to the HDZ and Franjo Tudjman authorities in the 1990s, one third of all jobs in Croatia have been lost, and unemployment has risen sharply. Objectively, unemployment was supposed to be far higher, but it was settled by sending people into retirement. In just 10 years, the number of pensioners tripled and crossed the number of millions. As the number of pensioners increased, pensions were less, at a level that could be freely called social aid. Our pensioners became almost a social category because the average pension is around 2500 kuna, while most of the pensions are lower than that amount, which is sad and devastating for our country. If we go back to the price of accommodation in private homes that is 6000 kuna or more, the question is, how will someone with a pension pay, for example, 2500 kuna? The answer is he won't be able to. There are cases that a family can help pay for a private home, but it is still with a minority of people. The situation at home is different because they are cheaper so the average pension may be enough to pay for accommodation or the family can pay a few hundred kuna for home to their parents in a state home, but since the price of private homes is far higher than the average pension, the vast majority cannot afford it. Finally, we see that the private sector cannot resolve the issue of homes for older and powerless people. So, the solution to this problem remains in the state. She's responsible that pensions are low that people can't pay for a man of age's worth. That is why it is important for the state to start building older homes to a greater extent and to provide a place to stay and care for our pensioners. It is also possible to redesign existing buildings owned by a state or local authorities that are currently not used, in homes for the elderly. The problem is also lack of labour, nurse and nurse, nurses and other staff. Unfortunately, many have left Croatia for low wages. That is why it is important to reduce income tax and other taxes to raise the standard of all citizens, including those working in the care sector for older people. In addition, it is important to implement retraining programmes in order to train as many people as possible to work in this segment of the economy. It is particularly important that home inspection work for older and powerless persons in order to ensure the quality of such institutions for the benefit of users. Part of care and care for older people well solves the project of the geronto housewife where the government employs people who go to houses and apartment citizens and assists them in home affairs, but it solves only part of the problem. Long waiting lists for homes can only be solved by building new capacities for our elderly. Let's just start with the fact that more than 800,000 people in Croatia are over 65 years old, and as time goes by, that number grows and a lot of them are getting harder and harder to take care of themselves. When we look at statistics, we need to know that in Croatia we have 200 beds on 100,000 inhabitants, while in the Czech Republic 700, Slovenia 900, and in Sweden 1300. So the capacity of homes for older people in Slovenia is 4 times higher, and in Sweden 6 times higher than in Croatia. Let us not forget that pensioners are the ones who built our land and created the foundations for what we have. It is now time for society and the state to do everything possible to enable them to live a decent life in their old age.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u43143	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Ivanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u43235	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I thank you for stopping after the vote. Here in this free speech I want to talk about a topic that has been very current there since June and July of last year and it's about Osijek's milkmaker. Osijek's dairy was founded back in 1949 with the help of the UNICEF International Association as part of a agricultural combination that we all called IPK. In time, Osijek’s milkmaker became a well - known brand in our premises. In 2005, the company was fully taken over by a Germany-based Meggle Group, a high-level business, and at that time the milk mill was the only milkman in Croatia certified to export its products to the EU market. Unfortunately, in July 2020, the Maggle Group's business policy decided to stop production in Osijek and 200 jobs, over 270 co-operatives serving the Megle milk group were questioned. And now we come up with that important piece of work when essentially we as a policy, as politicians not only declare the economy as the headstone of Croatia's development but also get involved in solving this problem, so let me say that the mayor of Osijek-Baranja is also in the area of the county of which the Maggle Group is located, has been actively involved in solving this problem, Ms. Resore Minister. Also, the prime minister of RH Mr. A. Plenkovic was heading towards finding a new strategic partner who would take over Osijek's milkmaker and continue to produce not only the products of Osijek's dairy but also all the co-operatives who served Osijek's dairy company, and this just happened a few months ago, Belje plus as part of Fortan's group took over the business of Osijek's dairy company. Today, we have 228 employees, which in Osijek, which in Beli Manastir, means all jobs are preserved and of 270 co-operatives who were those who served milk in Osijek milk, 249 of them remain in the function of this brand when it comes to the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, respectively, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I think that Forten's group, or Belje plus, in addition to taking over the business of Osijek's dairy and with an additional 10m euros, will encourage the creation of new brands of this dairy industry and thus give opportunity to all those who want to deal with dairy that they will have a partner in them or that they will be able to establish a cooperative relationship. With the support of the above, something that was larger and written off is preserved, it is very, very important, so here I would like to point out and thank, of course, to all those who participated in the realization of this problem, that this is the best way, that it is the only right way to save jobs, where investors can be brought to the Republic of Croatia, it means a lot to us in Slavonia, because 220 jobs are for our end for sure a lot. So here I think this is a good way to talk and that the Croatian public knows that there are always solutions only the question of how far we are willing to go in search of these solutions. So here are the thanks to all the players, and of course I want successful work, and for our cooperatives that they will have a partner who will comply with all those contractual obligations when it comes to corporate relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u43236	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that Mosta in the name of which the respected representative Nino Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u43336	Thank you. The Bauk is orbiting Southeast Europe. Not our Arsen Bauk, but the bauk non paper. The word is an informal document that in diplomatic practice, such documents serve to be touched, there are no memos, there are no stamps, there are no signatures, in this case no one knows who wrote it, for whom, with which purpose neither when nor where or where now with it. The strange roads whose longest trail leads through a Slovenian portal are uncensored and all the way to a Macedonian one, the non-paper that appears to have come from nowhere is sewn together by Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa. So all of a sudden Jansa is saying what other people don't dare say, which is that crossing the borders like they're about to follow the lines of war demarcation that are ethnic lines or national on the ground, that this is the best solution and the way towards final stability in Southeast Europe. So, the division of BiH, but also other countries. Let's branch out the way they did in Western Europe and peaceful Bosnia long ago. But is that right? If the document is not more authentic if it is not created in the political summit of Slovenia, it is in some intelligence kitchen or it is the work of a gifted individual from the people as the school explains the emergence of folk poetry, so if the nepire is not authentic, it is very authentic. And they show how Croats, Serbs and Bosniaks live in three parallel realities or three separate worlds, which in part supports the thesis of non-papers. The Serbian side from Vukic to Dodik reacts positively, calls for a peaceful disunity, is guided by logic if something cannot survive in any other way than external pressure should neither exist nor even more concrete state, which for its own existence in the long term cannot ensure the consensus of most of its citizens or most of its constituents if it is complex or not necessary. Or as the seydal girl says, there is no.../incomprehensible/... The Serbs would part, but they stand out peacefully, peacefully. The problem of the Serbian position, however, is that they would follow a line of war distinctions in BiH and ethnic lines but would not, for example, Kosovo. The Bosniak top point is Bahir Izetbegovic threatens war. And before they tried to check what it was about, whether the document was authentic, whether Slovenia had anything to do with it, Jansa in particular, certain Bosniak circles organised threatening protests Sunday before the Slovenian Embassy. So they intimidate anyone who touches BiH's integrity even if it's neither guilty nor due as Jansa and Slovenians seem. But these are exactly the ones that destroy and undermine the Dayton foundations of BiH itself. Croatian reactions either do not have any famous silence or some quiet vague whisper. Media mostly with us speculating who's behind it. Some say Serbian jobs, memo 2 etc., others say, that this was released from the Bosniak intelligence mile in order to minimate Croatian non-paper and attempt to constructively address the issue of the electoral law, but also enables European BiH. The reactions did not subside after Janez Jansa officially informed the BiH presidency that there was no non-paper and had nothing to do with it. At the end of the line, it is completely irrelevant who put it together and who attached it to Janša, his political opponents in Slovenia, or it turned out to be an accident. Non-paper turned out to be a good lacmus paper like that snow that doesn't fall to cover the hill, but to leave every beast a mark. We've seen a lot of clues on the basis of the famous non-paper, and we need to map them again. You can see exactly what politics are like in the Croatian environment and what we need to take care of. Just before the non-paper circled, our minister, Grlic Radman, visited BiH for two days before meeting with some political officials, met with Cardinal Puljic and head of the Islamic community in BiH Hussein Kavazovic on the first day. Why is the foreign minister of one country visiting another who is not theocracy first meeting with religious leaders? It's like we're in the time of Andric's Travnik chronicle, so consul Devil first meets with a big vizier, it's an EU representative, and then with a priest, a friar and a hodge. The Croats in BiH are a constitutive people, a political people, a nation as you will, not a mere religious community in the Ottoman Milet system. Grlic Radman was wonderful with the cardinal on hot water, about the godless support of the Croats in BiH who always remains declarative or at the level of shy non-paper while his predecessor, Pejcinović Buric, began to advocate the abolition of the BiH constitutionality of the people. Anyway, I don't know where and why non-paper, but the clues that show which maps it mapped are very important, and that's where we need to take good lead, open our eyes and take care of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u43337	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the national minority, on behalf of which the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u43425	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will use this attitude to say something about a subject that is not touched by politics in the lowest sense, but which I think is important to talk about. Today, on 23 April is the World Book and Copyright Day, and yesterday is the Day of the Croatian Book. The date was chosen because of its symbolism in world literature because on April 23, 1616, Miguel de Cervantes and William Shakespeare died. The idea itself is based on the Catholic custom of giving books and roses on the day of St. Yuri. UNESCO launched a celebration that day with the idea of encouraging everyone, especially young people to read and to promote publishing and protection of intellectual property through copyright protection. The decision to mark the World Book and Copyright Day was made at the UNESCO General Conference in Paris in 1995. The day of the Croatian book is marked by 22.4. by the decision of the Croatian Parliament since 1996 to mark Mark Marulic, who finished Judith on that date in 1501. As every year and this year, the event Night of the Book is held in Croatia, but for the Roma community this year's Book Night is not like the others until now because it is for the first time in the Roma Central Library in the Republic of Croatia. It will also be implemented on a variety of programmes, which will, of course, be implemented in accordance with the epidemiological situation and will therefore be held as a virtual event. The night of the book will be marked in the Central Library of Roma in order to contribute to the promotion of reading and the development of reading habits and to promote itself newly established libraries and its buildings. The implementation of these activities will also implement the implementation of measures of the national strategy action plan by encouraging the reading adopted by the Government in 2017, which contributes to the development of culture, reading and allows for the greatest part of society to read with satisfaction and understanding. The book and reading are not only important for the Roma but with everything but for the Roma community, the issue of reading books is particularly important, although the figures, the percentage of literacy in the Roma population, are growing in previous years, the percentage of illiterate is still higher than the average of the general population. That is why I have been stressing the importance of written words since the beginning of my social activity and political action, and I want to promote reading as much as possible. In that sense, I am also the author of the first Croatian-Romanian dictionary and my associates know best how much I insist on as many printed publications related to the Roma community as anyone lasts forever and sometimes it's just a book that remains behind someone's work and actions as evidence of how and what has been done. For generations after us, books will remain reminders of some time but also a possible source of inspiration and knowledge. Some believe that the printed book is a thing of the past and that in the future it will completely replace its digital versions but I don't think so. Just walk around the bookstores and look at the number of editions you can find. It's clear that digital editions will have their market share but I don't think that in a large number of people, it will be able to replace the feeling of holding a book in the hands and listing pages. The book and the printed word of its appearance may have contributed most to the development of mankind. The book has long served not only as a way to convey knowledge or record events but also as a source of entertainment and time spent. Its diversity is also a guarantee of its survival, but in this we must all make our contribution and try to emphasize its importance as well as the importance of copyright. Without the book, there would be no modern civilization, and it is therefore important that we express our gratitude in some way. This day that we mark is only one way of expressing it, as is Book Night. I must once again commend this event because it has turned out to be great and I hope it will take a long time. And I don't think there's any better way to mark this day than to read a book. We have a weekend ahead of us, and I invite you to use it so you can read a book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45580	We are now going to vote, first is the Information on the Summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. Before the vote, I see a few hands in the air, dear colleague of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45581	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Parliament will now vote on a item on the agenda, which is information about the draft summary, and it is disputed for two reasons as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. First, because of the fact that we are not discussing the whole document, but only the summary of the draft, and the second because of the contents of this summary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Parliament is the most representative body of citizens and citizens of this country and I think it would be legitimate, least said legitimately to the Croatian Parliament that the Croatian Parliament had the opportunity to see and then discuss the complete National Recovery and Resistance Plan, but it did not. For what? Because of their decision by the ruling, they showed how much they care about the Croatian Parliament or not. However, the second reason why I find this draft controversial is precisely the content of this summary. Dear colleagues and colleagues during the 2000s, especially in the second half of 2000s during the HDZ government, Croatia has put emphasis on investment in infrastructure. Far from investment in infrastructure in Croatia is not needed, but respected colleagues and colleagues cannot build their future exclusively and only on investment in infrastructure. In 2009, the arrival of the major economic crisis, we saw how this reflected the Croatian economy. And today we feel the consequences of this crisis. I was hoping now that we would change that approach, that we would invest in the economy, but we didn't. And that's why in this plan Which will neither bring recovery nor resistance [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] We from the SDP can't give a vote for it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45582	The apartment is approved. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45583	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, if we today declare this National Recovery and Recovery Plan, the recovery will not be because the ruling party lost everything and one social partner in the development of this plan for the reason that the Economic Institute in Zagreb, the Croatian Employers' Association, the Association of Entrepreneurs, as well as the authorised ones themselves, have said that this plan simply leads to the construction of additional infrastructure and will not lead to economic growth. What the MOST proposal is is to invest 50% of the resources in small, medium and large enterprises, i.e. digitalisation, in increasing production capacity and in the processing industry that produce products and services, therefore of greater added value. If we do not do so, then at EU level, we will lose to the competitiveness of one Denmark, from one Italy that invests already funds, or they are doing their own dumping in the industry or in the private sector, and after the end of this crisis, so they will have much more competitiveness than our products and services, and we will lose in this regard. What's more important here is that this call to HSS, HNS and other parties that are propagating the free market not to vote on this national programme for reasons that voting for such a national programme and resilience will therefore go further in terms of the anti-enterprise climate, the anti-frontier and the anti-market. And at the very end, therefore, we would like to point out once again that this vote today by the National Recovery and Recovery Plan leads to that there will be no recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45584	Third, third request for a break, esteemed colleague Bartulic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45585	Here, thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I'm also asking for a break to still consult on the first point. In fact, it is becoming more and more clear what is the real damage in Croatia of this Covid crisis. With relatively mild measures, our country lost 8.4% of GDP compared to the EU average, so over 30 billion kuna. On average, the EU is around 6%. So we're really losing the race, I keep pointing out that this famous stability is actually the way to stagnation and this plan is actually the continuity of the same. When we talk about resilience, we should actually say that this government is very resistant to any structural reform. So even at a time of mild economic growth when it is easier to implement reforms, she did not, let alone now that the situation is critical. We've learned lately that the cost, for example. The health care sector is not 28 billion but 34 billion is certainly not easy for Minister Maric, says that every free kuna pours into that bottomless hole, and in this programme there is nothing to suggest that this problem will change. When I referred the question to the prime minister about the lack of health reform, he mentioned in response to the happy landscape of some other nebulosis, he did not even try to answer the question. So, you're not getting along by the government actually this is the way to say the hard word "fail." And what increased? Only the number of new jobs in the public sector. Therefore, the government obviously believes that in Croatia the only public sector should be a employment engine, not a private one. So we'll be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45586	Thank you very much, colleague Bartulica. The apartment is approved. Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45587	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club on this point where we're actually going to vote on the information on the summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, not the National Recovery and Resistance Plan itself. So we got eighty pages of text that's pretty general, which doesn't contain concrete projects for which we're going to withdraw money from this fund, and then to our insistence that it's possible that the prime minister asked his associate to show us as if there really is a 10-fold document, to show us the cover of that document in HS as if we were in the wheel of happiness, here you see, there, here you show the MPs. I find it humiliating, humiliating for HS to thus show the document to see the cover, and that we can't see the whole document, that we can't see what the projects are, that we can't see the answer to the question of whether this will really mean a developmental shift for the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to green transition and digitalisation of the economy. This document shows the greening of the industry in Croatia, but it is not seen whether we are going to do it in a way, it is not seen because there are no such projects, there is no mention of it in this 80-page document, whether we are going to develop a domestic green industry so as not to take money from eu funds, and actually spend it on products that we will bring to Croatia from these eu countries to green our industry, because if that is the situation then we will not create a new added value that will remain as much in the local community. We don't see this green turn and strengthening the domestic green industry in this document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45588	And we have another request for a break, colleague Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45589	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club to consult again on the National Recovery Programme and see the opposition as if it wants to do better on principle, as if they're sorry that all that money has arrived in Croatia. Once again for our citizens, a total of 24.5 billion euros are at our disposal over the next 10 years, the National Recovery Plan has ed, 6.3 billion euros, that part is defined by reforms. We are also the first and second in the EU by the amount of funds in the National Recovery Programme. Yesterday we had a debate with Vice-President Metsolo only one MP from the opposition came forward, only one of all of you here. Here you are, Mrs. Selak Rasudic, who you raise, and you weren't at the dialogue with her yesterday when we were commended. First, that 46% goes for green transformation, 27% for digital, that's much more than the National Recovery Plan requires. Secondly, we are one country with the highest investment in the private sector 30%, Germany has zero, and when we look at what it will bring to our citizens, so it will bring our citizens 30% of direct investment to our entrepreneurs, it will lead to our investing in biorefinery for Banovina 1 billion kuna, which will lead to schools that we cannot build from the Euro Funds several hundred schools, homes for older people and most of the money will be in business practically 95% except 500 million kuna for 500 million specialization of our doctors, which you must also say is not a bad investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45590	Thank you. And this break has been approved. We have two requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the first colleague is Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45591	Art. 238, my colleague Pavić can't do without me, look at the official statistics I'm currently the third most active parliamentary representative in the entire meeting, and you're twice as bad as me. First, and when you talk about this recovery plan, optimization of the analytical base system, you signed this project 2018. 45,000 kunas cost a missed public procurement with mistakes, and now you've got it back in this plan. He's so good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45592	You're well aware that this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you haven't even tried to explain it, so you get a warning. Comrade Puljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45593	Your Honor. Here is the breach of Rules of Procedure 238, re-insulting the representatives here and again bringing out those thesis that we don't care about Croatia getting billions, just to remind my colleague that we haven't received these billions yet, and based on this document we probably won't even get. And another thesis, so we don't criticise because we don't love our country, we love it and we want it to be a country of happy and satisfied people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u45594	Thank you very much. Your colleagues are being warned, it is clear that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have violated the Rules of Procedure. We now go with the vote in view of the 293.b. I shall give the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, the following conclusion: ‘1. Information shall be accepted on the summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan in 2021-2026 and 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the preparation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I find that 121 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 1 abstention and 44 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46178	Now we're going to vote, we have four united reports. A) Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes of European Union assistance for the period from January to 30 June 2019 (B) Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes of European Union assistance for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2019 (C) Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes of European Union assistance for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2020 (D) The report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2020 is concluded. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary home working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: those reports from A) to D shall be adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 30 abstentions and 11 against, have voted, and thus the conclusion has been reached that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46435	Report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2019, the applicant is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: Report on the situation in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013-2019 is accepted. Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 37 abstentions and 5 against, have voted, and thus the conclusion has been reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We also have the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit the Report on the State of the Republic of Croatia for the four-year period from 2013 to 2016 and from 2017 to 2020 in accordance with the Spatial Regulation Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that this proposal has not received the necessary majority, 117 voted, 43 for, 74 against. The half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the first half of 2020, is the applicant of the CNB, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: It takes note of the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the first half of 2020. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 118 MPs and deputies voted, 103 for, 12 abstentions and 3 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parent constituency body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46633	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I ask you to take your seats and start today's work. As you know, we will begin with the point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 127 The Proposer is a Government based article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Maria Pleikosa, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46634	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. The volunteering system in the Republic of Croatia is defined by the 2007 Voluntary Law. which shall be governed by basic terms related to volunteering. Basic principles of volunteering, conditions of volunteering, the rights and duties of volunteers and the organizers of volunteering as well as other issues of importance for volunteering. At the beginning of 2013 The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering has been adopted. More significant changes related to the long-term and short-term definition, the definition of volunteers and volunteers, the situation in which it is mandatory to conclude a volunteering contract, the rights and obligations of volunteers and volunteers, the competence acquired by volunteering, the introduction of the concept of volunteering in crisis situations and the principles of inclusive volunteering. The objective of amending and supplementing the law is to bring it into line with the current situation in the field of volunteering and to remove existing obstacles or ambiguities related to the application of the current law. The most important amendments and additions to the Voluntary Law relate to the harmonisation of the law with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, to the definition of the four-year term of office for the National Committee for Volunteering Development and the possibility of appointing members' replacements, to facilitate the organisation of committee meetings. To be included in the National Committee of the Representatives of the Authority of the Government responsible for Youth, Civil Protection, Tourism and Sports, as well as the national agencies responsible for the implementation of the EU volunteering programme. Defining the concept of volunteering a business subject, defining the concept of volunteer coordinator in charge of effective management of the volunteering programme. Defining the idea of a volunteer centre programme and how they are financed, clear dynstance between the concepts of volunteering and traineeship, redefine the concept of long-term volunteering, the duration of three months without interruptions at least twice a month, enabling long-term volunteer volunteering, editing the concept of training for volunteering and additional protection of children involved in volunteering, especially on the route of the organizer of volunteering. Amendments to the provisions on the content of a volunteer certificate, the withdrawal of the signing of volunteers and the seal of volunteers and the possibility of issuing by electronic means. Regulation of the prohibition of the use of volunteers in the event of emergency and unpredictable situations is authorised to volunteer fully replacing work carried out by workers in accordance with a law governing working relations and volunteering for more than 38 hours a week for a period of more than three months. The following is proposed to adopt the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46635	Thank you very much. Stay a moment. We have several replicas. It is the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46636	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. It's good to bring these amendments and the additions to the law, I would focus on the area of health we discussed on the committee. So, you have volunteers, you have volunteer students who have selflessly given themselves now and in these crisis situations, and also in the covid pandemic in the earthquake, but you have doctors who even out of these crisis situations want to volunteer, but then they actually use their annual vacation. In these amendments and additions, this area is not really well defined, so it should enable all those who wish to volunteer to be valued in a way that they do not have to spend their annual work. And as for volunteer students who have been hired, I think it would be a good idea for them to sort of hold on to their participation for the common good, so I don't know if you have any idea if this was going to happen to them in college in terms of what kind of election cases? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46637	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46638	Thank you very much for this question and proposal. There's a possibility, of course, that in the second reading, we can also introduce these changes. In fact, according to the current bill, with the confirmation of volunteering, here's what I've said, so we're open to further changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46639	Dear representative Bedekovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46640	Thank you very much. Your Honor, ma'am. State Secretary, we are aware of the fact that volunteering is an extremely rapidly developed and growing area, so since 2009 as a zero year, the number of volunteers and the number of volunteering hours, for example in 2019, we had 64 280 volunteers and amazing 3 million 43 954 hours of volunteering, and that is precisely why changes to this law, which was last amended in 2013 and what I think is particularly important, and here I am telling you really support, putting emphasis on volunteer centres that actually exist, but the law did not recognise them where it is necessary to regulate the work of centres as a volunteer infrastructure with a very important emphasis on managing and volunteers and processes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46641	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46642	Your Honor, I would like to thank you for this comment. And here's one of the goals and reasons why we went to change and supplement, is to organize volunteer centres. In fact, four regional volunteer centres and 28 locals have also worked so far. However, there has just been a need to edit and administratively edit and apply to projects, so we are working on it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46643	The Republic also has a respected representative, Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46644	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, certainly my replica will go in the same direction as my colleague Maric had, something like that. In fact, volunteering is really precious for a society where a volunteer gives an unselfish and selfless and his skills and his free working time at the disposal of someone who volunteers or generally in the social community, however, the impression is that it is not promoted enough, that it is not enough to volunteer, that other resolutions are not included in the promotion of volunteering, I am afraid that it will remain everything on you and on this law. Namely, what am I saying? It would be nice if, for example, through or through inter-resorship cooperation or some other regulations, through the points, the study enrolled was valued with certain points, such as volunteering in social humanitarian organisations, if the knowledge from the competition is valued, it would certainly be quite significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46645	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46646	Your Honor, I thank you for this proposal. I agree that, that it is known that volunteering is actually extremely important in raising children and young people and right through inter-resorial cooperation, volunteering should be developed. I can say from my own experience that here we are, and I have organized or formed a volunteer centre in 2008 and I can say that we have had extremely good cooperation with preschool institutions, with primary and secondary schools and universities, so I am sure that this is very good and that these children and young people should, in some way, be encouraged and other than developing one, which develops one goodness, and sensitivity to those who need [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] for persons who are in a state of social protection of needs, the possibility should be given to these children. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46647	Thank you very much. The replica of the respected representative Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46648	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state, here's the case you're coming from Zadar where I came from, and I know you started a volunteer center years ago. So since you were at the volunteer center then, now you're a secretary of state, can you actually tell me the parallel between the beginning of the establishment of the centre, today to this position where it is and how many people have gone through the volunteering center and how many they have done nameless fine deeds that have helped either the individual or the community and whether volunteers are sufficiently represented in public to sensitize the public for the work they are doing, so here and now we know that this recent earthquake that was in Zagreb and Banovina was also the same. Please. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46649	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46650	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, as you mentioned yourself, we worked very well together, you as Director of the School of V. Nazor in Zadar and I as Director of the House for Adults in Zadar, just through the volunteer centre a large number of young people came, a large number of young people were introduced to our call and later enrolled in studies of humanities that were in some way related to their experience. Indeed, the volunteer center itself has developed during that period of 13 years and has become self-sustainable, so in any case it is a nice experience and I think that the development of volunteering and volunteering centres should continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46651	The replica of the respected MPs, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46652	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I'm going to ask you something about volunteering right from your portfolio. So you know well that we have very little employment or it would be much better to have children or young people who finish social work, then have the possibility of employment. There's a lot of them on the stock market, it's open now, and when the problem opens, how many social workers do it, then the problem opens up. They are very often opted for volunteering and volunteering. I'm curious whether you in these other regulations regulated this in a way that volunteering takes them into work experience when passing an expert exam? I can say that for something I know about architects. So they often decided to go out and volunteer somewhere then this work experience entered them into volunteering, then passed a professional exam as a work experience. I wonder if that's how you regulate it for a social worker's portfolio?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46653	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46654	Your Honor, I thank you for your suggestion. Well, unfortunately, in the first place, I would like to mention that social workers on the stock market are unfortunately not as much as you are showing, but here in Zadar there are two now, in Zagreb I think there is, now I don't know the exact number, but I think there are 20 and something. In any case, there are not so many social workers, but of course our goal is to hire them and social workers are indeed much greater needs than they are. Anyway, we're going to new jobs, so we're already on our way, so this one's gonna solve it. And I agree with you that it would be very good for every volunteer, including social workers, and all other young people to be valued in some way and to be or through a recommendation. for work. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46655	Thank you. Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46656	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. State Secretary, I'm interested, it's hard to track statistics because the last ones we have are for 2019, they point to a slight increase in volunteers, number of volunteers, volunteer reports and volunteer services compared to 2018, but they also point to a slight decline in the number of volunteer hours. I'm interested in this following, 2020. is indeed a special year in the Republic of Croatia with regard to volunteering activities, volunteers in formal, but also an emphasis would be placed on informal volunteering, I wonder if you have any indicators for 2020. How many new people have decided to volunteer to encourage not only the crown by the crisis but also the earthquakes that took place in Zagreb and Banovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46657	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46658	I thank you for this question. Here, thank you, I do, I do, but I'm looking for these indicators. Yes, you're right, number, number of volunteering and volunteering hours, obviously not, that not everything is registered because I can mention that we are in 2020. The number of registered volunteers was increased by 5%, the number of volunteers reported was reduced by 25%. Of course we can interpret this pandemic and this situation that we've found ourselves in, but on the other hand, we've had situations where volunteers have shown a great deal of willingness to help, and these are, of course, these situations that we've had with earthquakes. However, the number of hours according to our records has been reduced by 7% compared to 2019, but remains You're on your own. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46659	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46660	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State. The reasons why we are making additions and amendments to this law first states that the existing law does not follow changes in the volunteering system, but the second reason is that it is necessary for the National Committee for Volunteering to function should provide for the possibility of deputies. My question, in the current law, was 6 representatives of the public authority, 7 representatives of civil society organisations and 6 independent experts, why has this ratio now increased in favour of the public sector body and 2/3 because, if so, it will be regularly reputed so that the representatives of the workers will vote, and especially when the committee may seek measures to improve the position of volunteers in society?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46661	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46662	Well, I don't think they'll vote too much, I'm sure we all do, that we all work and act in the same direction, and that's our common goal of developing volunteering. Here we have, we have this proposal, so I wouldn't, I wouldn't be able to say that it's going to vote, I think we're going to be able to work with what we've introduced, so what's been a problem so far, and the problem is if someone can't come to, that can't even hold a session, now it's going to be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46663	The next replica of the respected representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46664	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that these legal changes should surely be supported because it is primarily simpler to carry out volunteering. And so far, there has often been some form of volunteering at local level, and here it is called informal, and I can confirm that, and I think it was mostly because of the legal obstacles that were. We all agree that volunteering gives one additional value to society and I'm interested in whether you have planned together with local communities to do a single campaign in volunteering so that what is now informal volunteering becomes formal or based on the law and has all the bluffs that the Law on Volunteering and Brings?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46665	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46666	Thank you very much. Yeah, it's true, we talked about launching a campaign, about sensitizing the public for this human action through volunteering, so we'll definitely do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46667	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the Honorable Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46668	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament held at the 9th session of the Committee held on 21 April 2021 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteership, which was submitted by the Government of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 18 March 2021. The Committee discussed the proposal as a home working body in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia further explained the reasons for the application of this proposal by stating how it is necessary to amend and supplement the existing law because the volunteering system also develops and the normative law must respect progress. In addition, in order for the National Voluntary Development Committee to function, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of appointing deputy board members related to volunteer centres as well as the change of importance in the organisation system and the promotion of volunteering. The proposal defines the method of funding and the concept of the volunteer centre programme. In a debate followed by all present board members, they welcomed this bill. A debate was opened regarding the evaluation of volunteer work. It is pointed out that volunteers and volunteering are not and cannot be a substitute for internships regulated by law and designed to acquire certain professional competences in individual professions. However, it is noted that volunteers must be recognized as persons who have acquired a certain working experience although not a working internship. And their time should be rewarded. Some of the proposals for a possible evaluation of volunteering are that the experience gained by volunteering brings additional points when entering the university or that the experience and knowledge acquired by volunteering are additionally valuable when hiring, especially if volunteering is done in related activities and the acquired skills are welcome to the employer. There are also reflections on volunteering in crisis situations where we are all witnessing after last year's earthquake in Zagreb, Petrinja, Sisak and Glini. With pride given the high response of volunteers from all parts of the Republic of Croatia, it remains to be considered whether it was organisational and how it could facilitate or improve volunteering. Certainly greater coordination of organizers and many volunteers who, under exceptional circumstances, were welcome to the field. Since the whole bill is being replaced by volunteers or volunteers, it is a volunteer, the question is whether this is in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality and whether it seems to be a step backwards in gender equality. In this regard, the applicants explained how these changes occurred due to compliance with Article 13. Unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, National No. 74/2015. Following the discussion, members of the board unanimously voted with 7 votes to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46669	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on this point and will be the first to speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the MostRespected Representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46670	I'll immediately relate to some of the things that have been opened up here in replicas so that I can go to the very changes and the additions of the law. So, as for the board members working on this presentation, I consulted several documents. One is just the report of the National Committee from 2017 to 2019 which I asked the Ministry to deliver to me, another is the statistics for volunteering where there are comparative statistics compared to 2019. – 2020, and then European volunteer statistics to see where Croatia is within the European average. So, as far as the board members are concerned, if I read the report correctly, there is indeed a problem with coming to meetings where there were at least 10, and at most 14 members if I am not mistaken because I have no data in front of me, and there are more than 20 board members. So, on the one hand, there is a need for alternate board members, but on the other hand, the question arises why they, why are elected board members who cannot attend meetings. So, perhaps you should consider a different way of appointing board members and even understanding the role in the work of the committee. So these are small reports, if you look at it I think on that trail one has 17 pages. In order to be able to work more on volunteering, this points to a deeper problem, since the board members from all segments of society on the one hand are civil and, on the other hand, from state institutions, that volunteering is not really sufficiently developed for us, nor is it given the social importance that belongs to it. So I volunteered myself, and today I still remain a member of the Volunteer Centre of Zagreb, or at least I get their newsletters so that I have this statistics so that I am very familiar with the statistics and volunteering. So I would also like to say something about the very system of volunteering, and then specifically about these legal changes. So the first thing to say is that you don't volunteer for nothing. So, on the one hand, although this is not regulated and although you do not receive material work compensation especially when we talk about young people who are the majority who volunteer in Croatia unlike Europe there is always some form of immaterial compensation from which, later on, if the system is well established, you can profit from. So if you look at who are champions of volunteering in Croatia you will notice that a very large number of volunteers are hiding and doing volunteer hours precisely in different organizations such as the Debate Society, the Union of Young People, etc. So these are organizations that allow these young volunteers, on the one hand, to travel, to participate in certain activities, and to be free of charge, and on the other hand, later, especially if they will apply for foreign scholarships, and thus value the work that is volunteering. So he is not sufficiently recognized in Croatia, but outside, if you want some prestigious scholarship, one of the first things that will ask you is what you have done in the civil sector, how you have contributed to your society and these young people who want to help, who have recognized it as an opportunity, can profit directly from volunteering, which we see by the organizations in which they are involved, just as, for example, our Hajduk has a large number of volunteers who, then, in some other way, can use this volunteering system, and this is not always necessarily this business practice in terms of material compensation. Another thing to talk about, and it happened during this crisis, especially during the earthquake, is the abuse of volunteering. So you had cases, you could follow in the media, a young girl who appeared as a logo, advertised as if she had a big heart, eventually turned out to be a fraud. So it's not unusual, there was also a case of the Red Cross where it was given to people on behalf of the Red Cross who weren't that the situation, exactly the crisis situations were used to make the use of our citizens' trust by acting as volunteers. In this sense, it would be very useful to know how many such cases were now in Banovina and how many were in this other earthquake affected areas, so we can see how serious this problem is in Croatia. Is it individual media cases or some systematic practice and whether the perpetrators have been found and properly sanctioned? I followed this case around the Red Cross, but I didn't find out, I couldn't find out what the epilogue was, whether the perpetrators were found and whether they were punished. Secondly, what I would also like to warn you, a large number of volunteers are also present in health organizations. In particular, we can find volunteers in the form of parents whose children were suffering from severe illnesses, who later decided to sacrifice part of their time to raise awareness of the problem of rare, unknown or insufficiently funded care systems, diseases. But I think when it comes to such cases, given the involvement of parents and how important it is to sensitize the public, that their status should be better regulated. Therefore, the warning of various malignancies and other diseases cannot depend on the well-being of parents who have directly encountered such a problem or people who themselves have been ill, but the system needs to find as many ways to enable them to receive financial compensation for what they are doing because their contribution to society is truly immeasurable. It's a place where I don't think we need volunteers, that we need more employees. So, I'd also like to say something about champions of volunteering in Croatia. If you look at the latest statistics for 2020 then when we talk about the number of volunteers, more than 1000 volunteers had the Croatian Red Cross, the Association On behalf of the family and the Federation of Scouts of Croatia. When we talk about the number of hours they volunteered, the champions of volunteering in Croatia are again the Croatian Red Cross, far exceeds, probably it has to do with this whole health-shock situation, 140 608 hours, an association On behalf of the family with 54 490 hours, and then, more than 20 thousand also, have an Erasmus student network, Our Hajduk association, Croatian Debate Society, some who care for animals, such as the U.S. rabbit shelter and wild rabbits Mrkvica, the University Catholic Centre Split, the World Youth Association, the University of the Catholic Centre of Dubrovnik, etc. and Association of Croatian Volunteers of the Homeland War. We also need to note that there are adept Catholic associations outside these associations that deal with animals and youth associations, and therefore speak of civil society in Croatia and those who are willing to volunteer. So, with regard to the volunteering situation in Croatia compared to the rest of Europe, there was a discrepancy, for example, with women volunteering about 10% more than men, there is no such difference in Europe between women and men. Also, we have the most volunteers from 18 to 30 years, about 37%. It is important to say that a 50% drop in foreign volunteers has also been observed, while older people volunteer more and more in Europe, respectively. So that's not the case with us. If we look at European statistics where we are, in Europe somewhere more than 20% of people are engaged formally or informally, 22.2 compared to 19.3% volunteer activities, Croatia is there with 10%. So that's how we are with Europe, you can say, twice as much, even though we are nowhere near the worst in Europe. So what I'm going to say in conclusion is two things, since I don't have any more time, unfortunately, and there's a lot to point out. So volunteering is important because there are a large number of citizens, it is rarely said, it is almost unknown data, which suffers from social depression, i.e. who have no one to talk to, about 5% at Europe level or have anyone who can help them. This figure of 5% reaches nearly 10% in the older years, and there is a much greater difference between women and men, where men are much more affected. They have no one to help them, no one to talk to. This is the place where active citizenship is involved and where volunteers are needed. And as for the amendments and additions of these laws, I will point out one because I no longer have time, so it is particularly important to keep an eye on the exploitation of young people, exploiting trainees, so that someone does not volunteer instead of getting compensation for their work. In that sense, Art. 12, in his article. 2 where it is said that no volunteering is allowed for more than 38 hours, etc. and then, as well as the long-term or continuous conduct of volunteering jobs which would otherwise represent payment contractual relations, it should be more detailed and more concretely regulated so that this could not be arbitrarily interpreted and therefore misused to the detriment of young people who deserve a job and not to volunteer in certain companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46671	The next one will be Mrs. Rada Boric on behalf of the Green-left bloc representative club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46672	Chairman, once again, Madam Secretary of State. What is good in this proposal, and we often don't have in the documents here, and at the end of the proposal, we have changes and an analysis of the effects and, of course, parts of the public debate and proposals of those who volunteer and those who know what volunteering is. And we will all agree that life is more pro-pulsory, more interesting than the laws and laws themselves should be changed according to all those changes that are happening, and one of these good changes is awareness of volunteering. Of course, this zero point since 2009 that we start counting volunteers and volunteers doesn't mean that they haven't been there in fact, and we all know how much volunteering has been done in the same way during the Homeland War and afterwards, and how many, in particular, women's associations have started volunteering since the 1990s in the care of the fight against violence against women. What the colleague pointed out here, and what many know that volunteering must not be a substitute for what is sub-disciplined in different systems, so volunteering where our parents who have children with special needs have to worry about doing something that needs a system. So women's associations who would also volunteer because they would volunteer because it's intrinsically important to them, they have to do it additionally because they missed the system. Here we talked and talked about also on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport and what it means to volunteer in times of crisis, so here and here statistics that we didn't or did get for 2020. We just need to see what it means to volunteer in a crisis system where we don't talk like the law says about volunteer centres, which are its tasks, the law does well and what it means is a co-ordinator in such a center, which means even so I would say some kind of, not some kind of sanctioning all those who do miss out, including with regard to young volunteers etc., etc. You've got it all in the law. What I think should be predicted here, what about so-called. informal volunteering, where it is marked and whether it can be, i.e. For example, it was already needed to be improved. during an earthquake in Banja. Couldn't there be some I won't say mobile volunteer center, one of the tents where you'd sign up and all those who wanted to volunteer? And I was alone at the same old age in Clay, and I went to the May Pole, volunteers passed each other and asked who and where they needed help. So that was three days after the earthquake, there should have been some place where we would have applied and wondered where the greatest needs were, not to come to the same place five times or five volunteer groups. So I think we should really sort out what's going on by volunteering in crisis situations and who's taking care of it. Could there be in such situations exactly the kind of mobile teams that exist and that have been stopped in these 30 years, say good co-operation between civil society and police regarding violence against women? So, some things we can watch that's already done well and here someone's been talking and we're always saying, there's no synergy between different systems. If we are talking about volunteering and volunteering for young people and protecting or introducing young people, then we really need to connect different ministries, and I would say in particular that the Ministry of Education has a role. It's out there, I've lived out there for a long time, from the wounds, and we know that since kindergarten, children have been learning to volunteer. Of course, it's not called volunteering, whether it collects food for kittens and dogs from a shelter, so we teach the children from the wounds just as much as we teach them in elementary school with extreme attention and supervision as children do, you can see that in law and provided for by the permission of parents or guardians. So some things we've been paying attention to, but I think we've given too little to promote volunteering and that, especially in schools, and then we've said here a reward system, we've talked about this later age, but why not in elementary school kids who are enrolled always have some extra points if they've been in math competitions or competitions in Croatian, that the number of hours they've been volunteering, together with their mentors, wouldn't be one I'd say of the advantages of enrolment and in high school, as well as for colleges, so talking about hiring really embarrassingly that internship. We heard a call from the carlobe hospital the other day where they call the hospital volunteers. I can come to the hospital and read patients a book, but I need to know what I volunteer as someone who has no experience and knowledge in the system, so that we don't get missed, which is not the question of how they'll be sanctioned. In some places I certainly can't volunteer, and in many places I can. So, what is very important is that I think more attention should be paid to promoting volunteering itself and promoting it in the community. The volunteering I've seen looks like where young people go to nursing homes to read, where we're talking about the system I don't know about deinstitutionalization. How are we gonna talk if I don't know we have that trunk or me between two generations? Can we once again become a society in which we support each other because what is crucial in the impact analysis, I am very glad that it stands, are great direct social impacts, social inclusion and protection of sensitive groups. And if we just think that that's why it's important to us, that everyone feels socially good, so involvement if they can't, the colleague said it's good for the elderly, i.e. One more out there this generation that retires, and we can volunteer, of course, that those who work and who work first, can't spare that many hours. Here, as I understand it, and related to the European directives, the question is why we have increased the number of volunteers a week from 30 to 40, it sounds like we have to do a working week as well as some working person, right, 4.5 times 8, so we need to see, it's about Europe, it needs to be up, it can't be conditioned that way, but if we write just 30 hours, it's going to happen that we may not know, we can apply to some European means of volunteering. So it's crucial, not only by law to provide and see and improve the work of the volunteering centre, it's crucial to educate but not only in the education system, but young people on volunteering, and here I have to say again, regardless of this right hand side, citizen education is crucial. Civil education doesn't mean here just raising children about their sex, it's about being a better citizen, how to be an empathy citizen. You have seen, we are neither the Netherlands nor Finland that there are objects called empathy, where you teach people about empathy and the core I would say or the heart of volunteering is just empathy. And in addition, I would say that the change that tells us here is that nomotechnical change, volunteer and volunteer to change, and that changes because of Parliament's rules, that change that we're going to abolish a volunteer not to show what a volunteer has 10% more than a volunteer, but because the Law on Gender Equality, which ultimately, is organic laws, I believe that it should be from some regulation and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, where it is arranged that the male race is as valid as the female, then it is necessary to look at the article. 14. The law on gender equality, which states in paragraph 5, "All educational institutions as well as all others, must use language standards in the content of testimonies, certificates, licences and diplomas according to this law, indicating professional qualifications, knowledge and occupations in the female or male gender, depending on the sex of the recipient/receiver of the document." Here we said that volunteers will receive certificates, which is fine, whether they volunteered, and then if they write the name of Rada Boric, volunteer, then it is not in accordance with the law which prescribes that not only licenses, diplomas and certificates should already be written in both generations, and I do not see what is controversial that we all say in our daily life is smarter than the law, we all say to volunteers and to me that none of you are a volunteer, and I am also a volunteer. And I hope, for the end, that maybe the Parliament as well, as a result, is not just an association, introduces that perhaps we too can have volunteers to learn something and how the Parliament works. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46673	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will fly that Center and GLAS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46674	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary with an associate. Today we have before us in the first reading of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering. The basic law was from 2007, one change was from 2013. I think we must all use this debate in a way that we are really talking about the importance and importance of volunteering for society. Volunteering is a way of life. There are countries where every citizen, therefore, is part of his time or in the part of his adulthood, committed to volunteering. In Croatia, this process is not among the worst and we do not need to and should not say it like that, but it is simply slow. We recognize that in critical situations. As there was an earthquake in the city of Zagreb or much more, it was seen at the end of the year as an earthquake in Banja/Banovina, in fact it was a great heart but that great heart in that volunteering, I will not talk about all the bad experiences because these bad experiences are much less and in the process than they are good experiences, but always media get a lot more space, I want to talk about good experiences and I want to talk about that every opportunity should be used by the ministry, but when we talk about this pay phone or somewhere else, that we talk about the importance of volunteering. It's got to be part of the education. It must be part of the way of life, it's something where you participate to make a contribution to society as citizens during your growing up and youth and later on. So really when you see kids in kindergarten, you learn and teach them, we teach them something in elementary school, and then somehow we forget it all together. So the role must be for all those in the public space to emphasize the importance of volunteering. Volunteering in no way, and we'll all point out, can't be a substitute for traineeship, volunteering can't be when someone hires, and then he volunteers because through my experience we have had and we have a different one. I have to admit that when I finished my studies and started working, it was of course in one country, in another century, then those who had graduated from law school, there was no chance of being hired in any court and couldn't be there nor interns and then there, it was the most normal thing that... They were called volunteers, they worked without compensation, and in the end it entered their work experience so that they could compete somewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's certainly good that there is a certificate and that this certificate is an advantage over those who have contributed to society, whether it's children who are then going to go to high school as they have if someone is going to have additional activities that will naturally be respected by those points. So this is absolutely equivalent, so someone who goes to music school will get extra points because they went to music school, someone who volunteered too. It has to be some kind of advantage in getting a scholarship, it's got to be some kind of advantage in enrolment in colleges, it's gotta be and really when you want to apply for some kind of enrollment or, or a doctorate or something out there. One of the things if you volunteered and you contributed with your work to society regardless of you can go out to enroll a Ph.D. in mathematics, so there doesn't have to be some kind of science or activities that you somehow feel that, that this call is volunteering. The fact that you contributed with your work to society, that you were a volunteer, that you did ahead of someone else. There are also a number of things where people, young people who finish some schools decide to volunteer in part and somewhere in the work they're educated for. Me and we were doing it at one point to make sure that what did a certain number of hours was something that counts to him as an experience he gained and then when you have to pass an expert exam you have to have, you don't have to be employed, you have to have a working experience, a certain number of hours or a certain number of days or months that you then have to have some work experience. Of course, there is no need to succumb, therefore, to volunteering in the knowledge it has to be replaced for work and thus to replace it. What I always think is good when you give society something that shows empathy. We and that are now, and it's showing up more and more. I've had opportunities, my, my somehow the best kind of experience I've had the opportunity to feel was Israel. So, they really have all the volunteer organizations out there who care about old people, about people who themselves live, so not only in the part where you bring them food, that you take care of them, but that you spend time with them in socializing, in walking town, in walking, I don't know, in watching TV together, going to a concert, so I'm talking about normal conditions when we live normally. And that's something we have to talk about. In Croatia, look, yesterday we had one of course to me was an interesting report on the state of the space that has both part of demographics and see how many more of the old population and single people we have, people who live alone, who spend a few days not talking if they don't go to a store with no one, possibly via a mobile phone. And that's one way, we have to, I mean it's a fact, we can't hide it under the carpet and say that we don't have it, and that's one of the big branches of volunteering, and I'm experiencing this pay phone to talk about, that's something we need to talk about, that we need to take care of, what young people have to worry about. So look at it all around you. The relationship with my mom has a lot better and more patience with my kids than I do. So when she tells me something, I'm already on the second sentence, my kids are looking at me, and she says, "Listen to Grandma, tell me what she says." So, young people will have feelings for someone who's older, who's home alone, who hasn't talked to anyone, will listen to these stories that will be interesting, will go with them to the show, go to the movies, go somewhere, and I'm really experiencing this law in part about talking about such things. It's important, it's important that we develop this awareness of volunteering and it's developed since, from the youngest age, and then in your life it's normal for you to part of your time, to go and volunteer one afternoon, to go and help one weekend, there are, indeed, lots of organizations in which you need to help physically. We all have some experience with that. We see that volunteering clearly in extreme situations. Extreme situations are earthquake situations when everyone actually feels this empathy, but empathy has to be continuous, but it's from the earliest age, so kindergarten, school, high school. Of course it has to be part of it, it has to be organized. I think it's good that these volunteer centres are for the simple reason that once you have some bad experience, then you're not going to have this one, somehow you're going to have a bad experience and a cramp, and I think volunteering is something good, I think it's a positive, that you feel like you've done something right with us. And these amendments and additions to the law, we have here two dilemmas, or one dilemma is that provision. 12. where really is volunteering that says that, that it's not allowed for more than 36 hours. I think we need to step it up a little bit. And the topic where you have a board of 19 members, I think it's incomparably better that more members of those who are from the field, who are from associations, and less of those who are from formal some systems because those who are from the field can really talk about the real problems that they are and if we want that committee to really be, somehow, the driver of some things, then I think that it's better those two things, but otherwise it's one law that you have to formally have, you'll make changes and supplements, but absolutely do everything to talk more about volunteering, to show the importance and importance of that and to be one element in raising children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46675	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Nada Murganic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46676	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys, Directors, colleagues and colleagues, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering of the HDZ Club will certainly support it, and it is obvious from the debate that this will be both in a way and unanimous support. It is precisely because the role of volunteering and volunteering is manifested in the well-being and progress of society, and often really is not sufficiently recognized in society. The very notion of volunteering represents different activities that a person performs without financial compensation, without coercion and in it invests his free time, his knowledge, skills and effort for the welfare of others or society as a whole. It was precisely because of the importance of volunteering and volunteering that on December 5th was declared World Volunteering Day, and then it is also an opportunity to talk about the need for volunteering and its meaning as well as today's opportunity because of this law. Most often we associate it, volunteering, with direct help from others through voluntary work in social, humanitarian and social organisations, however, many particularly young people who are active and through various activities of protection, environmental cleaning, helping to organise cultural events, collecting different financial resources, but what we have now unfortunately seen is how much power and how much love we love for helping our people in earthquakes has also been in times of war and others. All of us here have brought out some of our experiences, were volunteers or organizers of volunteering. I have to say that once the Red Cross had a significant role to play, but he had volunteers in early, young days through children in elementary schools, through youth who had been in different vocational schools, and then that association with older people where children might have worn bread and milk, played man, not angry or chess with older people lonely in their apartments. It was also very important to have small repairs through various young people who were preparing for a particular professional profession, such as a small apartment or very similar. However, what I like to say is certain that here the volunteering became much sooner than we passed the laws and there were many earlier volunteers as well as their hours spent in volunteering before statistics were conducted. Such an orderly way, through regulations and through centres under guard or under the watchful eye of the administration, will certainly lead to some progress in this case of the ministry. What I would like to say is that once again it is important to raise and educate young people. In addition to gaining new knowledge and skills, they gain experiences that can be defined later in choosing their professions, but they also gain new friendships and have very high quality social contacts. Older people volunteering can help to adapt to retirement because we also know, and modern society is developing in this direction that there is an increasing social isolation and certainly that prevention and mitigation of certain chronic illnesses volunteering has its own purpose. Since 2013, the Law has established the basic concepts relating to volunteering, the principles and conditions of volunteering, the rights and duties of volunteers and the organisers of the law, as well as the supervision of the enforcement of the law, but also the volunteering and the process and activities that they have done as volunteers and carried out. Data like we said from 2009 to '19. They say there's an increase in volunteering and volunteering hours. Of course, it is one indicative statistic, but what is very important is that there is this trend of increasing volunteering and volunteering hours and that is something that we can be proud of in any case. According to legal provisions that are in force, volunteers may be associations, foundations, religious organisations, public institutions, tourist communities and other legal entities not established with the aim of obtaining profits, state bodies and bodies of units of local and regional or regional self-government. What is interesting is that the amendments to the laws are also proposed to volunteer a business entity which is defined as a legal person operating on the market with the aim of obtaining profits and are voluntary to them for the benefit of the community, which must be mandatory in cooperation with the volunteer organiser and which its employees carry out voluntarily and which does not represent their work obligation and in doing so some very significant companies are recognizable and have one, one promotion, and also themselves and their activities, but do so in a way and the well-being of the community. In our country, a significant segment of volunteer infrastructure and logistics and make up volunteer centres that support and perform as volunteers and contribute to the development of volunteering, which is a valuable aspect of action. The main task of volunteer organizers is to inform and promote and develop volunteer activities, to help organizers and volunteers in education, however, I would especially say that we have important volunteer centres precisely because in some ways we have control of who the volunteer is, we have information about who these persons are, the data is in one place because we know very well, we have an example of where under the cover of volunteering is known to have certain criminal activities, or abuses, but also, it is very important that we know who and where we guide volunteers because it is certainly important, especially when it comes to children or young people. What may yet need to be pointed out, why this law is passed, are the concept of volunteering of a business subject, the concept of volunteer coordinator, the concept of a volunteer centre programme, as well as the way in which it is financed. Also, in order to facilitate the work and the possibility of holding committee meetings, which were already discussed earlier, this law also appoints the replacement of board members to be able to take place uninterruptedly and that the Committee may also justify its role. The bill further regulates the volunteering and traineeship ratio. We certainly said that volunteering cannot be a substitute for traineeship and vice versa, but that what we pointed out certainly should be stimulated and rewarded by volunteers, especially as it is pointed out, when enrolling in colleges, when achieving the right of more points on certain scholarships, because in this way we show that we value their work and also, we have kind of passed this volunteering on to other subjects, first of all, I mean the regulations of science and education, but also many others. Certainly what is important is that for this law, additional financial resources are not needed to implement this law. However, volunteering brings in itself a number of benefits which, for society, for the community and for the individual volunteers who cannot and should not be financially shown, are certainly both the importance and value of this law and the activities that it will encourage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46677	The next club of representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46678	Thank you, Vice-President of HS, it is clear from all of the exhibitions that we have had so far to talk today about a positive regulation in the Republic of Croatia that we will agree on as a majority of clubs and in fact perhaps, together, finally improve a very valuable area of action. In the beginning, I will say that the SDP Club supports the proposed changes and additions of the Volunteership Act in the first reading because they represent a policy of continuity and continue to be the latest changes in 2013. We are pleased that the Proposer recognises the importance of volunteering and as a way of acquiring competence, skills, experience and knowledge, but we would like to see further development and some mechanisms that will be able to evaluate volunteering in further education and employment as basic competences, but also a springboard for all volunteers, and especially young people who are already facing very high unemployment and the need for continuous completion that imposes the market. The objective of amending and supplementing this Act is to bring it into line with the current situation in the field of volunteering and to remove existing obstacles to the application of the current law. It is extremely important to stress that such a proposal was created in cooperation with the civil sector, i.e. volunteer centres, four of them, as well as the National Committee for Volunteering Development. Furthermore, the SDP Club considers it extremely important that the proposed amendments facilitate the application of the laws to volunteers, improve the efficiency of future calls by the National Committee for Volunteering Development, as talks with some of the members pointed to the fact that they have been difficult to meet and gather and that they simply need new replacement mechanisms in order to make them work better. These changes create a more favourable volunteering environment and contributes to increasing the level of active participation of citizens in society. World and European experiences show that volunteering is an area that is rapidly developing and actively living. He needs easy and quick adjustments. Perhaps we have waited too long for these changes to the law since 2013. Therefore, we at the SDP Club consider it an important law to make it more pro-pulsive, to change it in certain parts that make it difficult to implement new initiatives in volunteering. This is a roof law on volunteering and the basic principles of volunteering, conditions, rights, duties are regulated. This is why we want to point out the importance of volunteering for the development of a modern and progressive democratic society in which each individual has the right and responsibility to make a contribution in which such a contribution is valued. Is it priced enough in the Republic of Croatia? Although we are talking about concrete amendments to the law, this is why the opportunity to look generally at volunteering and volunteers whose role in the well-being and progress of society has often not been sufficiently recognized. The very notion of volunteering refers to the various activities that a person performs without financial compensation and without coercion and invests in them his spare time, his skills, his knowledge and effort and for the benefit of others or for the benefit of society as a whole. One of the basic values of democracy is citizens, precisely citizens who are actively involved in all areas of social action. Being active and responsible are the basic virtues of every citizen, but also of organizations that involve volunteers in their work. When we volunteer, we become more sensitive to others, otherwise, we become stronger in the decision to create changes in society and build sustainable development of society. In our understanding volunteering is mostly associated with direct assistance from others, which is like voluntary work in homes for older people, disabled societies, youth associations, but there are many other forms of volunteering, such as public space editing, environmental protection actions, multi-week thematic camps in the country and abroad, helping organisations of cultural events, sports activities, in fact everything that includes free time of citizens and leisure, especially young and older people. Today I would especially like to stress my gratitude to all organisations and institutions that coordinate and implement volunteer actions to help citizens whose homes died in an earthquake in Zagreb in March and in Banovina in December last year. They all gather volunteers with the aim of providing physical assistance in the management and repair of damaged homes and courtyards, supporting experts in demolition and repairs, helping citizens to ensure the necessary living conditions, such as chopping wood, food, medicines and other basic physical jobs. More and more volunteer organizations are helping the victims of earthquakes, especially children, as well as all those families whose homes died in the earthquake. Special assistance is provided by volunteers on the ground to old and powerless citizens, mostly doctors. Also very often, especially in crisis situations which unfortunately we have witnessed for the past year in Croatia, there is also informal volunteering that is driven by individuals and different citizens' initiatives. It is equally important and very valuable for each community, but not covered by the law, the law applies only when it comes to formal volunteering. And it has been shown that the system with the resources it has and the way it has them cannot respond adequately and in due time to disasters. Maybe he can't react fast enough, maybe formal volunteering for formal volunteering is the biggest problem in times of crisis, it's the fact that there's no crisis regulation that lifts the slowness of procedures because in times of crisis, everything should be very fast, very active, and not that we're stuck because of red tape. This is exactly the kind of situation we have witnessed during the last months and last year in these crisis areas when we talk about the area of Zagreb and the area of Banovina. We therefore believe in the SDP that this form of human activity that in principle promotes some of the higher values and perhaps, in our society, is slightly extinct by what some indicators show, so we should evaluate it as much and raise it as possible as possible as our society's greatest values, we should show that not everything in value of money is easy to earn, but that we can have compensation for voluntary work in other ways. In principle, we believe that it is necessary to approach the younger population so that younger people who volunteer that their competences, skills and skills they have acquired can be applied in further education, lifelong learning and employment. Volunteering is a valuable segment of action and society, and we care that volunteering is regulated in a legislative sense in the best possible way. So Croatia on the one hand has a rich experience in volunteering, but we keep in the SDP club that it needs to be further developed and adapted to a wider social context. In this sense, we welcome all the changes that volunteering will make even more transparent, which will deburocratise it and promote it in society. However, while the work of volunteers outside Croatia is highly recognised and valued and sought and represents an important and almost every basis for the recruitment or acquisition of diplomas, this is unfortunately not yet the case in the Republic of Croatia. So, formal volunteer work in employment is not worth it today, but rather encouraging the fact that in recent times informal evaluation has been making it more and more important for potential employers who view such activity as valuable, most often in the private sector. What institutions should definitely be working on, and when we talk about institutions then I think about the state system, society is generally a promotion of volunteering. We're not a country without experience, I've already said that, but we certainly have a space to improve volunteering, especially that space exists because people have a positive attitude towards volunteering and volunteers. We must promote it among young people, we hope that between the two readings the Government will hear some of our proposals that I will say just a few sentences, and perhaps a little later in an individual debate. Therefore, outside Croatia it is common for companies to encourage and enable employees to participate in socially useful actions during their working hours, perhaps we could apply this at least to the system of state administration in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps we should regulate the evaluation of volunteering in employment or other activities, such as health care and social services. Valuation. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46679	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the national minority on behalf of which the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46680	There is a law before us that touches a subject that I know quite well about, and that's volunteering. For example, during a certain period of my life, I’ve been out of a job for a relatively long time, and I volunteered a lot, but I’ll talk about it later. First of all, I'd like to highlight a few things about the bill itself that I think are good and I want to commend them. The highest part of the amendments and additions relate to EU harmonisation and language improvement, but there are also several significant news. For example, new provisions prohibit the organisation of volunteering in persons who have certain circumstances. Thus, it is no longer possible to volunteer for the provision of services to children, persons with disabilities, older and powerless persons or patients if they are willing to volunteer, they are required to be treated and treated for addiction and the like. Also, volunteering with those groups is prohibited for those who are legally convicted or prosecuted for certain acts involving, among others, sexual abuse, exploitation of children, acts against sexual freedom, acts against marriage, family, children, etc. What I particularly appreciate is that it is added to prohibit volunteering, which would completely replace the work of employees. Also, it will no longer be allowed to volunteer for more than 38 hours a week for a period of more than 3 months, without interruptions of at least 3 months. I think it's extremely important to prevent the use of volunteers from practically working for free. Because it is not rare for organisations or companies to use unpaid workers to volunteer and thus gain free labour. The work must be paid and it is known what volunteering implies and must not happen that someone spends full-time working for months free. As I mentioned at first, for years I was a volunteer, especially during a period of work and then I saw situations like those where you have highly paid individuals who projects related to the Roma community are implemented thanks to Roma volunteers who wouldn't even get a sandwich for their entire day's engagement. Some have also spent weeks and months volunteering while at the same time someone else would receive wages or compensation using volunteer work to collect data or analyze them. So I repeat once again, it is good to regulate the extent to which volunteering can be, or where the limit to which it will not be considered to be, volunteering and when what should be paid, or called work, starts. In my social and political engagement, I also met numerous volunteers, whether Roma, or members of other nations. This opportunity would have been used to thank them for their efforts and engagement especially as regards recent elemental disasters, whether it was floods in Slavonia a few years ago, whether it was last year's earthquakes, we saw, for example, Bania how much volunteering means and how important it is in certain situations. I would also like to stress that volunteering should not be a way to address the burning issues of the Roma community. The problems facing the Roma must be addressed in a coordinated manner, through the state or its institutions. Units of local self-government and Roma communities themselves, and on top of that, a volunteer should come along as some kind of fine frosting that helps further. But my gratitude goes not only to them but to all those who work and help through different associations or NGOs. There are very different areas dealing with fighting for children's rights, national minorities, patients, animals, older and powerless but all common goodwill and a great heart. And therefore another, thank them very much on their behalf and on behalf of the club of national minorities whose support they certainly have. But I think that there are not enough words of gratitude and that everything remains on it, but I think that our task is to make their job and field of action as much easier as possible, so the regulations governing volunteering are of great importance and we need to pay attention to them. But he wouldn’t want me to just talk about what volunteering should be or should not be, but he would also want to say something about why I consider it important. I think volunteering provides additional potential for social development especially when citizens and organisations from the civil, public and business sectors connect. As I mentioned earlier, it is precisely this synergy that is crucial for a successful outcome, and it is crucial that the energy invested does not run out of results. Volunteers have one strong importance, not to say an invaluable role in the formation of values, solidarity, reciprocity, trust and membership of individuals in the community, and it is therefore particularly important that their efforts be rewarded with a favourable outcome related to the objectives set out, and that is why the public sector and organisations must participate in the story and everyone else, precisely because the result is as successful as possible because if you have a volunteering that is ultimately not successful despite the fact that less people want to try to volunteer. Volunteering contributes to peace and development, creating well-being for people and their communities, and this is the moment that is difficult to express in some numbers, but it is more about feeling in society. Also, the well-being of volunteering feels the very volunteer through personal development, which is no less important than what I mentioned earlier. Each of us is part of the community, part of society, and as such we have a need, and perhaps sometimes a commitment to contribute to society beyond what we normally do. Volunteering is exactly what we say in society and make ourselves better people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46681	Thank you. We will now move to individual debates, and the first one will speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46682	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to start with what I ended up with earlier, and that is to look at these concrete legislative changes and some open issues as to how these legislative changes could improve to further benefit volunteers. So the first thing I find controversial is art. 12., its section 2. which says that no volunteering is allowed for more than 38 hours a week for a period of more than 3 months without interruptions of at least 3 months, which is clear. But after that, we have a supplement that says, as well as a long or continuous execution of volunteer jobs that would otherwise represent payment contractual relations. So it's unclear whether this long-term and continuous, whether it's referred to earlier what's regulated or whether it's something third that we're just not defining in ourselves enough. So, what's long-term, is it a month, two, three, a year? What's continued, is it one year in continuity, is it four months in continuity? So, especially when we consider that this applies to payment contractual relations because here is the greatest possibility of abuse of volunteer practice for the purpose of obtaining material gain. So this part was to be unequivocally defined in the law so that it could not be interpreted arbitrarily by the employer and at the expense of volunteers. The second question concerns St. 4 which says it is forbidden to exploit and abuse volunteers for the purpose of obtaining or increasing profits or obtaining personal benefit. The first question is how to punish it, do we have inspections and have they even recorded such abuses so far, and to what extent can we see whether this item should be defined more closely? The second question is, on the basis of which infringement provisions are laid down, because we find St. 5 in the law, which says, a fine of 20,000 to 200,000, so one large scope, will punish the organiser of volunteering who, by volunteering, replaces the work carried out by workers in accordance with the law governing working relations and then also abuses volunteers for the purpose of obtaining or increasing profits or obtaining personal benefit. How much profit, in what way, what exactly would that abuse be? So, if someone volunteers, which is a profit institution, whether it's always a violation or there's a certain form of regulation of that relationship, so these are the articles that I find insufficiently undefined which in this sense could be made more quality here in the second reading so that we have a clearer situation for both employers and volunteers. The second thing I want to say is the contribution to establishing a system of volunteering in crisis situations where it is already in the 2017 report. By 2019 it was warned that more active and coordinated work by the resolution bodies of the units of local and regional self-government and the non-profit sector is needed to further develop the area. However, this did not happen, and then we saw that situation in Banovina saved by volunteers whose status was not regulated, which were not recognised by the ruling structure. Just remember how volunteers in the catering sector reacted, so those who came there to cook for the victims and how they were under quotes, and not so metaphorically, but I'll leave them under quotes, kicked out of Banovina for the benefit of "Pletter" who got a job past the competition instead of recognising their work because the fellow citizens must have recognized it, but then adequately honored it. In that sense it is necessary and I will conclude with this because unfortunately there is no more time, mentioning another important thing, which is that it is in accordance with the Law on Volunteering in Art. 32. Volunteering organizer is obliged to provide volunteers or volunteers with professional illness and consequences of the accident during volunteering in the event of volunteering in the conditions of life and health of a volunteer or volunteer and when so agreed. Unfortunately, we also had injured volunteers in Banovina. There's a big difference here between formal and informal volunteering. If someone logs into the system and gets hurt or gets hurt, it needs to be compensated. Let's hope this isn't about serious injuries, but volunteers need to know that they have their rights here and that the law protects them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46683	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46684	Thank you. Dear counterpart Selak Rasdic, a 20-year-old Croatian county survey showed that there is a generally positive personal attitude towards volunteering, but at the same time, respondents believe that their environment has a negative attitude towards volunteering. With the distance from those 20 years do you think that attitude has changed, do you think that we as a society have done everything we can to volunteer enough and to change it all together for the better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46685	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46686	I'm afraid it's not really social-recognized volunteering. If you see the report for the two-year period is very short and refers more or less to the usual activities as it has awarded annual awards etc. and some of the principles, which shows that even the board does not have enough to do, and even the number of meetings, but that is not the problem of this committee, but is the problem of a system that did not involve volunteering as a quality social contribution that goes, and I will also point it out again to the benefit of society, but also to the benefit of volunteers. So not all material compensation. Volunteering can also be recognised through internships and through some other benefits from travel and further to make it more acceptable in society, we will have more volunteers and will profit society, but also those individuals. In that sense, I think that almost no step has been made, and we are looking at EU statistics. We see that we can do much better. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46687	Dear Representative Simicevic, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46688	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We have distinguished colleagues here on the one hand volunteers, volunteer centres, and on the other hand we have civil society. Do they match, have similarities, and where are they, where are the differences and does civil society seem to show you a tendency to take over dominance in public space because of certain interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46689	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46690	Within civil societies, it is largely volunteering, or within different associations of non-profit organisations. However, what is interesting to note if someone looks closely at who volunteers most in Croatia, then we really have one situation, so I am not saying this as an interested party, but as someone who was also perhaps surprised by the data, that it is not enough in the minds of citizens or in the media to say the largest number of volunteer hours and volunteering comes from Catholic associations. So these are people who are willing to cooperate free of charge and give their work for the common good. And also here is an organization that is publicly perceived as right or conservative in the name of the family that is very far ahead. It is public perception that civil society associations are those who work for the benefit of society, most often those who belong left spectrum. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Statistics show different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46691	Thank you. The Republic also has a respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46692	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues Selak Rasudiæ and you, like many, many colleagues and colleagues today, have made the difference between formal and informal volunteering in this debate. So I don't think that's developed enough in the minds of our citizens either, let's just say, that's a different concept. When we follow statistical data then we follow statistical data exclusively for this organized formal form of volunteering. And then these statistics, as the State Secretary replied to the replica today, say that in 2020 we recorded 25% reduction in organized volunteering, which is simply not to believe that in the year in which we had such crises and in which people rose we actually have a reduction. And it's actually that black part of that so-called. non-formal volunteering which we might give more attention to. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46693	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46694	Yes, unfortunately I'm not sure, the EU monitors separate statistics so it has for Croatia, but it is very similar. So, I'm not sure how many people we have at all when they fill that statistics and the difference of formal and informal volunteering, and we've seen that they have a certain problem and with delivering reports from different volunteer organisations that aren't penalized because it was also a recommendation from the competent authorities, it should actually be a positive practice, so we can't have the exact data. In 2020, yes, I was also looking at the general fall at all levels. On the one hand, we had epidemiological measures and reduced activity in general in society. So I believe it's also reflected in volunteering. Let's say for one thing, the most important thing in the statistics is the reconnaissance of scouts, so there are different debates and other associations, and the activities have not been maintained at all. But on the other hand, there is also this system that is informal and that is not recognized, and it should be and which might then change that statistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46695	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46696	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, here we all are now, so we are about to face problems, we know that the system of volunteering in the Republic is defined by the existing 2007 Volunteering Act with the change in 2013. And I will return briefly to the available data from the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy on organised volunteering, and I will only slightly repeat the figures. So starting in 2009, as a zero year or starting point, whether, in 2010, we had 13.992 volunteers with 725,680 hours of volunteering, so in 2019 we would be at 64,280 from 3 million 43,954 hours of volunteering and when, as Madam Secretary of State has given us the data we see and compare it to 2020 then we can see that in 2020 it was indeed the year in which we have the situation that we have 5% less received volunteering reports, by 25% the number of volunteers reported and by 7% the number of hours of volunteering. If we look at last year, it's been a difficult year, so we see a stagnation, difficult because of the specificity of the pandemic of the Covida-19 virus, and then an additional earthquake, and indeed, when we look at these crashes in percentages, I agree with all who are therefore discussing and, as an important problem, cite so-called. The gray zone and therefore informal volunteering, I called it the gray zone and we certainly need to take more account of it. Similarly, if we look at where everything is volunteering and what kind of volunteer jobs are being done, we can, of course, talk about a whole series of positive examples, different volunteers who are engaged in different profiles of organizers and volunteers, but we still have to notice that the largest number of volunteers are involved in the work of civil society organisations. So I think we should work on including volunteers in volunteer work in institutions like homes for older and powerless, homes without, for children without parental care, hospitals, especially in the conditions we have, etc. What I have already put through my replicas is the volunteer centres that I consider a significant segment of volunteer infrastructure, are they, and they are actually supporting the organisation of general volunteering and therefore I think it is very important that this legislative proposal is more precisely defined by volunteer centres, first of all because they exist, but the existing law does not recognise them at all. - Mrs. Crescent. The Secretary of State informed us that in 2020, the Resord Ministry financially supported a total of 33 volunteer centres, of which 28 local and 4 regional ones, and therefore, I believe that this proposal will address this issue in more detail, in particular I think that it is an important emphasis on the volunteer centre's programmes, in ways of financing it, emphasising the concept of volunteer coordinators that I consider to have a significant role to play. What is expected to contribute to the adoption of these amendments and additions will also make it easier to implement all the initiatives in volunteering, but what I still find extremely important is to put emphasis on volunteering and volunteering as an important link between our society. To promote, therefore, campaigning, promoting volunteering as a noble activity that ennobles both volunteers and users, right? Certainly to include volunteering, initiatives not only civil society organisations but also other institutions and to adequately valorise volunteer work through various additional... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46697	Thank you. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46698	Dear colleague Bedekovic. We often witness that when it goes down, let's say, when there's not enough money to treat sick children, etc., that organizations that even raise awareness, but also collect these money. In this sense, since it is often the general case that parents of sick children or patients themselves are dealing with themselves, very seriously, and yet they do not arrive because of their business obligations by promoting awareness of a particular disease and helping patients and information, how to avoid the error that is happening so that they are replacing the work of the system and doing so voluntarily instead of either financing them or that the system assumes that responsibility on itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46699	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46700	Yeah. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. This is an extremely important issue, but also an extremely important problem, I say again and again, in circumstances where we are from pandemics, earthquakes, etc. to general problems in the system, not only in the health care system but also in the social care system. Voluntary work is extremely important and extremely noble, but we cannot concentrate on volunteer work as a substitute for the work of professionals, who are primarily the first to be competent and invited to work with specific categories of population, therefore it is very important to invest in human resources, it is very important to provide financial resources for additional employment of experts and also to take care of their dissipation so that they can become more competent in their work. Especially when it comes to social workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46701	Thank you. The replica of the honest representative Šimičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46702	I'd like to thank the vice president of HS, dear colleagues. Here, we are witnessing that volunteers have shamed us many times in the community, doing good deeds of love and kindness without asking for any compensation. Do you think that we as a society, as a community, are making enough promotions to raise awareness of most of our citizens who are volunteers in the community because compared to other developed countries in the world, there are more volunteers at a price than civil society again who are connected to certain political activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46703	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46704	Thank you very much, colleague. So, first of all, I will say that Croatians are a traditional human people, a traditional people who know, and washes and bountifully provides help to each other and in this sense the tradition of volunteering and volunteering in Croatia, as I said, since 2007, and then the changes in the law lasts, develops, volunteering develops, but I do not think that we have further promoted volunteering as an activity, as an activity that enlarges, not only volunteers but also users, and I believe that we still do not have to work on it, promoting volunteering in young people, and therefore that this very effort and time invested in volunteering is returned to them in a way that volunteering work is recognised through various other activities professionally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46705	Thank you. The Republic also has a respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46706	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. I believe that you have experience in the system, and as former Secretary of Staff, you are familiar with a number of institutions where volunteers were present and in fact I am in a way sorry when we take about the zero point in the Republic of Croatia in 2008 or 2009. as a start to observe volunteering in Croatia, it is actually quite different. I will give you just one example of the Special Hospital for Chronic Diseases of Children in Upper Bistra where we all know very well that the first group of volunteers from Italy arrived in 1998, in 2000 already established a permanent camp and those on an annual level come to hang out with children and that is one of their ways of life. They come in August 200th, they actually create a special atmosphere there, and at the same time we have 200 volunteers over the year, but we don't value them, we don't value them enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46707	Thank you. Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46708	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I'll agree with you, I'll agree with you. So, the monitoring of the volunteering system in the years you've listed, and I agree with that, so it's started since then. When we compare ourselves with some other countries, we really need to work a lot more, but I argue that the Resort Ministry is really doing a lot of work and a lot of its hours and a lot of its competences are investing precisely in coordination with volunteer centres, co-ordination of all events, so it is worth ultimately funding through various projects. We have the information that last year's funding is 33 volunteer centres, which is local, which is regional, but I agree that all together and the resolution ministry, but we all as a society have to work on the awareness of the importance of volunteering.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46709	Thank you. Now they will speak the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46710	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear secretaries and associates, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Volunteering with the aim of legal empowerment of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia on the one hand and legal harmonisation with EU legislation, which is also proof of its compliance. The passing of this law aims to contribute to a simpler implementation of volunteering, to facilitate the work of a volunteer centre and to identify their activities and what is most important to enable greater protection of children and other sensitive groups, which is also a recommendation from the Ombudsman for children, without which volunteering would not meet the primary objective, which is the educational role of our young citizens. This proposal for a law through 37 articles is governed by legal legislation. I commend the editors of this law for a clear understanding of the proposed law. To remind ourselves, the International Volunteering Day was declared December 17, 1985, and since then, every year on December 5th is the Day of Volunteering. The purpose of marking that day is that everything volunteers do to make it visible at local, national and international level and examples of good practice for individuals who have managed to fit their work for general good in their daily lives have arrived at all their planned jobs. Such volunteers are an incentive for young people to get involved in volunteering. We know that saying, who wants to find a way, and so do our volunteers who want to always find ways to volunteer. To understand the role of volunteering, it is necessary to understand the essential features of volunteering, which is volunteering, solidarity and unemployment. So it's done without any orders or coercion, it's done exclusively out of the desire to help people in need and out of compassion for people to make them happier at that point and unpaid means anyone who wants to be a volunteer can't ask for any reward for it. What does society get by volunteering? It raises young people, creates new values for the development of social solidarity and social inclusion of young people, better and better quality life, greater responsibility for the needs of society, and we clearly create and develop a more human society. I will, given the time, highlight only two things, which are important for volunteering for our young people. During the years of work I spent in a system of education and education, I met extraordinary young people, smart people who helped people in need of peer solidarity, young people who went to visit children's wards in the hospital, homes for older and powerless, or collected certain money for the treatment of their friends and peers from school, and here until this unfortunate earthquake hit Zagreb and Banovina, where our students were also actively involved in helping and sorting out collected assistance. In Zadar, we have a remarkable “Vukovar for Gifts ” action that could not be realized without young volunteers. I also want to thank the teachers and teachers here who, in addition to all their duties, are the holders of individual school activities. He would certainly like to highlight the role of a resolute ministry that encourages and monitors volunteer actions in educational institutions. As a community, we need to strongly encourage volunteering because that way we will get young sensitive people and make society better and better for life. And the other thing I wanted to say here is a ban on doing certain activities for people who are convicted of pedophilia. In order to avoid the risk of repetitive offences, this law should allow a natural person convicted of a criminal offence to be permanently prevented from dealing, dealing and being in contact with children. This law also prescribes certain penalties, and we need to do everything possible to ensure that such individuals never reach out to children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46711	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46712	Dear fellow Simičević, here you have asked, I will now ask you, how do you interpret the fact that if we look at official statistics and by the number of volunteers and by the number of hours done in the political interpretation, the right activist scene is ahead, while the perception of the public is just the opposite, so the left hand is the one that determines civil society and gives the most to society under quotes free of charge? So that's one of my questions, and the other question is how to prevent the abuse of volunteering at the expense of young people who are not adequately paid for their first trainee steps and are often exploited by their work on the benefit of the employer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46713	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46714	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, Your Honor. Here's me from the second question, I can't really understand people, which are in the volunteering system that I can exploit young people in any way, especially to make a certain profit. Unfortunately, we are different and simply some people cannot resist the challenge and obviously we as a society should invest more energy in the selection of people who will work with young volunteers and who will set a good example for good things. And as for this other question of yours, that volunteer services or civil society are right orientations, so you wouldn't want to offend anyone here in any way, perhaps because people believe. He who believes always has a choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46715	Thank you. The Republic also has a respected representative, Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46716	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you, from your work experience and as head of high school, you've worked a lot with young and mature people. Do you really believe through this working age that it is a mature Croatian society or a left spectrum of activity that enters young people, which is your experience in that part of your action?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46717	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46718	Thank you, Vice President. Well, look, I think the best we have in the community are young people, and it's very important to what extent we adults can be an example to them. Adult people think they've been through certain life experiences and maybe they've acquired some bad habits that aren't always good enough to show themselves to young people. But what I can say by working in a system of education and education that we Croats have extraordinary young smart people who love their family, love their community, love their homeland, and that is why we must do everything that possibly some irregularities and bad things have in the community to remove them not because of us adults, there is no help, but precisely because of these young people who will tomorrow be the bearers of all activities in the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46719	Thank you. Replica of respected MP Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46720	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, as an educational worker, you certainly emphasized everything that means volunteering for young people, and through the educational system and all that it means to them, but also to the whole community. And certainly it's important that this training and encouragement to help, to socializing, to contacts from the earliest days, from kindergarten, and then through high school and beyond, and also to volunteering and that helping, let's say mercy, because colleague Selak emphasized it through statistics where Catholic organizations are adept at volunteering, certainly learning families. Why is perception such a thing, probably because it's deliberately, like any other phenomenon in society, depicting the right conservative scene as something that's negative?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46721	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46722	Thank you, thank you. A respected colleague, so that these right options are always attributed to things that don't stand. We, I don't think there should be any difference between left and right, our goal is to build our homeland as best possible and make people living in it happy and proud and because, as Croats, because they love their homeland, clearly and so that we can be an example of others how we can arrange what's right. The system of education and education is an area where you really have beautiful young people who will do anything for people in need. They are so sensitive to the problem that you simply have to for some time and respond to the desire they show us to make your friend and peer happy at a certain point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46723	Thank you. Replica of Honored Representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46724	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, you, as a longtime educator and director of high school in Zadar, spoke about the role of the system or you put emphasis on the role of the system of education, both in promoting volunteerism and in encouraging young people to volunteer and I am glad that you have put emphasis on this very educational, educational function of the school that everyone today thinks is a little missing and that school is losing its educational function. And so here's your opinion and the answer to the question of how school and educational workers through which all kinds of educational activities can affect the incentive of young people to volunteer as one noble activity, but on the other hand, how can school as an institution affect prevention The exploitation and abuse of the work of young people... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46725	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46726	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, dear colleague, that I like to say that only a good man can be a good teacher and a breeder and a mechanic and anything. So it is very important that our young fellow citizens feel the warmth with which certain teachers, teachers, teachers solve the problem. Yes, unfortunately lately I guess under the burden of being the first, being the best maybe the educational role in school has been suppressed, but we really need everything to restore the educational role. So school is a educational institution, we raise people and educate people and we want them to be the best of them, but also to feel sensitivity towards the community and people. In trouble. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46727	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Ante Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46728	Dear Vice-President, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues, surely to amend and supplement this Voluntary Law and volunteers is very important that the committee shows that it is the consciousness of all members of the board that it is something that is very necessary at the moment, that the whole system is put through institutions and that it is in the form of an institution. Looking at volunteering over the last 30 years, we can say to some extent that in European countries it may be better shown, that it is, and precisely because through institutions it has its own measure. In the Croatian state in the last 30 years and during the Homeland War at the beginning, it was shown how conscious all our people were at the time about volunteering, about help. Through the various natural disasters that have been happening to us since the floods, the fires, unfortunately in the last year of the earthquake, the virus, where people show this one honesty of that volunteering that has no limits. We must be aware that the Red Cross carries that one whole in numbers of size, but surely today in society, not today, but in the former state of the Catholic Church has a primate of first places safe in volunteering young people, a general measure of the Catholic Church throughout its history is certainly a great volunteering. Today we have experience of what we really show in our Salesians, Jesus, here we really have where we can see one spectrum of young people from, who show one force of volunteering in all segments of that community of Croatian society. This is what we can certainly do, a culture of recognizability of the Croatian community. Our society must get awareness of volunteering, help, it has it as a whole, we at these years have shown as a society that it exists, that it has. However, institutions must give one measure of visibility, and we have seen this in particular, here we can not go into further history, in an earthquake where volunteers came from Bed Blue Boys, our cheerleading groups which today must be one measure and speed, the strength of that youth. Youth is always that, young people have no limits especially in creating all these segments of value. They came first to places where man is most needed. That's why we have to be aware and work in our schools. I don't think that it's civil, that the civil society of the left spectrum may be a little too prominent in our society that's left over from the former system, they have one form of media power, but I'm sorry, here I call on all my colleagues and colleagues it would be nice to stop by and visit the Salesians at Jarun, n Princess to see how these priests work, in which way volunteering is infinite, beautiful and where man really remains not only in the spirit of faith, but in the spirit of a civil society of visibility, in which one society can be built in its entire segment. I think that in the last 30 years, the Croatian people have shown that there is one human being, it is certain that we have been through one pain, and that is since the Homeland War, which has brought an unfounded feeling when you are weak, powerless, but on the other hand, one size of strength to help a man. Everything that's happened is very important. It's a culture we build through our history. This initiative is good, it shows that we are a mature society, a society that needs to be built on. Surely, in the future, the educational system must come into the range of showing and already through training to young people to show the need and strength of help. And when the need and strength of help is shown, it is then for a young man and in maturity gives one recognizableness that we do not share in some spectrum whether these particular organizations are better or worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46729	We have two replicas. She is a real respected representative, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46730	I agree, this is not a competition at all, it is only a social recognition and valorisation of everyone's volunteer work adequately, depending on how much someone volunteered, regardless of what spectrum they belonged to, and often because of their own prejudices, it is not the case. As you interpret the fact perhaps in public it is not known enough that one who in times of crisis was a flood in Vukovar-Srijem County or, for example, now with earthquakes, who stops volunteers who help them most and who works above their capabilities or prescribed work is, for example, the Croatian Army. So it was she who showed how to work for volunteers and who was beyond what should be her job that gave the maximum of her capacity to help now the victims of the earthquake in Banovina, and even before in these crisis situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46731	Thank you, dear colleague. Well you are absolutely right, the Croatian Army may be the most organized institutional organization and they are those who have all the power to help and in all these situations unfortunately which were happening the Croatian Army is through the institution, and that is what the Croatian Government is, the Croatian Army was in the institutional part of the first to be helped with one spectrum we can say that it was an institution safe and that this is the strength of the institution. On the other hand, you had various organizations of society, defense associations that were, the Red Cross, various Catholic organizations that were on the spot in accordance with this Croatian Army organisation, but therefore this law is important for other organisations through institutions to show strength and power to help volunteer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46732	The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46733	Dear colleague. You said yourself that empathy and solidarity and concern should not be shared as citizens. I'm afraid what we're doing here, too, and maybe even a colleague is doing it right now. We need to know that civil society and civil society associations don't have a roof organization like the church, that they're more movement or more initiatives, so we need to understand that it's not the same 40 days to stand in front of the hospital and advocate maybe something that's important to someone, but someone isn't also red noses and be in the hospital and work with children, so there's no need to abuse even volunteering for politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46734	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46735	Thank you, dear colleague. Sure, well you said we're all here at HS to testify to a part of what we've been chosen for. Each of us recognizes society through something that is very important to him. Certain civil associations show this in their own way, but associations through the Catholic Church are very important, which throughout history hold the power of the Croatian people, who have held on volunteering this country's love that has failed to be killed throughout its history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46736	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46737	Once again, the esteemed chairman and respected secretary of state. In the introduction, I asked you about the committee itself and in Art. 21. A board of 19 members and we heard the answer so the deputies are wanted precisely because sometimes there were no quorums in the sessions. I wish you could finally tell us what the members who didn't come, whether it's the bodies or whether it's the members of the representatives of the just volunteers of civilian associations or centres, so it's clear when we do something like that that, then we know why we're looking for deputies because in all the working bodies that I've been to most often she's so-called. interested public, this time the associations were always regular, and those who nominated different state bodies they probably sometimes because of obligations, sometimes because they didn't have an intrinsic motivation might have chosen them there, they didn't come. So you should know if we're doing something that wasn't the one who didn't come on board regularly. And that's what I'm saying because something's about to change right now that I don't think will benefit civil society, and I'm afraid you misunderstood me a little bit, but in the situation and because of my colleagues, I'll tell you how it is. In the current law, 6 representatives were public authorities, 7 representatives of civil society organisations, 6 independent experts from whom 3 were proposed by civil society organisations, and 3 units of local and regional self-government, so a total of 10 representatives from civil society and 9 proposed by the public sector. According to the current amendments, we would now have 10 representatives of the public sector body and 6 representatives of civil society. Volunteer organizers and 3 independent experts who again propose the public sector, not civil society. So we would have a total of 13 representatives of the public sector and 6 representatives of civil society, so from 19, 13:6 it's not just about voting. Why the ratio has increased in favour of the public sector body, and it has reduced those who are doing the work and who should advocate not only a better position of the associations, not only the better position of the centres but they decide, so the Committee decides on the award of a state volunteering prize, gives initiatives to adopt or amend the rules governing volunteering, adopts an ethical code of volunteering, undertakes other activities for the development of volunteering, implements and measures of activities set out in this law, etc. Also, the public sector will indeed re-vote volunteers, so representatives of civil society in the elections, for example. The president. Why wouldn't the president be someone who's a representative of civil society? We therefore believe that the proposal for a provision is not democratic, it is in fact extremely undemocratic, so it will not be guaranteed an equal decision, so it is not only a matter of voting but of deciding on the policies themselves, and here the public sector will play a crucial role and we really believe that there is a need to increase the number of representatives of those who have organised themselves as volunteers and who have certainly more to say than representatives, I will read to you from the law as representatives, so Article. 21, the board has 19 members, one representative or one representative of the competent authority, so the gender, one representative of the Office for Associations, one representative of the Office for Human Rights, one representative of the National Foundation, one representative of the Central Authority of the State, seven representatives of civil society organisations. So we think that here should be changed in a way that really those who can improve the system, that they at least through the dog board can influence it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46738	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46739	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you a question about the problem we discussed on the parent board as well. During volunteering, of course depending on species, on the length of volunteering, volunteers in one informal way acquire a certain type of competence and length of volunteering, we have an increase in these competences, whether I see the volunteer library as an informal diploma, informally acquired whether, very valuable competences that can later and need to be included in volunteer work experience, therefore not a work experience, but a work experience. My question, of course, should be an additional point in future employment, with a future employer, etc. However, there is, of course, the fact that we employers cannot be forced to consider it. The question, how and how can we motivate them and encourage them to consider volunteering? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46740	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46741	Thank you. You know that we've talked about it, and while it might be possible to make some point system, means students from primary school to get into colleges or colleges, the question of volunteering that we said, first of all, can't be done instead of work, we can't allow it, anyway, the work is too great for all these young people who volunteer, now I'm talking about young people. So, and I agree with you, we need to see what that means that we volunteered. But I think that you and I are employers, that if we see in CV and people write in their biographies with so formal education, writing and informally everything that they've finished, today I'm all talking about lifelong learning and writing, they have the right of course to write what they volunteered and when someone comes to a job interview, I don't think they should write in the contest, you know, between the conditions of volunteering that it's mandatory, so that we don't be discriminatory But... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46742	The next replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46743	Dear colleagues, I have listened to you with interest in the opening part of your performance and certainly agree with your position when in this great accident you have had the opportunity to come to the earthquake area in May where you as a civilian have noticed immediately that the problem is that there are people, and I am there, all of us who have seen this disturbance, that there is a need for coordination, and therefore we as Croatian defenders have also seen this even more on our side, but now I encourage you to articulate this request, I see that it is extremely familiar to you, so let it be formulated, the formation of a certain body in such exceptional situations and for you in the civil sector about this volunteering, we Croatian defenders have launched certain initiatives through civil protection but in any case we encourage you to do so because it is necessary, Coordination is necessary. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46744	Thank you. Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46745	Well, I'm afraid I'm not the one who's going to be able to organize it, of course, we have big organizations like the Red Cross, which is just like all the people who called and showed up, from Omis to Chakovec in the May Poles, maybe one of the first things was to organize a tent for volunteering. So, I can't do it, or any of my colleagues here can't organize it, but I'm sure there could be some mobile, say, volunteering center where they would then be changed every day at the end of the day, just like the headquarters does, information where greater needs are and, of course, it was necessary to inform all those who came as volunteers. They may not have seen themselves as volunteers, they have seen themselves as citizens who want to help other citizens, and so perhaps direct them just to keep it from being like they said, confusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46746	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46747	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I will agree with you in this work that we should really work on the composition of this committee, whether there should be so many representatives from the administration, if they should, certainly put those we often mentioned to be significant, let's say the science mentioned. But given that I won't be able to have a final on behalf of the HDZ Club for a while, I would like to stress just for a little while that when we talk in general about any kind of activity, phenomena, make sure that we don't oppose strict centralisation, and the state is centralized in all segments and we make sure that from the level of ministries of any subject and content, we won't be successful if we don't bring it down to local units, so it would be good for them to be on this board too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46748	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46749	They are and it is said that the presidents are now in the proposal and I agree with you to decentralisation, but then it may happen to us that those who have a centralized system such as the Catholic Church, let's say that it is a little bit better organized for centuries, that then statistics can be misleading to us if we haven't gathered from all the local levels all of what civil society associations have done without the signs that they are, for example. part of Catholic associations. So the statistics are often said to be misleading. And which means I don't know on behalf of the family that it's been the most volunteer hours, so, I know exactly what moments they did those volunteer hours visiblely. So I'm curious about where they are in defense I don't know the public good either on some other or on other occasions. So, I don't want to share volunteering is something that has filled my life and I believe [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that he can from other people. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46750	Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Club representative, a respected representative, Ivana Posavec Krivec, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46751	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues came forward here for the final because I ran out of time to present the position of the club of legislators on the subject of this bill, and I actually didn't get to say what we'd like to consider, and perhaps in another reading, and some of it takes into account. We all talked about the same thing here today, we all talked positively about the act of volunteering about the situation that we have in Croatia, about how many people are involved, about the system on which it is involved, about formal, informal volunteering and actually volunteering centres. It has turned out that since the last amendments to the law, there has been a valuable shift in descent and decentralisation from regional to local volunteer centres and this has proved to be good. We think that we should follow the trends that appear in the world, in Europe, in the advanced countries that we often like to compare, with progressive countries, and that we may actually need to move forward from the moment we live today and actually take attitudes that will give added incentive to young people to volunteer if they are not already. It's one thing that we teach kids at home and how we raise them, what values we instill in them, but if they get that kind of approach through a system of education and education, then they'll certainly be stronger and more valuable eventually. So again, we regret not being able to come to the so - called subject. Civil education, we can't come to the subject of raising people through a system of responsible society. This very training would show how much volunteering has a significant place. And so we appeal to find a mechanism that will be installed through institutions to teach children and young people about the importance of volunteering. Whether it will be through the obligation in class classes, whether it will be in the obligation of curricula through one of the subjects, whether it will be valued as an extracurricular content or as an additional activity at school, we think it is extremely important. This should begin preschool education, such as in Scandinavian countries where it is perfectly normal and ends in a way that children are monitored through their volunteering in life until the last degree of education. We do not want this final degree of education to be a high degree of education, but that children have a lifelong feeling that they should volunteer, that they should build themselves up, that they should perfect themselves and acquire new knowledge. If we were to install such a system in our society, then it would be perfectly normal for us to value the additional efforts of employees who put their free time, their knowledge and their skills into helping others, to help the most vulnerable. And then we would come up with a clear solution which is a mechanism that we can create conditions for a doctor who wants to volunteer on the ground or a building engineer who wants to examine the buildings that were injured in the earthquake not to use his annual vacation to do so voluntarily and to give himself and his knowledge to society, but to have some kind of mechanism that will enable him through the system to value it in his, in his employment or in his working relationship. We would certainly like that, when obtaining scholarships and obtaining or enrolling colleges, volunteering has value, that it can be specifically expressed, whether through additional points, whether through any additional mechanisms in obtaining a home or something, the right to a home or something, we are sure that it can exist. Finally, our intensity is very simple to ensure positive discrimination for volunteers, as worthy members of society, as members of the community whose contribution builds a solidarity society because last week we discussed the National Recovery and Recovery Plan, it is not enough for us as a mechanism of measures if we are not ready to recover the society ourselves, and volunteering is indeed perhaps the most valuable element in this segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46752	Now, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46753	The subject of volunteering and politics began, so I have to replicate because I opened it myself in some way because I interpreted the statistics that I see from the discussions, by the number of volunteers and by the number of volunteer hours, only I studied. So I made two claims. The first read official statistics, and the second found that I myself was surprised by official statistics and that public perception was different or considered free of charge, mostly members of the left civil scene. I believe that the reaction that was going towards this is not a good approach to this debate, as was the way in which my colleague Boric interpreted this as a matter of statistics itself, as well as the direction that went towards demeaning the volunteer work of members of the right civil scene, whether they were standing outside the hospital, whether they even contributed to their work by the community etc.. I did not at any time belittle the volunteer work of members of the left civil scene just to find out what statistics say and that public perception is different. I don't even say this as an interested party because I'm not interested in any volunteer organization, and I politically define myself as someone who belongs to the center space. So this is important to highlight because the truth is important and because it is important that we break mutual prejudice and recognise everyone's values in society, and that work that is often not recognized, and that volunteer work on the right-wing activist scene and the civil scene is rarely recognised and honored in society. So, and more than that, there are many who have never come to public space, such as the rabbit shelter and the wild thirsts "Mrkvica" from Zapresic, who have a huge number of volunteer hours, which is something nobody knows, 34,830 hours in one year. I'll conclude with what I consider particularly important. The first thing to do is to keep an eye on the abuse of volunteering, especially in crisis situations. Secondly, when we talk about volunteering at the time of the pandemic that volunteers have certain rights, especially when they go through formal organizations. So, if you were hurt, and you volunteered at the time of the pandemic or during the earthquake, you have the right to compensate for the damage. Third, hiring volunteers, we must never allow volunteers to replace the system. So those volunteers, such as associations for sick children, who do quality work for them system if they need additional help to recognize and approve, rather than exploit. And I'm finally going to go back to two things one more time. First, the young people need to know, and the young people in our country are most volunteering, that they have the right to compensate for their volunteering, which does not have to be material, but in terms of social recognition and volunteering, either as an additional plus in obtaining different scholarships or different jobs within the state administration is certainly an incentive to volunteer. And secondly, another problem of social exclusion. A fact that is not known in Croatian society that about 5% of people have no one to talk to or anyone who can help them at all and that number increases with age. So when we talk about over 75. that it is almost 10% of people who have no one to turn to for help, and that there is a very large gender difference, and it goes to the harm of men who have far fewer who can turn to for help than women just points to the importance of volunteering as a contribution to those who have no one else to turn to. It is therefore necessary to support these legislative changes, but also to work further on raising awareness of the volunteering system and its benefits and for the community, but I will also point out once again for individuals who engage in such volunteering.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46754	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we'll wait for a moment to be a group, and then we'll join the vote. MEETING IN 12.02 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46755	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Volunteering, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 127, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Voluntary Law and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs voted, 117 for and 1 abstention, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Opinions of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of objections against the strict measures of distance from the session submitted by MP Dalia Oreskovic. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System delivered an opinion within the time limit laid down. Article 242(7) Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 242. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of Parliament shall be decided without discussion and the right to speak shall be given only by the representative who has objected and the rapporteur of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and their speech may take 5 minutes. Does Representative Dalia Oreshkovic want to further explain her objection? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46757	Thank you, Chairman. It is very important to explain this objection, first of all because it does not discuss the Croatian Assembly in it, and then for the reason that, at the moment I opposed the ferocity of Željko Reiner as the chairman of the Croatian Parliament, there were only two, three parliamentary representatives, in the assembly itself. I mean, this isn't just about me. It is about each and every one of us, it is about dignity and the role of the Croatian Parliament, which just now Chairman Željko Reiner frequently violates. First of all, the way it refers to opposition MPs by applying double criteria when interpreting whether a representative has gone beyond the topic of debate. And what's most important here is the fact that this proposal will be discussed as the boss says, as decided by the parliamentary majority. After all, it also showed a vote within the committee itself. And I ask the question, if we take such a position today, what are we actually going to bring to the attention of the Croatian Parliament as a place that should be the central point of debate on all the important and crucial problems of the Croatian state and Croatian society? Everything I pointed out or at least tried to point out when we talked about the way the home working body proposed candidates for the National Science Council is one of the crucial issues and the Croatian state and Croatian society's crucial problems, which is corruption that permeated all the pores, which entered all the structures and all the systems and so on and into science itself. And if, from what I was saying then, the conclusion is that I've come out of the picture in any way, I'm asking if I should raise this stick of breach to the Rules of Procedure every time either one of you strays at least by a millimeter? For one word, for one sentence? For the number of tits on cows in the Cetina region? For all the jumps that each of us in the debate is trying to score or draw attention to? And I'm interested not only in the opposition, but I'm counting on it to stand on my side, but how much credibility will be in the MPs of the ruling majority that when we talk about content, when we talk about the metrics, they least have to say, and if anyone comes out of the agenda because of their unpreparedness, because they're trying to speak or within a pattern that some kind of substance or such a charlatan to talk about, that's what it is, just enough to come up for discussion, then they're HDZ's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46758	Now also the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, the respected counterpart Bošnjakovic, will explain the board's opinion, please, for the same 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46759	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that in the assembly, a lot of people actually discuss a certain point of the agenda come out of that point and it's actually a discretionary assessment of who at that point presides to warn them and bring them back, so to speak, into the subject. And that's what all MPs should actually stick to and that's our obligation because actually our goal here is to get out of this house quality and good law. But if we're going to be out of the picture, then it's questionable whether we're going to contribute to better laws than what's been proposed. In this particular case, the committee vote was, therefore, quite a majority, regardless of what policy options were there, the opinion of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the political system was voted upon. The fact that the position which has been stated and the sanctioned sanctions has been confirmed in any case has been reviewed by both the phonogram and the video footage, and this is the first orderly reminder that the colleague did not stick to and did not respond to that reminder was given a reminder by taking away the word, however, the dispute continued and then there was actually a distance from the session and after the dispute continued there was again a distance from the session in the double duration. So, here's what I can do, as board president, to invite all of us to stick together and be on the subject, because I don't know that there's ever been so much in the assembly, that there have been so many institutes where we could express this opinion and through a request for a break, so also through free speech, in the end, as political actors on the political scene we have the right to call a press conference. It's not good I think within certain points of the agenda of that institute to use here. And I think that all the chairmans who are here, from the president of the assembly to his deputies, are actually not using that institute in relation to the number of cases we actually have in the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46760	Thank you, too. We also have a request for a break, dear colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46761	Thank you, Chairman. So it is certain that the rules of the Rules of Procedure should define some rules of home order, rules of work. However, if the Rules of Procedure become such as to actually make it impossible for the right debate, then we should ask ourselves who adopted such a Rules of Procedure and what was its real purpose, which was the real intensity and the right intention? So, neither free speech nor any other form or rights of our representatives serve to speak to ourselves in the beard, we should address each other, we should also address the Croatian public. And if we stick so much to the mere form and mere subject, and I still think that I've been very much holding on to the subject in this particular case, I'm going to let that be a matter of discretionary assessment, and then I'm asking a question, and what are you HDZ actors doing, so who's raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure every time I report for a speech, knowing that that's not an injury to the Rules of Procedure? Who gets the most notice precisely because he uses this institute knowing that he uses it against the purpose for which this rule is prescribed in the Rules of Procedure? So I repeat, I don't mind you voting the way the boss has ordered you to, but I ask the question, where does the role of HS go, what is parliamentaryism all about, and what is false democracy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-23-0.u46762	The MPs will vote as they believe it is right, so I am now voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 116 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were in favour, 40 were against, and thus confirmed a strict measure in accordance with Article. 243th century 1st subst. 1. The Rules of Procedure of HS. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on a request for an opinion on an infringement. 238. HS's Rules of Procedure, submitted by MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure of the HS on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be decided without discussion. I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 116 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 4 abstentions and 36 against, have voted, thus confirmed that the chairman has not acted against the provisions of Article 36. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS.
