ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u42809	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u42810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Is this on? First, let me commend and thank Mr. Zekanovic. I expect a similar reaction from Dr. Vrkljana and Karoline Vidović Kristo, as well as from all Croatian statesmen, there is no sleep now. And I'll say, my free speech will be on the subject. If you remember I did last Wednesday by analyzing the results of the first round of elections I said I was not happy and satisfied with the good success of the platform We can in Zagreb. Unfortunately, there wasn't enough time, and I didn't have any excessive motivation at the time to talk about the reasons for my dissatisfaction. In the meantime, however, I looked at several videos and motivations to the ceiling, to the sky. Especially when I saw moments from the Zagreb Assembly when the legend of Homeland Work, one of the most remarkable persons fighting for Croatian freedom and the Croatian state, Major General Blago Zadar declares himself an honorary citizen of the City of Zagreb, and the great respected TT Tomislav Tomašević, I will call it this in the future, with the TT tension of the real TT-ac and maximum demonstration of contempt, demonstrates almost hatred for this act. I was wondering, well, hating Croatia is easy to pick up, but where did that guy get so much courage to demonstrate it in that place? A similar thought was when I watched that wave around the center of Zagreb and in the heart of Zagreb. When some hybrids Broza, Stalin and Sorosa played the Cosmic Wheel in a rock way, shouting phrases and passwords the same as their honorable predecessors shouted 76 years ago when they entered Zagreb led by Đokom Jovanovic and first from Zagreb's hospital the Holy Spirit and later from other hospitals they picked up all the wounded and beat the hammers, and after that, they were furiously continuing to kill the citizens of Zagreb because there were no Croatian armies in Zagreb, there were no Ustashas, and the natives they retreated. And just a little bit so there's some kind of, like, cemetery of Partizan crime. The shock was complete when I saw as the main plight of the Partisan woman the otherwise likable representative Bencic, who has in this assembly the good ones, but I don't know what motivated her to bring out such regrets for Broz's antifascism as some tradition of the city of Zagreb, and in fact it was a shower of the city of Zagreb and the true Croatian and Zagreb antifascism, so there were antifascistsists, there was Andrija Hebrang, there was General Shible with whom I had a chance to talk a little less than 50 years ago, he... Broz and certain parts of the Partizan movement spoke rather than me, there was Marko Oreskovic, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, Broz's antifascism is the least said, layered. In his movement there was also something antifascism but that antifascism was secondary, the primary was the struggle for power and the socialist revolution, what Lenin did in the 4th month. In 1917, when he came to Russia for the I.S. The war and said that the imperialist war should be turned into a revolution, that's what Broz did in Yugoslavia's space. And now I'm going to make a quick statement of five, six, seven details as far as I can, so, gentlemen, unmanage just one, so that we can see who Broz was and his character and work, and what is this platform really resting on? So if the 6.4th starts a war and Broz doesn't get involved in that war, Hitler attacks Yugoslavia and he's gone because that's when Stalin and Hitler are in friendship. Broz is only involved in the war on 22.6. when Hitler is likely to attack, some say likely and some preventative attacks on Stalin. So, one, I was talking to that three. Four times and I won't waste my time on Antifascist Fight Day or Uprising in Serbs 27.7., if I've proved it, no one has denied that it wasn't more than 10 natives and no one else. Did I say that Broz tried it in the third month? agree with the German command if the Allies land, to jointly defend access to the Allies? What bothers me here, not that you're antifascists but beware you who are smart, such intelligence predences today-to-morrow run the city of Zagreb and that God doesn't let us from the Homeland Movement, maybe it would have happened but I do believe, I really believe that what I see is running out of time, so I can't say 30% of what I thought, but so I'm ready with my colleagues from We can!, have a chance today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, to deny any of what I said today and what I was saying about this antifascism Which they've been standing on all this time. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u42863	The next club of MPs will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u42864	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the HS, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. The population of the Republic of Croatia next to the majority of the people, are also members of the 22 national minorities, as recognised by our Constitution. And they account for just over 7.5% of the total population, with 4.3% of the Serb community. Other national minorities are far less, and only Bosniaks cross the 0.5% threshold. We have heard many times in public, but also for this Assembly speaker how regulations governing the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are at an enviable level and that they can serve as an example to others. I can in part agree with this finding because our regulations are almost fully in line with the rules of international and European law on the rights of national minorities. However, the main and only important question is the level of implementation of the said regulations, whether certain regulations remain a dead letter on paper. There is almost no segment of action and the existence of a minority community that is not regulated, but today I will pay a little more attention to the access of national minorities to the media, i.e. public service, or to Croatian television. The same one that won an infamous category award a few days ago for lawsuits aimed at curbing critical speech and questioning of the media, reportedly being achieved with 36 lawsuits brought by HRT against its own journalists. From the perspective of national minorities, the role of the media is crucial in promoting the equality of national minorities, creating mutual tolerance and preserving the cultural and spiritual identity of members of national minorities, and it is an obligation for public media to contribute to the promotion and respect of fundamental human rights and freedoms, understanding and respect for diversity in accordance with the programme principles. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Law on HRT and the Treaty signed with the Government obliges HRT to produce, co-produce and publish programmes intended to inform members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia in the languages of national minorities, including programmes for children in the languages of national minorities. HRT has an obligation to make a report every year on which the Council for National Minorities, which does not accept HRT's reports yearly due to the devastating data. For example, all national minorities on all HRT TV programmes during 2018 were represented only one 1%. A year earlier, 0.69%. This is, of course, two shows on HRT, a total of 5 channels dedicated to national minorities, often, since these two shows are being monitored, they are talking, not really talking to national minorities, but to national minorities. As a positive example, perhaps a guideline for action can certainly serve the situation from R. Serbia on Vojvodina Radio-Television, one which, as one of the two public services in the Republic of Serbia, has been established in 2010 a minority editorial in the Croatian language, along with the editor responsible, four other editors, 4 journalists, 3 co-workers in the production of the programme and 3 lecturers. This is how the second Vojvodina Radio-Television programme broadcasts information show Dnevnik in Croatian, from Monday to Saturday at 17.45. On the Croatian language, the show "Israin", talks about current social and political topics, from 16 am, while the "Svetionik" show, which has the focus of the topic from culture, is broadcast at 16.30 p.m. Our wish and intensity, such as the Croatian national minority in R. Serbia, is given its own readmission as part of the public service of radio-television, which we certainly welcome, that the same reciprocity, if possible, is respected in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u42895	The next Club of Representatives will be the HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u42896	Dears, several messages to the ministry and the government to draft a poverty fight strategy in 2021-2025. If you are going to write essays, homework, or ordered pages of nice words with signs of problems, do not even put them together. If you are going to make a strategy without saying how many poor people in Croatia can't help themselves and who have no one to help and live below the limit of human dignity, don't waste paper. If you are not going to realistically paint the situation, define the mission and role of the social state, leave within reachable goals and determine how to achieve them, then the strategy does not make any sense to write. People already have a lot of plans and strategies, a lot of strategies of kilostates. If you're going to keep saying that the state will take care of the poor according to economic opportunities, don't write anything. Please, it's untasty, it's untasteful on a daily basis to listen and read true stories about high wages and bonuses for managing companies that have been building today's poorest work, denial and low wages. And not only is it tasteless, but it is cosmic, and in such a way this tormented nation of ours will never be freed from the sayings “from the good servant of the never good lord. ” If you want to do something please stop worrying, protect, protect your citizens from poverty, write to 10 pages who, when and how to protect. Materialize the right to life and not to any life, but to the life of a worthy man, not a dog's life. And don't write that you want to achieve the social cohesion of Croatian society in which there was no greater difference than feudalism, social differences. Retired people, like all vulnerable groups, are more unequal and poor, cannot in any way secure their own existence and should not be particularly isolated but included with specific solutions to the strategy. The fact is that among the poor are the most fragile and numerous pensioners, but no one has yet to say how many really live below Eurostat's poverty line, how many live on pension alone, how many in the married household, how many do part of the pension receive from abroad? Until we take pictures of the forms of poverty and determine dimensions, we've done nothing, we're just listening and we're looking at some statistics, and the statistics are forgiven as bikinis, revealing interesting, and hiding important. Unlike the creators and co-creators of the strategy, I personally sent to the Assembly proposals for laws that are in the role of reducing poverty for all citizens, especially pensioners. A significant increase in the price of supplementary health insurance benefits all the poor citizens, reduction of the TV tax, the benefit of all the poor citizens, and you can't pass except specific laws for the pensioners except for everyone, for all the citizens. Family pensions in another way, in a European way, pensioners of the present and future who, despite the joint internship, fall into poverty after the death of their spouse because they have the right to their or 70% of his pension. I've suggested that the penalization be abolished for the lowest pensions, the pensioners benefit. Work without suspending the lowest pensions and other restrictions is beneficial for pensioners. The benefits of accepting these legal solutions exceed the costs, and everything is done in principle or principles “do not take the poorest, give what is earned and do not punish what is the lowest, ” my contribution to healthy society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u42897	Thank you very much. That's what we're done with. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43003	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In all this craziness over the crown and earthquakes, so last summer's parliamentary elections, this spring's local elections, it's completely in the other direction that anyone in this country actually does, especially in the government who should be leading her. The only one of the weakest points is certainly the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy. The problems are getting bigger and more serious and they can't catch a connection with their own business. There's a list of things on the Ministry's website that he does the same. There are many points of various business that are valuable there, for the benefit of all of us. A total of 29 and already, when you lose a little power in front of the end, about 22 points further, shy children start to appear, special children to be fostered or adopted, children without social care and on that list, and obviously and in reality, children are the last. Because how else would we explain that there are over 3,000 children in Croatia who have no parental care? These children are located in homes for carefree children, in SOS villages and family homes or in foster families. At the same time, only about 200 children are ready for adoption, it is the result of bad laws, too long procedures, the wrong idea by which the biological family, no matter what it is, always has an advantage over everyone else, one phone call can be prevented from adopting the child annually. But if we could adopt all 3,000 children without parental care, there wouldn't be enough adoptors. They are about half the number needed, around 1500, most children who have no parental care are sentenced to childhood in homes or in foster homes. I don't mean to say that these people aren't trying hard enough or not doing well, but a stable and stable family is still something else. But for that job, out there somewhere near the end of those dots they're dealing with, the HDZ Ministry of Everything else and then family and social care, there's no time. They don't have time to deal with finding foster parents, they don't even have time to look for foster parents, they don't have time for any solution on how to adopt more children. This ministry generally doesn't have time for anything because we don't have much roses in our work, about the pension system that I don't speak at all, in social policy every little person loses their lives, whether it's about people who work in the system or someone and very often it's about children whose safety and life is dependent on making the right decision at the right time. And it's not like there's no warning. People who work in social care in Croatia are constantly reminding us that they are too few and have too many cases that cannot be devoted properly. They tell us that the equipment is outdated, education is insufficient, the laws are bad and inconclusive. None of that HDZ. their government and ministers, they don't have time but for one thing they have time for progress, an attempt to accidentally adopt one couple, one family wouldn't adopt a child, such a couple and such a family as they, from some of their own to God's worldly but, in fact, for the very ground floor reasons of political favor, don't approve. And that's why for years in this country, the ministry, social care centres and various courts have been struggling in this country to try to make random families like HDZ and their sponsors don't like to adopt a child. And now they have again found time to appeal to a court ruling that only allows one family to begin a procedure equally with the other adoptors, and in that time 3,000 children continue to grow up without having someone to kiss them good night. Well, you might be ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43074	The next club of MPs will be the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoja Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43075	In Croatia, we have been talking about Zlata Djurdjevic in recent months, and in America a year ago, we talked about Amy Coney Barrett, who Donald Trump, the former president of the United States, made Judge of the Supreme Court of the United States. And today, this Supreme Court of the United States seems to you in a way that we have six judges of conservatives and three liberal judges, and with that choice, that is, with the appointment of several judges of the Supreme Court, Donald Trump, in many, many years, has actually cemented the situation in America. In Croatia, we have a candidate Zlata Djurdjevic offered by Zoran Milanovic, but offers her in a nice way, offers her as an expert, expert, as a person who is not connected to the worldview, and even he is trying to show himself as a person who does not have a worldview who gives exclusively experts. But what people forget is a key function, one of the key functions in our country of Croatia that predestines the political direction of our country, which is the Supreme Court. Therefore I will repeat from this place the Croatian sovereigns have been and will be against this candidate, the more it will be against any election by President Milanovic, and given the man of one clear worldview of the liberal world horizon, and all those who do not understand it then are in fact the opposite worldview only hides it. Here I have to look back on our very current topic, and that's local elections. The biggest battle of all battles is in the City of Zagreb and from this place I would call on all those who have not yet decided how to vote to remember the Istanbul Convention, to remember the referendum on Istanbul which has not happened, to go to the elections not only of Zagreb and elsewhere to be a referendum on Istanbul. All those 400,000 people who signed for this referendum that never happened, here now have the opportunity to say no to one ideology, not to one candidate who is the representative of the Istanbul Convention. Look at the little association that this candidate represents, and you will see that all these associations that have settled into the second camp against my camp, my camp, the camp of Croatian sovereigns who have opposed the Istanbul Convention, so from Mrs. Bencic, Tomasevic, Rade Boric, they are so-called Istanbul because they were rooting for that document that was adopted. So the decision is clear, all those who were against this document which is very controversial now have a chance to decide whether you are for Istanbul or not. Tomasevic's vote is the vote for the Istanbul Convention. Since we have another minute of time, I'm not going to give them away and give them to HS, I'm going to repeat that thesis and starting with the Supreme Court. Even though some of us were called at one point to support the government of Andrej Plenkovic, which is not true, we will also be against Zlata Djurdjevic in the next vote because she is a candidate for neoliberal politics, and all those who have not yet decided to make up their minds, let them think a little bit and vote against her if they are a conservative worldview, if they are not then the choice is extremely simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43164	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It's 9.30, so we'll start working, and as usual, we'll start by giving a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, and the first one on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43165	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. In the end, we are another election race in which the opening of new and expansion of existing kindergartens, employment of breeders and professional associates and free kindergartens for all were often mentioned. In theory, everything looks perfect, but the reality of citizens and citizens is far from perfection. Evidence of this experience of a mother who shared with me and what happened to her on election day. Today is an election day in Croatia, they say every man has the right to choose, but we know very well that is not the case. Our story is just a drop in the sea, seemingly pointless in a bunch of unfortunate and unspeakable stories, yet on today we decided to fulfill our civic duty, but somewhat parental because we wanted to show our son a place that was inaccessible to him. Our polling station is located in a kindergarten that for the second year in a row refuses to apply for the entry of our three-year-old in kindergarten. Mom, when I'm gonna go to kindergarten here, when I'm gonna play here with my friends, they're just some of my boy's questions. It's hard for adults, let alone explain to children such a cruel fact. Son, you can't go to kindergarten because your mom's unemployed, and the advantage of enrolling in kindergarten has kids working parents for those reasons we can't provide you with that basic part of your growing up. A place in kindergarten for someone may be a completely irrelevant topic, but in our case, it's the first step for a number of reasons. We want our child to make friends here and I want to look more actively for work, we want a better financial situation, we want an even bigger family. This is only one mother's experience, but according to the stories that came to me from all over Croatia, this is not a lonely case. Isn't it sad that part of the children will be the only opportunity to get to know their kindergarten? According to the latest data, DZS of 200,000 preschool children is not attending kindergarten or nursery, or every third child will never see mangers or kindergartens. I therefore call on all mayors and mayors, commissioners and mayors, mayors and mayors who will soon be in charge of fulfilling their pre-election promises and doing everything in their power never to repeat this to any child again. The kindergartens are not a childcare service while the parents are at work but places that promote healthy psychosocial growth and the development of children in whom children are socialised, educated and raised. All children are entitled to kindergarten regardless of the status of the family they come from. The children are our future, and their future begins now. Every generation of opportunities is to create a foundation for a new and better world, an opportunity we must not miss, an opportunity to create a world worthy of a child. Provide access to preschool education for every child, without discrimination for the better tomorrow, all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43259	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Danica Baricevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43260	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, for the past 15 months, Croatian society and the whole world have strongly marked the crisis of the coronary pandemic. We also witness that for the past 15 months, the Croatian state has strongly resisted all these challenges of the crisis. Therefore, the role of the state was truly irreplaceable, especially in terms of preserving jobs, and it reacted in a timely manner and secured 10.5 billion kuna for the salaries of 680,000 workers and 120,000 employers. This allows the crisis to be bridged, and the total number of insurance companies we have in Croatia today is greater than it was in 2020 and even bigger than it was in 2019. Now that the pandemic is slowly eroding in one way and the cleavage dynamics are accelerating, we are increasingly returning to the usual way of economic and social activity. I believe that from the current stage of preserving jobs we will enter an intense stage of creating new jobs. For Croatia, it is very good that the world agency Fitch has maintained the credit rating of Croatia that remains in the investment zone. For the Croatian economy, employment and economic activity is of great importance and implementation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which has recently received formal confirmation from the European Commission. In the process of consulting the Commission services after the agreement of this document in the autumn we expect the first advance, followed by the implementation of planned projects. Cases of infection continue, and more than a million of our citizens received at least 1 dose of the vaccine. The planned 50 to 55% split of the adult population is expected for the summer tourist season. Therefore, it is evident that vaccination is highly interested in the tourism sector and that tourist workers are aware of how important vaccination is to ensure an even better tourist season. In addition to the exacerbation of the epidemic and the agreement on digital green certificates, we are moving towards a good tourist season and a new economic swing. And just for tourism until 2026, 2.2 billion kuna has been secured in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. With reforms and strategical rerouting of the sector through green and digital transitions, additional value as well as indirect effects of tourism on other industries will be increased. Investments in the ecological, economic and social sustainability of tourism are planned, which will preserve our resources in the long term and encourage the entire year-round tourism forms throughout the Republic of Croatia. Funding in the tourism sector will be available to everyone, micro, small and large entrepreneurs. On the basis of public calls from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, it will allocate 2.2 billion kuna with 60% of the funds allocated to entrepreneurs with the aim of direct investment in the private sector. The remaining part is intended right within the framework of the public private partnership. All projects will be linked to the reform of the tourism sector, will contribute to the green digital transition and will represent the excellence of sustainable design as well as sustainable technological solutions. Through green and digital transitions, the sustainability and sustainability of the tourism sector will increase and contribute to the recovery of the tourism sector from the pandemic crisis. The cost of measuring job conservation for the health system during the pandemic as well as the detachment for solving the effects of the earthquake also requires budget rebalancing to ensure the continued normal functioning of the state. All of this, as many preparations have been made, is an excellent prerequisite for a successful tourist season, but also for a new economic swing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43466	The following will be spoken by honourable representative Milan Vrkljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43467	Dear Vice President, I was thinking today about the work and work of the president of the assembly and I am personally sorry that he is not here, but well, the technical possibilities are today such that everything can be reconstructed and later. Otherwise, the President of Parliament shall meet the Rules of Procedure and Art. 33. He cares about the relationship between the parliament and the government within many of its powers and activities, then he is a very important position, he backs the prime minister and all the election ministers and their function and then cares about the rights and officials of us MPs. All together when you look at him, he's the one who protects the integrity of the assembly. Well, does the president respect Jandrokovic's law and respect the dignity of the assembly? 2018 The EU Directive said and imposed Croatia on the adoption of the Hera Act, which drew the agency from the executive authority's authority and placed it directly under the authority of the Croatian Parliament and the HERA has been after that since '18. responsible exclusively for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. On 15.11. 2020, which means 6 months ago, the term of office of one member of the Governing Council of HERA expired and in these 6 months until a month ago or a public call, 6 months of total silence, nausea, and the candidate to whom the mandate expired sat neatly in HERA and only translated her mandate into an advisory post. And here we have this Friday at the session of the election proposal for a new candidate for the HERA. Minister Coric plays a big role in the election. By law, he should, and should only make a public call a month before the end of the term of office of a member of the HERA and collect documentation from all candidates and these candidates and documents to the Assembly Committee on the Economy and the Assembly Committee on Appointing. The parliamentary board has received this documentation, however, Minister Coric has given himself the right to create a list of candidates, to impale candidates, to falsify documentation, in particular I warn parliamentary representatives from HDZ who are in the majority of these committees, not to respect the Law on Defence, which you are all members of that committee to meet and please one candidate or candidate. The procedure is completely contrary to the EU Directive. And I'm surprised, I'm asking myself a question, I was thinking of asking the president of the assembly, why does Jandrokovic allow Ćoric an apparent violation of the law? Why does Jandrokovic deceive MPs or allow Ćorić to deceive and destroy the dignity of the assembly? And the key issue, since the assembly was ordered by HERA, why did Jandrokovic not replace the chairman of the governing council of Hera Jurekovic, who covered the investigation and indictment of the Krš-Pađene affair for 6 months? Not a word from the assembly and the president of the assembly. I would now if there had been a president of the assembly reminded him that in the last month he had several gaffs and several recorded violations of the law such as. Until a parliamentary representative from the MOST suggested he was on the 19.5th year. since the referendum on Croatia's independence, he has not spoken a word as speaker of the assembly. Then, I would like to know what the HDZ's relationship to Tudjman's legacy is, if you forget, and the President of the Parliament forgets about such things. And I'd also remind the President of the Parliament that he's been on medical staff lately, and this HERA thing is the culmination of the parliament, the legal procedure and the evidence. corruption, crime and nepotism in Croatian society. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u43468	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u44567	We move to the final point of this agenda: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the term of office of Representative Rajko Ostojić and the termination of the conduct of the deputy representative of Domagoj Price Please, President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovic, to explain the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u44568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Parliament's Mandate-Immunity Commission discussed at the 14th session held on 18 May a written statement by MP Rajko Ostojić on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duties addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 10 May 2021. The Commission has established that Article 14(1) lays down the basis of Article 14(1) of the basic Regulation. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament rests on the parliamentary term Rajko Ostojić began 14. In October 2020, and that the deputy deputy attorney's office began to act as Domagoj Price. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament stipulates that the stay of the parliamentary term cannot last less than 6 months and that the stay ends 8 days after the written statement is made to the president of the parliament. The commission found that the legal requirements for the re-behaving of Rajko Ostojić's parliamentary duties were met. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the term of office of deputy MPs. On 18 May 2021, the term of office of MP Rajko Ostojic ended. Domagoj Prica ceases to act as deputy deputy representative on 18 May 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u44569	Thank you very much. There are no reports, thanks to the president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr Jankovic. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow, of course, we'll see each other again and at 9:30, there are two points, and the first point is the Amendments and Supplements Act, the Agency for Hydrocarbons, in the first reading of course. Come, so we can discuss such an important subject together. Thank you. Session interrupted at 14.01 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49331	Thank you very much, we have completed our position and we are going to the first point of today's agenda, that is: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 140. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49332	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, so the reasons and several times before this with similar themes are, of course, the harmonisation with the acquis of the EU and the transposition of certain directives and regulations, in particular, five directives and two and even three regulations. In fact, they all have the same objective, which is to ensure equal conditions throughout the EU as regards business or which guarantees effective prudential supervision and retaining the very costs of compliance under control and which are then able to provide, in fact, sufficient capital to cover the risk or to further invest in those liberalisations. Of course, in Croatia, the situation in the capital market does not follow trends or follow numbers however you want the EU itself. So we have 26 companies that offer investment consulting services, or investment activities, and only six investment companies. In parallel, this is about their total assets of just over 67 million kuna until the profits reported about 2.7 with data at 31.12. Only when we look at credit institutions or banking sector that owns more than 450 billion kunas and thousands of times more profits, so about 2.7 billion, and then we have it in terms of the financial sector itself and the insurance company itself, the licking house, etc. So, obviously, here and here, besides these, why am I saying this, because other than these transpositions, that is, the caution that we have, or the directive that we have, we have to transpose into our legislative system and regulations that become and automatically apply. In these changes, we went towards further changes and additions in order to greatly encourage our financial market which, of course, everywhere in Europe and in our country, if we look at just our Zagreb Stock Exchange which last year at a time of the pandemic over 35% fell, I mean 1300 and some base points with 2000 and something. So, surely that market is something that is an opportunity to improve and therefore, with all these changes, we go and with the changes they have in order, of course and through other different operations on the financial markets themselves like those, you will see later from the material itself and the OTC investment and the derivatives, the way trade is actually recorded as falling over 67% in Croatia. I will only try with regard to the scope of matter to pass those most important things, of course here we have managed to add to these changes that latest regulation on EU prospectuses, above all, as part of the recovery so Capital Markets Riverory Package, so for the recovery to the capital market which we also recognize should be particularly targeted for small and medium-sized enterprises to make it easier to acquire capital up to even 150% of the existing. But let's move forward, so as far as the prudential supervision directive is concerned, this refers to one of the most important developments in the separation of the regulatory framework of credit institutions and investment companies. Since the current legislative framework does not adequately identify the different risks of credit institutions and investment firms to which the same rules have applied. The above-mentioned IFD Directive, but also the Credit Requirements Regulation, which is also one of the major changes or a shortened IFR, prescribes a new prudential framework and new advertising for investment firms and prescribes new reporting and publication requirements, i.e. the capital requirement, liquidity exposure and investment firms' receipts. The IFD and the Directive also lay down the principles and tools of the prudential supervision of investment firms by the competent authorities in a manner consistent with the regulatory framework laid down in the rule of the said Regulation. In fact, the aim is to ensure, and what I said at the outset, the same conditions throughout the EU, therefore a single regulatory supervisory framework for investment firms which, of course, depends on their size and complexity, will allow for more effective prudential supervision, with costs under control. In addition, the aim is to provide a sufficient amount of capital to cover the risks of investment companies. So, when we return to that crisis and all that the European Commission or the EU is trying to do and secure a more stable market, reduce the risks, and now, in view of this new crisis, allow it to be more flexible and that as much as possible through certain securitisation regulations, capital is released for further investment. Therefore, the new prudential framework primarily refers to specific prudential requirements for the initial capital of investment firms, and the bill prescribes the single initial capital of investment companies depending on the investment services or activities the investment firm performs, in accordance with their size and complexity. It should be noted that the bill does not provide for an increase of... capital for investment firms currently operating on the Croatian market, so it remains at the level of 6 million kuna. In fact, we have one range right here, depending on what I said at 75,000 euros, 150,000 euros, up to 750,000 euros in kuna equivalent, practically some of the thresholds relating to initial capital. As regards the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency (HANFA), as a supervisory authority, this proposal gives the law all the powers to verify the compliance of the business of investment firms with that directive and regulation, i.e. prudential supervision and the requirement of initial capital, as well as additional publication obligations in the part of the prudential regulation and supervision of investment firms, e.g. HANFA will be able to impose additional capital requirements on the investment firm in case the capital at its disposal does not cover all the risks to which the investment firm is exposed. Therefore, in real time, monitoring business and in accordance with both thresholds can determine that for the protection of risks, of course, all with the aim of protecting investors. The proposal for a law is revised rules on the policy and practice of receiving and corporate governance standards that need to be harmonised with the risk profile of the investment company itself in order to prevent excessive risks from being taken and to allow for orderly financing of investment firms. The application of certain requirements on management systems and reception policies and procedures by respecting the principle of proportionality shall be abolished by small and inter-connected investment companies. On the other hand, more stringent measures are introduced from third countries from granting authorisation to legally binding requirements in the field of prudential and organisational rules and rules of business behaviour. In addition to this main provision of the IFD Directive and the IFR Regulation, this proposal further transposes others, as I mentioned at the beginning of a more significant legal gain, so.../incomprehensible/... another 4 directives, thus regulating the implementation of supervision on.../incomprehensible/... the basis of a group of investment companies and giving the possibility to establish a college of supervisors. One Directive regulates the regime for the authorisation and supervision of the data delivery service provider by another Directive. In addition, the authorisation and supervision of significant data delivery providers shall be transferred to the competence of the European Securities Competent Authority ESMA and the capital market while it will continue to license at national level, supervised by service providers whose business is not of great cross-border importance. We have already had this in a number of proposals here ahead of you concerning the recovery, liquidation, so the rule of bank authorisation and all major banks are going to the level of Europe, entering our euro area, and for less, national regulators remain there. The exemption from the application of legal provisions to providers of joint financing services shall also be governed. Therefore, it is clearly prescribed that the provider of joint financing services or.../incomprehensible/... is popular whether the platforms are not subject to the requirements of the Capital Market Act. So it is absolutely clearly defined in this proposal. Formal burdens shall also be lifted and shall be regulated, the achievement of a balance between the sufficient level of transparency towards the client of the highest standards of protection and the eligible costs of meeting the requirements for the provision of financial services. So that's that balance of administrative and of course financial burden on financial market players with the aim of protecting investors, and on the other hand, and their costs that they have to take, you'll see later, especially when we talk about certain drafts where the thresholds change. The very prospectuses of the issue of any securities can be expensive, and this little liberalises and raises that threshold to EUR 8 million from the 4th to the 4th. What I also said at the outset should be said or mentioned that there is a transfer of regulatory redundancies from the EU recovery package to the capital market segment, the said Capital Markets Recovery Package, which was published in February of this year. In particular, this means introducing a new, shorter prospectus or the EU's recovery prospectus through which it will be allocated, enabling an increase in capital over the next year, and eventually, the minimum information requirements that the recovery prospectus must contain when making investment decisions will, in turn, be changed to what I have told you little about. Therefore, there is also a need to highlight small and medium-sized enterprises, so-called ‘SMEs’. .../incomprehensible/... their need for capital has been recognised and certainly this form of discharge in the form of a simplified prospectus will facilitate access to the capital market and allow alternative access to capital itself, therefore not only in the case of credit obligations but also in this way. Now we come to those other amendments and additions to the law, with the transfer of the legal gains itself, as I said here, and certain provisions are being developed in a way that should contribute to the simplified business of investment companies primarily through the gradual and gradual abolition of communication methods in paper form, i.e. the introduction of rules and electronic data delivery, i.e. digitalisation. This appropriation is intended to cover: Investment companies will also be enabled to pay together the provision of research and enforcement services in accordance with certain conditions. For the purpose of protecting the interest of investment service users, it is prescribed that the financial promotion of investment firms in relation to investments in financial instruments other than regulated entities is therefore meant by the investment firm or by a tied representative to be carried out by market intermediaries. Therefore, the activity of the market intermediary and the business of financial promotion for foreign and domestic investment companies has been expanded and the market intermediary will be able to carry out promotional activities related to investment company services, the provision of investment company services to potential clients, and the consultation of financial instruments and services offered by the investment firm. Therefore, with a view to better informing citizens or business operators about the possibility of investing themselves. In fact, in this way, the conditions of promotion for all who directly communicate with potential investors are also equalised, which, of course, raises their level of protection again. What is introduced by this law and certain changes relating to a regulated market or stock exchange, thus far, the prior notification procedure of HANFE in relation to the compensation for regulated market services, i.e. a specific market pricer, is abolished and the obligation for HANFA to approve the market price list is introduced. So it's not later than before. from the stock market will have to get prior approval. That amendment is introduced for the sake of the fact that the stock market is an important market infrastructure institution and it is necessary for the HANFA to verify in the previous procedure that the fees for regulated market services are set in a transparent, competitive and correct and non-discriminatory manner by leading to development commercial conditions. It is also proposed to introduce the obligation of the issuer to approve HANFA for the status changes in the stock market, to set up its branch outside the Republic of Croatia and to acquire a share exceeding 25% of the voting rights in another legal person instead of the previous prior notification procedure, so we are relocating what has been the notification with the approval. As regards the protection of small shareholders, the process of withdrawing shares from the regulated market is further regulated, so the amount of fair compensation and the embodies on the assessment of fair value of the share audited by an independent and authorised auditor. The issuer must make all stakeholders available and publish to the public no later than five days before holding the main assembly to decide on the withdrawal of shares from the inclusion on the regulated market, all so that shareholders can bring an informed basis. For the purpose of administrative discharge, the obligation of the issuer relating to the annual publication of data on the acquisition and holding of its own shares shall also be lifted. In addition, the reporting obligations of non-financial counterparties on trade in OTC derivatives according to the HANFA in this respect are relaxed in such a way that only significant positions for those who have concluded more than 100 OTC derivatives transactions are covered by the obligation. By the way, OTC or Over-The-counter means directly the simplest, most complicatedly, it is direct between the two entities direct trade in certain securities, so not via the stock market where their total gross nominal amount exceeds 300 million kuna, the current reporting criterion was 50 and those who had contractual positions in OTC derivatives at a total gross nominal amount of over one billion kuna, and the current criterion was 100 million. The part of the HANFA supervisory activities also proposes to further regulate the completion of the surveillance procedure in such a way that if the conditions are met, the HANFA will have to adopt a declaratory solution to determine that the illegalities and irregularities previously identified by the HANFA solution have been removed and that the surveillance procedure is terminated which will contribute to the legal certainty of the surveillance entities. Therefore, in conclusion only in short, as the most important parts of this proposal of the law have been clarified, it concerns the transposition of the provisions of the Directive as well as ensuring the implementation of the regulation, and thus, in fact, ensuring an adequate exchange of application of the new prudential framework and the requirements for the operation of investment firms and effective prudential supervision by the authorised competent authorities, in particular with us, the HanFA is identical to that of other Member States. By doing so, the Republic of Croatia will fulfil its prescribed obligation and bring its legislation in line with the EU acquis, while these other amendments to the proposal allow for a better functioning of the capital market in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49333	Thank you very much. Please remain here Secretary of State because we have more replicas, the first respected advocates of the Marine Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49334	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. When we talk about the capital market, it's for sure that we see digital currencies here, too, tell me if the use is that. The business of crypts regulated and resolved by this law, and how do you actually see the regulation of this issue?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49335	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49336	Thank you. As far as these amendments are concerned, I said at the beginning of what is the point, they do not include this part of trade in crypts with these amendments, nor is it at the level of the regulations that we transpose regulated this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49337	The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49338	...the chairman. I must admit that I find this hasty procedure somewhat unusual from the day this law was sent into debate to the day of decision-making, is there any reason? And secondly, I'd like you to explain this relaxation of reporting obligations to the agency, so we've reduced our obligation by six times compared to OTC derivatives transactions from 50 million kuna to 300 million kuna, and also to open positions in OTC derivatives by ten times, so from the existing 100 million kuna per billion? I have not seen this reflect on these approvals that you have spoken about, or my question is, does this supervisory role of HANFA weaken and how does it intend to compensate?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49339	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49340	Thank you. Now I didn't realize this part of the story about the hasty adoption, so this particular regulation and the directive date back to the end of 2019, until this last one, which is in the second month of this year where we united all that we are bound to do this year to meet the deadlines and come into this law in our first reading. As for the OTC derivatives themselves that you mentioned, so the OTC derivative market is extremely low, weak and has suffered the biggest fall due to the pandemic crisis, so over 67%, and this is what it wants to boost exactly that kind of trade that is not over the stock market. So here we are talking about direct trading of securities between two business entities that are not taking place through the stock market itself, so it is not... the situation, so with this particular desire to boost the activity on the capital market which I have initially said is quite low in Croatia compared to these European scales.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49341	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49342	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is obvious that our citizens in the Republic of Croatia are insignificantly participating in the capital market, and now it is my question, which as a government will do to encourage citizens to participate more in the capital market, to invest in investment funds, to educate them, whether through media campaigns of civic education, because it is obvious that it is not worth saving in the bank now, whether foreign or kuna savings, and inflation is more than 2%. Investment in real estate also actually raises the rent price, which is due to the fact that our young and young families cannot afford an adequate apartment, so they actually have to move it to other countries in the EU. So my question is, what are you going to do as a government?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49343	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49344	I appreciate the question. So, as regards concrete steps, it should be said that, in fact, through various activities, it is working to improve financial literacy, so there is also a specific strategy and action plan before adoption, which will be here and before you, which has already been for a period of time if I am not mistaken in 2014-20, now goes 2021-2027, so that on that side absolutely in education of course the supervisory authorities of the CNB and NANFA are following the developments in the financial markets of the apropo mentioned, the inflation still mentioned at the annual level in that good zone, which also means economic growth, is. We need to know that investment, that inflation is actually desirable while it's up to 2%, and it's estimated to be this year, at the beginning of the year it was lower, now it's slightly higher, but it's going to end up by 2%, while it's deflation or zero being negative in terms of poorer economic growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49345	Thank you. The Republic also has a respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49346	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The fact is that the current amendments to the law really wanted to bring the capital market back to life, which was partially successful with Croatia's entry into the EU. But here's just one detail of what it means when this covid crisis has so disrupted the entire systems that, from this latest data that we have an exceptional outflow of funds was just out of investment funds and that's right in the Republic of Croatia where even the value of the assets, the net assets of the investment funds decreased by over 35%, so over 8 billion kuna. This is proof for right and there is the most sensitive precisely these conservative investors, or natural persons, and that is what has now made the whole procedure as difficult as it is to actually become a capital market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49347	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49348	I thank you, that is precisely what one of these additional amendments and additions that are not the very transposition of the directive and regulations, so what I was saying in the pandemic year we had a strong drop in stock prices on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, so 32.51% as regards base points from 2021 which was 21.2.2020 at 1364 within a month. So, also as regards the net assets of the open and public funds of the so-called. The lessons of the funds that we've had are a drastic decline, where we're right now on, on an upward path, but we haven't yet, we haven't gotten to that before, before the crisis period. As regards market capitalisation, it decreased by 0.2% per month according to the latest data, and at the end of April was 74.4% of GDP. So here's my thanks. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49349	Dear representative Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49350	Good afternoon. Here is the mention of reviving the capital market, I do not know how many of these regulations will succeed, these 5 regulations which are specific and instruments that are highly specific and which go in, mainly in the direction of what you have stated several times, mean that the famous alignment of the regulatory framework with the EU acquis. But as you pointed out yourself, it will not have an excessive impact on our capital market, which is modest and which does not focus on investment. Only in the last year will I remind you that 11 billion kuna is the increased savings of the richest in domestic banks. The banks pulled 5.7 billion kunas out of the country last year, meaning there are neither mechanisms nor regulations that would move towards encouraging green renovation investments, a regulation that would therefore go towards real economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49351	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49352	I don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49353	You have no answer. Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49354	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said in the introduction, and only here to make it very clear that this credit supervision is now separated from those credit institutions in relation to investment, investment companies. So now I'm curious about this supervision of investment companies whether there's a relaxation of this particular surveillance and in which direction, you say more will be focused on the risks of eating, so that more of every investment society will adapt its supervision to how risky it is, so now I'm wondering if it's going in that direction and how you're looking at it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49355	Thank you. Before you answer, he raised a respected representative of Matula's injury to the Rules of Procedure, so let's see what he finds injured by the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49356	I thank the chairman. I think he's hurt. In 238, didn't Mr. Secretary of State just completely bypass without any explanation and contempt go over the discussion and replica of counterpart Peović? Can you explain that in just one sentence? And I assume that's the violation of Mr. Chairman's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49357	Mr. William Matula, let's finally read the Rules of Procedure, you've been here long enough, so you might know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because the reply to the replica is not necessary, just as no replica is necessary. The replica can be set, someone can respond to the replica or does not have to respond to the replica. Thus, it was given by someone to reply to a replica or to set up a replica, or it had nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to read the Rules of Procedure, and until then you get a warning. There's a respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49358	Well, yes, the Rules of Procedure of 238, and not only to me as representatives who have not been granted an answer, but also to the entire assembly, because the meaning of this high body is lost if we are asking a question here, and the State Secretary refuses to answer them, if they do not have an oral answer, then it can be answered in writing, but certainly it should not be tolerated the practice in which they do not reply at all. Otherwise we can go outside, there's no reason to sit there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49359	So esteemed MPs Peović, again, read the Rules of Procedure you will see that, as you can set up a replica or you do not have to set up a replica so that this replica can be answered or not, especially if it is actually spoken in terms of the claim rather than asking. Therefore, it can be answered if someone wants to or has nothing to answer, perhaps a different thought or so, but in any case, it is not a reply to the replica of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and especially not an article that you have cited. So you get a warning too, and I beg you, let's not abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure and let us all act on the Rules of Procedure. Now, however, an answer should be given to the respected representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49360	Thank you, dear Vice President. I can apologize, but I didn't see the question in your replica but a comment on the existing one, so I didn't know how to adequately refer to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49361	I'll send you in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49362	Please don't come from the bench, that's not how democracy works. Maybe you didn't know that, but read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49363	Therefore, the specific question of the esteemed representative of Lalovac, as regards the diversity of risk credit institutions and investment companies, is yes. So new requirements for reporting, publishing, capital requirements of liquidity exposure are also prescribed just so that, depending on the degree of risk itself, a certain part has been relaxed to, of course, with the aim of encouraging the operation itself, the very work of the capital market through the work of investment companies, because at the beginning, I have just purposely said, which includes these strictly 6 investment companies, with which assets and what profits we are looking at in relation to credit institutions, this is a thousand times less and this is one of these.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49364	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, then I'm opening a debate and the first one on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club will be spoken by a respected representative of the Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49365	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow Members of our citizens and citizens who follow us through the screen, here is the respected representative Nadj, who has actually asked a good question about the development of the capital market, but I must tell you that there is no answer from the secretary, nor from the government of the Republic of Croatia, because neither the investment, economic, nor energy is a clear strategy for the Republic of Croatia. And if I were to back that up now, we'd start in a row I've got three sections. Number one, therefore, in this National Resistance and Recovery Plan, it is stated somewhere that in the drum therefore state property will be found for investments or purchase of some 150 companies and there will certainly be one interesting one for which we must touch, which is our INA. And why INA is very interesting and it is certainly on the capital market, because it is still in the 9th month of last 2020, so Minister Coric said that the purchase of MOL shares will therefore happen in such a way that the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the public debt will not be touched. This means two scenarios or INU or the purchase of MOL shares buys a stranger or so it will happen similar to what was already the model of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to buy the Adriatic Bank, for example buy a Croatian postal bank which does not touch the budget and on the other hand buys out state property. Now, in the first place, geostrategic is not clear to us, so if a stranger buys it, then there are four more bidders, one of whom was even Rosneft from Russia, and then the question is, what's our strategy? So, should Vladimir Putin really come, the capital as such does not have, I do not do any discrimination here but see if it is a strategic reality that Vladimir Putin should come to the market of energy in the Republic, for example, looking at the excellent positioning through Gazprom in, say, Serbia, BiH, Hungary and, say, through the Turkish flow, there Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey itself. So, this is now one question we need to answer, the government of the Republic of Croatia is not saying anything about it. Point 2, if there is going to be a scenario for INU, for example, to buy it, as was it to say the Croatian Post Bank buys out the Adriatic Bank, it means that we have MOL shares in the scenario, as Mr. Coric said, should buy some large energy company. Who could be in Croatia, for example, only HEP. Now, what's the problem? If HEP buys for example the ININE shares then we get one of the biggest corrupt and clienteletic octopuses that may be the largest after Zagreb Holding and City Administration. Now, there is a further scenario, so in the 11th month of last year, so Minister Coric said he might, however, buy himself up that an offer has now been sent to Hungarians who are not responding, that it may go from the budget. Then where's the problem? Now, there's a problem with Mr. Plenkovic's very personality for the reason he's on the one hand saying he's going to buy INE shares, and on the other hand he's saying we're going to enter the euro zone. Now, there's a problem here because to buy out the INE stock from the budget, you have to be in charge, and if you're in debt, you increase public debt, so we have a problem with Maastricht criteria, and if we have a problem with Maastricht criteria, we don't enter the euro zone. However we turn to INE, and we are talking about the development of some capital market, we can see that neither energy nor investment nor economic or market strategy is clear to us from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But we can continue to develop this here is a further example of 432 pages of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan saying that the Croatian Government, so I am now speaking the official document on the 432nd page, will invest six billion kunas for sewers and drains, I repeat six billion kunas for sewers and drains. Okay, we need it very much, but the question is why such an investment does not go out of the budget, why such things are not financed from the local budget as it was supposed to be an example of the City of Zagreb when they are still 2007. We have raised the bond of two billion kunas from London, so neither do we have a water supply network in the City of Zagreb, nor do we have money, and we have burdened people, so why is this placed under the category of economy where we should ask what you asked, invest and maybe encourage the capital market? It's not clear again. Let's see an investment view, a private-market scenario, so let's just imagine a second scenario, so I'm not attacking but I'm looking just constructively at what might happen in the second scenario that these six billion kunas that are going to be invested in a water supply network, sewerage or whatever, so again a big problem of public procurement, so let's say we invested 20 million kunas in 300 small, medium and large enterprises. So 300 times 20 million that's six billion kunas, so on every kuna you have four kuna returns, which means it's a potential return of 24 billion kuna. Investments always happen about 15% to 20% so the money doesn't get fertilized, so it's dead capital. But from this perspective on six billion kunas invested, who wouldn't agree to 20 billion kuna returns? However, this return will not be achieved by investing in the water and sewerage network, which is on the 432nd side of the National Plan and Recovery. Now, here's to all the effort, so we can see what we can put into, which are companies, so let's say you have an example of a chocolate industry called "Special Chocolate" from Sevetski Kraljec that managed to produce some innovative product of pink chocolate sold on a highly demanding market in Japan. Now imagine the level of innovation you must have raised, produced today when the cost of production is extremely high because of the US inflation, today when coconut and palm milk rose 70 to 90%, and today when the costs of packaging have increased very much, which witnesses say a very good interview with the President of Krasa Administration I think is in Leader. Thus, with all the variables of the Sesvetian King, they produce chocolate pink that is sold and exported on the Japanese, Australian and Austrian markets. Imagine a financial injection of 20 million kuna to them, so how many new jobs would it be, how many Croats would stay in the Republic and not have to go to that same Austria that then buys the chocolate produced in the Sesvetski Kralje? How much would that be, say, new engines, new innovations if we invested in a company like that that would certainly put it back on one kuna four? We don't have to go any further, let's just say, I found another example in the Queen or pardon in the Sesvets, so the production of ampoules, so I didn't even know that it existed in the Sesvets that there's a company that's also exporting ampoules to Japan on the pharmaceutical market. And now imagine that we have given such a single company 20 million kunas to boost further production and further digitisation and, moreover, that such a company is rooted and ensnared on the pharmaceutical European market or the EU market, so that they could benefit from that money, it would certainly be fertilised by new plants, new employment, digitalisation and all that we hear here in HS, and none of it is implemented. Now such investments, so it's not weird that it happened in the Republic of Croatia, so despite the fact that we're being limited in all possible ways, especially since the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not clear where we're going, so it's not clear what we're going to do with all that money that we see now from certain patterns, even those key companies, we don't know what we're going to do with it. So it's no wonder that we may have invested in this "Special Chocolate" of the Sesvetski Kraljenian might have gotten a new Infobip, which has now become a unicorn within 15 years from the water company, which is now preparing for a quotation on the New York Stock Exchange. Maybe "Special Chocolates" would do that, and then automatically works on the development of the capital market, or let's say we helped these people perfect even more the production of these ampoules that we could then place on the markets of Japan, the EU markets because watch out, you take something out to Japan, and I lived in Asia, you have to be technologically stronger than Japan. So what kind of chocolate did we from the Kings manage to place there? Now from such a company soaring investment up to the level that it might become a stock company automatically tangs the capital market. We can deal with these legalistic things here now, so we've changed the addition of this, we've changed the addition of that, and that's all nice from the perspective of some law, maybe we'll calm our conscience that we've done something, and on the other hand we haven't done absolutely anything, and we're at the turning point. So, Mrs. Nadj's answer to your question is the following, investment, energy, economic, we don't have a strategy, we don't see what we're investing in, we don't see returns, we don't see what our companies are, we don't see, we don't see what our industries are, we don't see, we don't see what industry we're in, we're in position to invest in, we're in, we're giving us returns, we're opening new plants, we're hiring, we're not driving people from the Republic, we're not driving people from the Republic, we're just going to be able to leave here and build our economy and the whole society, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49366	The next club of MPs will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49367	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate. In front of us today is a proposal for a law on the capital market, I think this is one of the most complicated laws that can even produce one ministry or who can adopt this House of Commons. And therefore, no matter how much he looks like an administrative, technical congratulations to the Ministry of Finance and people who have worked on this extremely complicated law probably with the help of HANFA, as well as the agency that has to implement this in the work and who ultimately sublimes everything that Europe wants one day, what the capital market that is much more developed than the Croatian capital market, which has many financial instruments than Croatia has, and then so on, so on. These OTC derivatives, etc. And raising some thresholds, in fact, we don't have any kind of market derivatives in the Republic of Croatia at all, or what it is, is so minimal that, at all, we can't talk about it at all. However, when such a rather complicated law comes, it needs both commendation and the secretary of state, I think it's enough and elaborated it because I say it's not a simple topic, it's quite specialized for only those who do so, so we also need it as representatives in a different way and clarify it. I might, as a framework of the Capital Market Act, simply try to give out the location of today's Croatian capital market and whether it actually has a future. There was also talk here about how much, how much is the capital market in the Republic of Croatia or what is some kind of market capitalisation, means the market value of all these shares and bonds traded on the capital market in Croatia. It's about 276 billion kuna, right? The market capitalisation of shares and bonds on our stock market is 276 billion kuna. She grew, she fell during the time, during the pandemic somewhere in the second, third month, this one fell to 242 billion. Today it has recovered by about 30 billion kuna, and it makes up of these 270 billion kunas, 140 billion shares, about 130 bonds, some market capitalisation of those values. Transport of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the annual turnover of the Zagreb Stock Exchange is 3 billion kuna, every year 2018, '19. And the '20s. 3 billion kuna is some traffic on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Now that's my question, that's for thinking and for us here. And traffic past the stock market here called the OTC market... or so-called The market over the counter, or we could call it "Snookala", last year was 27 billion kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it was traded in the Republic of Croatia on the regulated market of the stock market that we bring here the law and regulate it 3 billion kunas, past the OTC market last year was traded with shares where citizens bought and sold shares for 27 billion kuna. The year before the OTC market traffic was 13 billion kuna, still there in 2018. 13 billion kuna. What does that tell us? In fact, past the capital market, past the stock market, the Zagreb Stock Exchange, which has strictly regulated rules, we make laws for them, a very complicated market, there is still a certain share market traffic, 10 times more than on the regulated market, 10 times more, 10 times more than on the regulated market. This is what the state should ask itself at all how and for what or if it will stay that way, maybe it is okay because we know that if it is traded over a regulated capital market, and here we primarily think about the protection of small shareholders and here it is actually brought here certain regulations are made to protect these small shareholders through the OTC market. Such protections don't have small shareholders, and I say 10 times the trade is past, so over the counter is when people buy and sell shares. So the potential of the Croatian capital market has. It is one thing about rigorous rules and requirements which, in fact, not only there and the European Commission requires capital markets to implement, but also this directive is one, these 5 directives which we will actually implement in laws and there are certain rules that companies list and go to the capital market and those that do not actually want to be listed on the capital market anymore. And recently, one of our largest banks has come out of the PBZ capital market, they've come out, they've delisted from the capital market. Now the question is, why is there a capital market in the first place? The capital market primarily exists to raise capital for businesses. This is the first and basic function of the capital market to actually be on the other side of the banking sector, is we a banking-oriented economy where to get capital for investment we go to the bank and for investment potential is solved through bank loans. The capital market was founded or functioned to avoid people going to banks but to issue shares on the capital market, raise capital and thus finance their investment or finance their production. In Croatia, unfortunately, we have few such cases where Croatian companies are, and here there have been talks about our technology companies, to go to the capital market, to collect in this way a source of funds to finance their business is all the companies that are out there, without talking about the US markets "Netflix", "Zoom" whatever technology companies you want, they are on the markets to raise capital so they can finance their business. However, why she is now, here is, one market capital is in serious problems in the long term is banking loans are now about 0 to 1%, 2% interest and the capital market no longer and cannot even compete with that source of funding compared to banks. When banks had interest rates from 7 to 10%, people went to the capital market to raise capital that was cheaper than the capital they received from the banks. However, since the banks, interest has come to 1 to 2% simply more capital market as a way of collecting that money simply has no longer such competitive function as the banks had, and what is still happening in Croatia is the question that we and the EU funds that are also, most of the grants, are in this kind of capital that is so cheap to raise, to raise investment and production. That's why we're saying, on the one hand, we have regulations that require the capital market and that's very sensitive, it's very sensitive to any information. Just the beginning of Covid, 2nd period. And the 3rd month. Last year, from the capital market, i.e. investment funds,... Overnight, 7.5 billion kuna went missing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Simply, the citizens pulled out, there wasn't much in the public, they pulled 7.5 billion kuna, and probably one part, what my colleague Peovic was saying, went into savings, transferred from the capital market, or investment funds, people pulled their money out, they pulled money out of the funds, because they were afraid of a strong fall, 30% of the stock market, and they just pulled out all that money, and by the way, they lost, the drop was also on pension funds, and today it's about 19.6, 20 billion kuna is some kind of property, net assets of investment funds. And unlike, which is why it's this one, which is why I asked about regulation. The banks have their supervisor, or regulation mechanism, but there the state guarantees you up to 100,000 euros. If you want to invest your money in savings and hold it, and if it loses that bank, it collapses, so on, the state guarantees you through that fund that was talking up to 100,000 euros in money here, right? As much as you lose on investment companies, no one guarantees you anything. That's what this is about, when the money you lost in the funds through the price, nobody guarantees you anything, you lose money, you have to wait for this, that market to come back. And because of this, this regulation, which is also why the regulation by both the EU and the EU Commission, is much more stringent on the capital markets, but it should also make a much higher contribution than the banks do. Because the banks today give you 1-2, who gets 1%, that's great, but it's making on the investment market, or on the fund market, it's giving you a bigger contribution, but it's also taking a bigger risk, isn't it? It's a much bigger risk to you. So, I say, once again thank you to the Ministry of Finance and to the people who have worked this very complicated law, an extremely complicated law, but certainly to ask ourselves that 10 times, that there is a market in Croatia, shares and that it is going on on the OTC market, not an unregulated market, and That's what we need to do in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49368	The next club of representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49369	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act and the HDZ Club will support those laws. As has already been said, this is one of the most complicated laws the Ministry of Finance adopts and proposes to HS and as we know, the basic law was passed in 2018 and amended once again in 2020, where it was also harmonised with the EU acquis. However, as the legal gains and the news that are happening within the capital market itself, it is also the obligation and the Croatian regulatory framework to exactly bring everything that is going on in line with the EU acquis. These amendments further implement 5 Directives and 2 additional regulations. What is now happening in these amendments and additions is primarily taking place in the part of the transposition of the Directive on prudential supervision of investment companies, etc. IFD and so-called For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Such specific prudential requirements for the initial capital of investment firms shall be subject to supervisory powers and instruments for the prudential supervision of investment firms carried out by the competent authorities and the publication requirements for competent authorities in the area of those prudential regulations and supervision. In relation to the existing legislative framework which is now becoming, therefore, simplified requirements for investment firms and competent authorities have been simplified, in order to assess the appropriateness of the arrangements and procedures in order to ensure that investment companies are treated precisely in accordance with these provisions. And since the current legislative framework does not adequately identify the different risks of credit institutions and investment companies, and also to risk and to less risky companies,... The rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Developmental information and business secret and revised corporate governance and income rules are also being arranged to ensure the orderly functioning of investment companies and to prevent their staff from taking excessive risks. So all this is in line with exactly the objectives of what is regulated, to further protect citizens and all investors investing in any kind of capital. The proposed HANFA law confers all the powers in carrying out prudential supervision of investment firms, including the power to impose additional capital requirements on an investment firm, in the event that that capital is available to the company does not cover all the risks to which the company is exposed. It is also the power of licensing and supervision of significant data delivery service providers that now passes to the competence of the European Securities and Markets Supervisory Authority or ESMA and thus further regulates relations and facilitates controls and licensing and is no longer under national law. In fact, what is important to say is that in these conditions where we are in a system where, as we know, huge capital is circulating and that, especially now after the covid of the crisis, which will also be located significantly in individual sectors, it is very important that this regulation and that control be extremely quality because we know that this is about exceptional funds of over a thousand billion euros. What is more important to say is that, in addition to the status changes that are being changed and the importance of the HANFA is introduced and the approval of the Stock Exchange Agency where a branch can be established outside the Republic of Croatia where if the acquisition of a share exceeding 25% of voting rights in another legal person as well as the Pricelist of the Stock Exchange and Sanctions if the obligation does not deliver timely and timely data. Also for the protection of small shareholders, the process of withdrawing shares from the regulated market is further regulated, and what is very important is what we have mentioned, in fact, the attractiveness of the financial market for small shareholders and what happened right now is the covid of the crisis where all those investments that small shareholders invested, for example. In investment funds, according to the latest information we have from HANFA, by mid-April exactly the value of investment funds decreased by 8.3 billion kuna, which is over 35%. Therefore, precisely natural persons who are conservative investors have felt this unprotection, i.e. a high risk that is present, and therefore this capital is being poured into other forms or into safer bank deposits. For this reason, here is this one, with all the efforts to boost the capital market in conditions where we have just one of the several important risk factors, and this is the pandemic, then you can see how much the regulation of such a market is even more difficult and how much more high quality control must be. Therefore, with a number of details changing individual articles of this law, we hope that better supervision will be achieved in this way, but also that it will be able to be more stable and that in fact certain risks that are present now will eventually be seen, and that this regulation will indeed offer quality protection and the possibility of investment in the capital market that should thus give greater yields and allow the development of the market and in Croatia, which, after EU entry, is somewhat more significant, but still not enough to make this a more significant market and much more valuable than what is now going on at the annual level of around three billion kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49370	The next club of representatives will be the Centre and GLAS, and Dalija Oreskovic will speak to the respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49371	Honorable MPs and MPs. I've asked Mr. Churay's proposing representative two very specific questions in the replica. I did not get an answer from those questions, as did any other MPs and MPs, to which we received a reply from the chairman that the speaker was not even required by the Rules of Procedure to answer the reply. It only speaks in favor of what I often point out that the Rules of Procedure of the HS itself has brought the Parliament into an undegradable role in which it is not actually being debated. The fact that a representative of the legislator is not obliged to respond to the replica of the representative speaks about how much we have become a dysfunctional and poor democracy, although it is not an obligation under the Rules of Procedure that such practice should be strongly condemned. Namely, why is it important to give a clear and unambiguous answer to the question raised in the replica? So because we Parliamentarians have a duty and responsibility to even the most complex laws, the most specific technical matter, we discuss it in a way that is understandable to the citizens and voters who have put us in these places. Kind of like a colleague named Boris Lalovec did. And the more complex the matter, the more professional the matter is from a particular law, the more effort we have to make, to speak in a language that is understandable. And now I'm going to go back to those two questions that I didn't get a clear and decoded answer to, and I don't think only my voters, even your voters, want to hear it. The first question was, what's the rush? To clarify, this law is addressed to the parliamentary procedure on May 13th, which means that by the time we discuss the law, even in the first reading, it's been less than 30 days. Obviously there is a reason and I asked the legislator's representative to explain it to me and the entire Croatian public, why this law is being debated de facto over the order, why this law has priority over all other laws and all other items included in the agenda that are literally waiting not only from the day of the constitution of this convocation of the Croatian Parliament, many topics now on the agenda, have been waiting in fact for several years and represent unresolved topics and points of the agenda from the last convocation of the Croatian Assembly. From the Commission's decision-making report on the conflict of interest of 2018 onwards. Here last week, we discussed reports 3 years old, which are 3 years old and just in these reports, there is information about key problems that our citizens are struggling with, and I think we are obliged to give an answer to Croatian citizens, why, therefore, everyone can look at what is on the agenda and what is waiting and each of our citizens and voters can say how many laws or topics directly affecting the quality, better say, maintaining the quality and the poor quality of their lives. We do not solve the problems of citizens, we are pushing key problems under the rug, but the law in the essential segments refers to 6 major investment companies, we are discussing and putting on the agenda in less than 30 days, from the day the Croatian Parliament referred it to the legislative procedure. I want to hear the answer to the question why, and not to speak now, for example, about the executive law that we will not even see in the parliamentary procedure, not to mention the anti-corruption strategy that we should have adopted at the end of last year, but it is not yet in the stage of any excessive preparation, etc. So what are our priorities? And are we so irresponsible to those who pay us to deal with less important than what the priorities of all our citizens are, that's the first question I haven't received an answer to, and the second one is related to what counterpart Boris Lalovac has been exposed to, I asked a very clear question. So, if we have the fact that the OTC market is barata or trading with 10 pies greater than the one that is somehow monitored and controlled through the rules of the stock market, and we have this law to relax our reporting obligations to the agency, and for one item, to make it simple, know Mr. Chure what I'm asking him, so for six times, and for some other things up to 10 times, so something that used to be the threshold of 100 million kuna, now is the threshold of a billion kuna, something that was the threshold of 50 million kuna, is now the threshold of 300 million kuna. And if we removed that reporting obligation to HANFA, did we replace supervisory and control mechanisms with something else? So I think they'll agree with me when I say that it's the main task of the state to regulate the legal framework under which the state operates. Col. Nadj pointed out that our citizens actually have little participation in the capital market, you even asked the question in which way the Government is going to further encourage it. We realized that it's no longer worth saving in banks, we realized that more and real estate trading has become something that's harmful in a different way because it raises the rent price. So we want to encourage the participation of citizens in capital trading, we have information that OTC markets are traded 10 times more than on the stock market, so the interest obviously exists, there is obviously some kind of financial capital that our citizens have. The question arises whether they have security in the country to protect them from potential malfeasances and risks of such activities. And if at this rate we refer a certain law to the parliamentary procedure and in some way, at least that's how I read it, we escape one of HANFA's supervisory or control powers, and that's the receipt of the OTC derivative trading report, my question was whether we compensated it with other tools, instruments, and obligations to convince our citizens that their capital trade is, therefore, their participation in capital trading, their investment, in some way protected by the activities of institutions for whose work in terms of power, this state is appropriate. And now I again ask these two in the replica questions asked, and I ask that we take up one practice that I consider literally minimum but minimum decent debate in the Croatian Parliament and politely respect the proposing representatives for parliamentary MPs, that the clearly asked questions in the replica be clearly answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49372	We are now moving on to an individual debate and will speak to the respected representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49373	Here, first of all, thank you to colleagues who have more skillfully explained to me why this High House should be governed by the rules of communication that are left behind here after my replica. I must say, first of all, that it is amazing for me to say that Secretary of State Stjepan Curaj at the Ministry of Finance has no need to answer a very clear question, I know that according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no obligation, but very clearly, the question in the replica, which is asked, which is whether there is some regulation that would go towards solving the problem that many of us address in this House, therefore, and that is some accumulation of capital in times of crisis, which is evident, means from the CNB's report that 11 billion kuna is further, so it is saved, under quotes, in one year, the crown year, which gives the impulse and gives information that people are saving, they are not investing, and whether there is some regulation that would sort of solve it, i.e. I think that this question is relevant and it is amazing, however, that someone who is in that relevant position does not give an answer to such a question. However, this Law proposal therefore adopts something relating to the further harmonisation of the Croatian capital market regulatory framework with the acquis, whether, in particular, the EU is in the part of the transposition of the Directive on prudential supervision of investment companies. It is therefore safe to introduce certain mechanisms, therefore, simplified requirements for investment companies. But it's about specific instruments that can't even be entered into this expertise and that's explained here, but what's really crucial is why my question came out of some concrete law, so it's been brought here by others, so Lalovac's colleagues, that it's a very small capital market for us that has very little influences, i.e. very little reach on what's a particular problem, and that's encouraging economic growth. Mostly all the MPs here will stop, is it, on the other hand, that it is simply harmonising the regulatory framework with the acquis and there is no dispute, but some questions would still have to be raised wider than this. The other thing that some people have already asked here is how to direct the capital market to simply serve the capital raised from the part of the savings, to invest that capital, to trigger investment and development, which is not happening with us. But I would also cite some other, other problems that are not mentioned here, and that is that truly private banks in foreign ownership finance personal consumption, purchase of apartments, economic operators, but only those that have the possibility of achieving short-term objectives of profitable investments, so short-term profitable investments, and that would rather be investments in tourism, in service activities than what we need. So what is not in the interest of private banks are investments which do not necessarily have to be cost-effective in the short term, and perhaps even in the long term, but are necessary for a social majority that does not have any use for this kind of framework that goes in favour of banks that draw between 4 and 6 billion kuna from Croatia annually. So private commercial banks and the logic of this private-oriented investment are logic, of course, risk and profitability ratios that in many ways limit banks to be a wheel of our development. So the purpose of the investment is subject to the short-term profit, while it should certainly be aimed at plan-based production, so the achievement of the conditions of meeting the basic needs, and what are actually fundamental needs best demonstrated by this fall of the coronary virus, although here, my party protested further in 2015 against the destruction of the Immunological One, we have now come to the conclusion that the Immunological Pack should be saved and that it could have been some kind of wheel, therefore, of drug production. It is production, of course, medical equipment, food industry development, food production, etc. In addition, of course, we can't just stick to meeting the basic needs, meeting the basic needs, there's investment in the domestic industry that would have the opportunity to create these multiplier effects on the economy and run development, but then again, we're going back to this purpose of investing and these barriers that we have here and at shipbuilding, and for example, the green transition, where we can start our own production, that's where we're actually going to stop at that the interest of banks that are not of equal interest to social development. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49374	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49375	Thank you, Vice President. Here, I will briefly, from the end, to remove all doubts, so the distinguished representative Peovic, so your question I really didn't understand from your replica, therefore, and it was whether there was any legal regulations to remove or reduce the accumulation of capital. I understand that now because there's really nothing else I can do to make comments. So, of course, there are a number of ways, and that's not the subject of this law, if we're talking about property tax, about certain ways of taxing citizens to accumulate capital, then surely with that, if you're taxing someone's savings would lead to a possible transfer of that savings to something else, I don't know how smart that would be and how meaningful it would be. As for the esteemed representative Oreskovic, therefore, from the end, mentioned, of course, the controversy that clear questions deserve clear answers, probably then vague questions deserve vague answers, so I wanted to avoid just giving vague answers because I didn't understand the question, I took it as a comment. Of course, by respecting and freedom of speech in this House, it certainly does not apply only to MPs, but also to the promoters. Either right to say something or not to say it. As far as urgency is concerned, I also don't know, as a lawyer, you should know that it's not a matter of proposing that he puts the presidency, or the President of the Parliament, at which point the subject will be discussed. And what is the general urgency? Well, we do because you know it's in art. The second law could read the obligation to transpose certain directives within the time limits set by them. So, in order not to get certain infections, we need to adopt certain laws that are at European level in some cases, so here we are in this debate today in the first reading. Why today, not in two days, not in five days? It's not the Ministry of Finance. It's this High House. As far as the OTC derivative is concerned, there I would absolutely give an answer that is clear and unequivocal. So, realistically speaking about this subject, I did try to give as much plastic as possible to make something as complicated as possible. I can't simplify to absurdity and I can't, but my colleague Lalovac later in communication is not that the data are not exact in that sense when he was talking about 27 billion versus three. It was not 27 billion versus three or specifically in eight entities throughout the year that had 208 million OTC trading, the other 27 nearly billion were government bonds issued by the Ministry of Finance, which the entrepreneurs then communicated to each other. So, here I may put this more liberal position, even if by some kind of vocality, and if I understand your political action that you are liberals, and then I find it incomprehensible that someone from that aspect is asking for greater control of the state against the liberalisation of the capital market, it is not clear to me with that political position, but I allow it to be liberal that it can be both left and right and in economic terms. So just to encourage us to raise the thresholds to avoid administrative burdens, costs which... and previous approvals require from the supervisory authority. So, if we raise some thresholds, it means we liberalize. I can understand that someone has a problem with liberalisation, I didn't expect it from you, but okay, it's a matter of policy in which you can agree or you don't have to. We think in front of the government that it takes these eight different entities that traded in terms of slightly more than 205 million kuna last year to increase whether 200 million to three billion is not exactly adequate and that's something that only last month or last month April is 62% reduced volume over the OTC so over the counter, whatever it translates means that's what I said in the exhibition, direct trading without intermediaries. Why prescribe somewhere that you have to go to the middleman, limit the large normative under the exception of security protection I guess if two business entities know what they want to do to each other without a third intermediary to have extra costs. It's some liberal idea to cut costs to reduce the State's interference and to allow the flow of capital and everything that goes. So these are the three basic questions. I'm sorry that this turns out to be some political debate about the issue of speech, respect for the House and all, and I'd like to say more about matter itself, which is complex, and so I understand that it might be harder to talk about it. Dear Representative Peric, absolutely apostrophe of the most important topics that we wanted to make with these changes and transpose, as far as... The European Commission, as well as those we have introduced, respecting these thresholds, respecting the possibility of encouraging our capital market. As for another topic that happened as we did to encourage, so here's what we have on the one hand in the same speech why you're liberalizing, why you're raising the thresholds to do, on the other hand, what you're doing to encourage yourself. One of the amendments to these laws to how we want to boost the capital market is precisely reducing administrative redundancies, and also by raising the right, prudential requirements, prudential supervision, we take out and separate credit institutions from investment companies all to make it easier to do so, as simple as possible in this crisis period for our business entities and investment companies and those doing these jobs to engage in the capital market, this is one of those measures that we do, plus of course why our citizens no longer participate in the purchase of certain securities on the market itself through improving financial literacy etc., etc. As for the esteemed representative of Lalovac, I was actually just referencing myself on this discrepancy of that data, so 27 billion if we take government bonds, if we take them out, then it's 205 million versus over three billion last year on the stock market of which is actually half the shares of half the bonds. As for the esteemed representative of Troscott, I also think about... NPO, pink chocolates, Sesvete, Sesvetian King, encouraging the giving of some incentives, therefore it should only be recognised by the market itself. I didn't realize that we as a state need direct money to encourage, it's not exactly in line with rules or laws that are more like state interventionism. Of course I believe he didn't mean it, but right now that part of the debate is not related to this bill. Here I think I've passed all these speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49376	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49377	Well, I'll take it outside the box, but don't hold it against me right now. So to your suggestions about this so that we can actually increase investment, since we all locate the same problem, which is therefore a lack of investment then you said you could tax savings, but that wouldn't have a good effect, so I'll just point you out that German private banks have imposed negative interest on so-called. Lears to save that the Slovenians plan to charge money to companies for more than 100,000 euros. Prior to the new Ljubljanska banka with a similar announcement in Italy, Italy's Unicredit means the owner of Zagreb Banka. It's not such foreign moves that can do something, but in any case related to what this particular thing was about what was our own suggestion somewhere that I couldn't get to in my debate is that it's actually going towards socializing finance, so it's substituting the banking sector to the needs of society, not vice versa.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49378	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49379	So, thank you, what you've said these examples is actually just regulation of the market. So when we have that, that are, that inflation is at what level is, and interest on savings is lower then actually de facto someone will charge you if you pay the money they keep. So the manipulative cost of keeping money, taking it and getting bigger than the interest is possible, and that's why we come up with that negative interest, is that they have nothing to do with that money, they can't place it further, so they earn interest on the money market, and then they come up with negative interest because simply these manipulative costs exist, taking and keeping certain regulations that have to be respected from security aspects, of course and other conditions, and therefore lead to these negative interest that actually deter people from saving and then one of those things that might actually be here somewhere in the debate where people go from that capital savings in real estate, is that, then again, encourages some development of the real estate market, but it comes to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49380	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49381	Thank you. Let me just clarify the liberal positions, so any administrative discharge is good, especially the removal of unnecessary administrative obligations. However, this has absolutely nothing to do with the regulatory authority's control and supervisory powers. So liberals also need a secure and stable legal framework and trust in the system. So my question wasn't figured out the way you did it, but my question is, in any way, we're sending a message to the citizens and everyone who wants to join the capital market that HANFA will have appropriate regulatory and supervisory powers, so their investments protect against the risks the market carries?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49382	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49383	The proposal therefore relaxes the reporting obligations of non-financial and other contracting parties on trade in OTC derivatives according to HANFA. So reporting is an administrative obligation that someone has to draw up a report, he has to have his own rules, it requires time, it requires money. We simply here in cooperation with HANFA, so this is not something that we impose on HANFA but vice versa, it is something that the HANFA itself recognized as one of the models to encourage the capital market, therefore, and which in the extreme line took part in making and gave an opinion on this law, so it is not something that they gladly give up their powers because when you don't have to keep drawing up reports, you don't have to have a person who will put each of your transactions together according to certain ropes, rules, spend time, money or hire a broker to do that to you then is de facto discharge and time and money and thus encourages you to do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49384	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed MP, Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49385	Thank you. This proposal amending and supplementing the Market Capital Act focuses mainly on the Agency. I am interested, given that we are an administratively burdened and risky and unattractive investment country, do you think the Agency's work as a competent authority will contribute to the safety of new investors in the capital market? Furthermore, if we look at the information, we see that the market capitalisation of the agricultural sector is in the last 7 years. It fell by more than 80%, and the food sector also suffered a major decline. I personally believe that this is because of the increased imports of agricultural products, and I ask you, will the agency protect this market capitalisation sector more?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49386	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49387	Thank you. So as for the meaning of everything I said at the beginning, I'm going to try to sum it up as quickly as possible. So, the aim of these all directives and regulations is to increase the security and protection of trade, or on the capital market, of course with this last part to encourage in what we ourselves have introduced to encourage a certain part. Absolutely HANFA assumes its supervisory obligations that have been so far, harmonizes them, especially in relation to that part of the stock market itself, there is no longer anything that happened after... or sooner or later, therefore, more or less their obligations will remain the same. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards these, it is also stated in this Capital Market Act as well as trade in commodity derivatives, but this is strictly stated in this section of the recovery package that this does not apply to agricultural products. This is absolutely not, but rather oil, electricity and others, other Commoditis that are the subject of trade, so that the HANFA as such does not participate in the supervision of the trade in agricultural products, but there are other agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49388	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49390	We go to the next point, and it has part a) and b). a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science (a) Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 5. Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State Ivica Šushak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49391	Dear Mr. Vice President, thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science and the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The Croatian Foundation for Science was established with a fundamental purpose of developing and promoting science and technological development in the Republic of Croatia with the ultimate goal of ensuring social and economic development and promoting employment. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science has been established that the Foundation is In the light of the provision of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 5(2) of the Law cited members of the Foundation Management Board shall appoint HS on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the ranks of top scientists, especially those who have world-renowned scientific papers and results, to take care of the representation of all scientific areas. Furthermore, in accordance with the provisions of Art. Paragraph 8(b) of this Annex shall apply. The law, the term of office of members of the Foundation's Supervisory Board, lasts for 5 years with the right to another re-election. As the term of office of 5 years has expired to the members of the Management Board of the Foundation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered the proposal for a decision to resolve members of the Board of Directors of the Academy of Sciences, Dari Vretenara, Prof. dr.sc. Dejana Aydukovica, Prof. Dr. Dragan Poljak, Prof. Dr. Stipan Jonjic, academician Paul Rudan, Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Marks, and Dr. Sc. Smile to Gorita Ban. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science on the basis of the implementation procedure under the published public call. A public invitation to propose candidates for members of the Croatian Foundation for Science has been announced by the Ministry of Science and Education on 12 January 2021, with the deadline of delivery of the proposal by 15 February 2021. The candidates for members of the Management Foundation shall be established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of proposals submitted by public scientific institutes, the Rectoral Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the University Senates, the HAZU, the HGK, employers' associations, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and scientists and members of the academic community on the basis of a publicly published call for candidates. The ministry received a total of 40 proposals for members of the management foundation of which 34 received the proposal met the public conditions of the public call or the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. According to the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the following candidates as members of the Management Foundation: Prof. Dr. Dražena Vikića Topića on the proposal of the University of J. Dobrile in Pula from the scientific field of natural sciences, Prof. Dr. Nikola Uržinski, at the proposal of the Institute of Adriatic Culture and Meliorisation of infringements from the scientific field of technical sciences, academics Željko Kaštelana on the proposal of HAZU from the scientific field of biomedicine and health, Prof. dr. Milan Mesic, proposed by the University of Rijeka from the scientific field of biomedicine and health care, dr. sc. Slavka Pericu on the proposal of several public scientific institutes from the scientific field of biotechnical sciences, van prof.dr.sc. Anamarija Getoš Kalac at the proposal of the University of Zagreb from the scientific field of social sciences and Dr.sc. Happy Kovac at the proposal of the Institute of Philosophy from the scientific field of humanistic science. Here I am also taking the opportunity to thank the President, so far the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Foundation, Dari Vretenar and all the other members of the Management Board of Foundations for their efforts and contribution to the participation in the work of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49392	Thank you. We have two replicas, please remain, the first honourary representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49393	Well, first of all, I'm going to ask you not to deceive the Croatian public. Namely, the members of the Management Board did not expire on 5 years, they expired on an illegal term of office of 8 years because they were not relieved of their duties on time in 2018. For 3 years, the country's most important institution for the future of scientific researchers has been located in an airspace. And how is that possible? So it is possible that the statute of that same trust which should serve as an example of an institution to all other institutions in the country is illegal because it requires that if members do not settle after 5 years, they may remain until they are resolved. Why did you allow such illegal action and wait for the resolution of the members of the foundation in their legal time?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49394	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49395	I thank you for your remarks, Your Honor. The previous administration agreed to the statute of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The term of office, as you said, expired in 2018. However, in the provisions of the statutes, it was said that the term of office lasted until the election or appointment of new members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49396	Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49397	Art. 238, this is not only the demeaning of parliamentary representatives, this is the ultimate demeaning of the Croatian Parliament as such. Instead of being told by the secretary of state that the law would comply with the statute, more specifically the statutes with the law, he had just informed us that the statute could be contrary to the law and that it was perfectly normal. As a legislative body, as part of the legislative body, I really must react to this provocation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49398	Well, you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Glasovac and the vice president of this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49399	Thank you very much. A part of the replica was also mentioned by counterpart Marija Rasdić, however, it is quite rude and bold of you here to demean us and the Croatian Parliament and act as if you are not the Government and not authorized to take care of the legal management and functioning of the foundation, and you are also a representative of the Government who is not you, but any representative of the Government is the key person who was supposed to come here in 2018 before the Croatian Parliament with a proposal on the resolution of members of the administrative trust that expired the mandate and with a proposal for the appointment of new ones. What you should have done here today, which would be a minimum of decency although you would not be deprived of responsibility for breaking the law and apologize to the Croatian public for not doing your job, allowing and violating Croatian laws to be extended to board members for 3 years and to work without any strategic plan for 3 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49400	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49401	Dear MPs, if I have hurt you, I apologize deeply, but I must tell you that the Statute of the Croatian Science Foundation has been amended and supplemented with the consent of the competent authority of the state administration and this was the Ministry of Science and Education, or in accordance with the approval of the administration which gave its consent. The work is under way to amend and supplement the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science and Harmony with the roof law that regulates the work of all foundations and Croatian Foundations for Science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49402	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, no, no. Here you are, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49403	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this is when it comes to these two decisions, hence the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science and Decisions on the appointment of new members in the new five-year term, so the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed and discussed these two proposals at its 17th session held on 20 May of this year, within the meaning of Article 97. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The representative of the committee's proposings pointed out that the members of the Foundation's Management Board had expired their mandate and, in that sense, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Law on the Croatian Science Foundation at its meeting held on 13 May this year, established a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the Management Board of the Foundation, and also at the same session, the Government, on the basis of the procedure under the published public invitation, established a proposal for a decision to appoint new members of the Croatian Foundation for Science. I will therefore remind the Ministry of Science and Education received a total of 40 proposals for members of the board of directors, of which 34 candidates met the conditions of a public call, 4 candidates did not meet the conditions of a public call because at the time of their application they were deans of the university until one candidate met because he is currently a member of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Similarly, during the Committee meeting, the importance of making the decisions in question is highlighted in view of the circumstances of the end of the term of office of the current members of the Management Board of the Foundation, and it is therefore expected that one of the primary objectives of the new administration will be, above all, the adoption of the strategic plan of the Foundation, the independence of the work of the Foundation, the independence of evaluation and the scientific projects and certainly the absorption of funds from the EU funds. And after the discussion was held, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the resolution of the members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science, and also to the majority of the votes he decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation for the next term. And I will still use the opportunity on my own behalf as chairman of the board and on behalf of all the members and members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, to thank all the members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation, led by President Dario Vretenar, so thank the academics Wretenar and members of the Management Board so far, Dr. Dragana Poljak, Dr. Stipana Jonjic, academician Paul Rudan, Dr. Dean Idukovic, Dr. Lily Marks and Dr. Smiling Gorita Ban. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49404	Thank you very much. And now we're going to take a break because we've been working long enough to get windy, so we'll meet back here at 11 o'clock, 12 o'clock and 10 minutes. It's 11:00.55.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49405	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12:13 AM]] I am opening the debate and it is first in line for Mrs. Marija Selak Rasudiæ in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49406	Let's go back to the debate started in replicas. So, in the replica, I found that one deception was made here because it was not up to the members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation that expired from five years of age but had expired their illegal term of eight years. Why? Because they were not relieved in time of their duties in 2018. and selected new members of the Management Board. In response to such an obvious violation of the law, in particular Art. 8th century 1 says "the term of office of members of the Management Board shall be five years with the right to re-election, and then HS shall, on a proposal from the Republic of Croatia or from the Management Board, resolve a member" etc. The answer is that it is not contrary to the law because there is a statute of trust, its art. 19th, which says "if members of the Management Board expire their mandate and HS", be careful as if it is our fault that we have not relieved them of our duties "the board members will carry out their duty until a decision on a new appointment of members". HS was unable to relieve anyone of his duties because he had not received a new proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia or from the Management Board. The Management Board has an illegal statute that is in direct contrast with a concrete and precise legal provision that says that the term of office is a five-year point, not if, in this case, five years. Five years is not eight years. If it doesn't matter what five years it takes to use the Secretary of State's logic, then why are new members now elected, why ever choose new members, so it can be eight, nine, ten, fifty says the statute until we remember to choose a new one. Why even mention those five years? Secondly, in response to my replica, I was told that the authority of the administrative authority was to make contradictions greater, it approved the statute. When we talk about a senior management body, we're talking about the administrative body of the same government that is now here to protect a statute like this and this illegal appointment of new members after eight years. Okay, so on the one hand we heard that the administrative body approved such a statute that is contrary to the law, that the paradox be greater we came to the HS legislative body to propose members contrary to the law. But this same secretary of state told us that it is working to bring the statutes in line with the new legislation that will apply to the HAZU. If this regulation is in order and you said it was approved by the administrative body, then why are you working on its compliance with the new regulations? So in the second sentence, you yourself denied the correctness of your argument that should justify such an illegal selection of board members. What is the problem that board members are not selected in time? In addition to the first-class problem relating to the illegality of such an act and the fact that they themselves have called upon the statute to contribute to this, probably assuming that they will be able to extend their mandate while it suits them because otherwise, such a constitutional provision. The Management Board should offer a strategic plan within six months when it comes to power. This was the last strategic plan since 2014-2018. So for the last three years we do not have a strategic plan or vision of HAZU development more precisely a simpler vision of developing the financing of Croatian scientific research because HAZU is a key institution that enables financing, and thus even the existence of important ones. only funding for domestic scientific projects. So for three years we've been floating in an air-breathed space, people who weren't allowed to do it decided on who to give the huge money, and at the same time they didn't offer a vision for this period that would justify such a dedicated spending of funds. So the problem is double. There has been no strategic plan in the past three years, so there are no arguments based on which these funds were to be allocated to certain projects because they are not in line with any strategic plan, since it is not available for that period. To be cynical, I will mention that exactly the previous strategic plan that highlights weaknesses and shortcomings in Croatia's scientific structure, as well as threats and dangers listed just as a threat and danger, an unstable legislative framework with laws that are often changed. So, you are alone, the Management Board of the HAZU has written itself a strategic plan in which it has critically referred to the work of the legislative body and legislative regulations and it is true that it is one of the biggest problems in Croatia, and at the same time you have contributed to the chaos and legal uncertainty by denying the legal provisions which clearly did not work in your favor. Furthermore, in order to speak at all about the work of previous members of the Management Board or to confirm the appointment of new members, we should say something about how much strategic objectives have been achieved. The objectives set out here are, but there is nothing we can know about this because, to begin with, the period from 2014 to 2018 should be separated from this empty space when, without a strategy, the money has been allocated to the Smytheian. When we talk about the Croatian Foundation for Science, we should highlight what the scientific community points out, and these are 3 key objections to its work. The first is that the scientific community is not involved in the development of a strategic plan, a plan that should determine what its priorities are and what should be financed. Secondly, the objections of those who receive funding projects from the Croatian Foundation for Science are enormous and illogical administrative requirements. And the third objection, very often in our scientific space, refers to the intransparency of evaluation. I would like to remind you that various research has been done on the quality of the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science, for example... 2018. from the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar who highlighted the defeating work of the Croatian Foundation for Science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, more recent research has been done,... In 2020 on the project leaders' views, so they say, I will quote to Bezevan as problems of extensive red tape, virtual abuse, facelessness in communication, arbitration transparency, absolute authority and pointless demands of the Foundation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course we need more investment in science. Of course we need to actively lobby so that it increases. We also need tax incentives that will allow easier and more frequent investment in science. However, first of all, a key institution for the financing of scientific projects in Croatia, which leads to positive European experiences, is being set up to facilitate and encourage the work of the Croatian scientific community. In that sense, we can say that this institution has failed in its foundations. She failed because she allowed arbitrary treatment of members of the Management Board beyond the legal framework. What is particularly controversial is that the failure is not even recognised here in the fundamental and only legislative body in Croatia, but is denied by contradictory arguments. All we can claim after that is carefully following, participating in these discussions in HS that this is not an exception, but becomes a rule that legal frameworks are very often broken, reports are not delivered on time, for example, a report on European funds, that I do not list further, and no one is responsible for this. There's no penalizing for this kind of breach, so I'm afraid some particular epilogue we're not going to experience right now. I can only express hope that the newly elected leadership of the Foundation will offer a new strategic plan within the legal deadline and that it will do better and in accordance with legal regulations than it was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49407	Now it's Mr. Damir Bakic's turn in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49408	... Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. [[Specially enabled.]] The Croatian Foundation for Science is the central and most important place for funding scientific research in the Republic of Croatia, it provides support for both basic and applied and developmental research which is of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. In 2019, we still don't have a full report for 2020. In 2019, the Foundation funded 571 domestic research projects, 34 international research projects, 134 young researchers were funded on projects of the Foundation, 474 PhDs. In total, almost 200 million kuna was paid by the Foundation in 2019. It is quite clear that it is an institution of utmost importance for our science, not only at present but also strategic. As a result, then the Management Board of the Foundation should also choose persons, not only from the greatest scientific authority and reputation, but also the ethics of which has never been questioned. And indeed, the law on the Foundation in Art. 5 says members of the Management Board of the Foundation appoint HS on a proposal from the Government from the ranks of top scientists, especially those who have world-renowned works and results. And it's good that it is because it is. 6 says the Foundation's Management Board has great responsibilities and great tasks. It adopts the statutes, adopts the annual work programme and the financial plan, makes decisions on the allocation of funds, decides on the use of assets, proposes a strategic plan, etc., etc. On February 10th of this year, I referred a parliamentary question to the prime minister, a written question, since I knew that we were being followed by the selection of members of the Management Board of the Foundation, also, and the Committee on Ethics, Science and Higher Education. A written question that I asked him if the Government in that election, or appointment, would establish any quantifiable criteria and, if so, I asked him to specify them. A month and a half later, Prime Minister Plenkovic's response arrived. An unbearablely easy answer, completely ignoring the content of my question, Prime Minister Plenkovic wrote on two pages of the text that the government would respect the law. The criteria for which we have asked, however, are lagging behind as well as any explanation. We've received confirmation of a list of 7 people elected by Minister Fuchs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know what's more worrying. The fact that Minister Fuchs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia may think that this is exactly the team of seven top scientists with world-renowned works and results, or perhaps the fact that Minister Fuchs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia know that this is not such a team and yet from other motives suggest it. They're proposing these seven candidates. The Institute for Adriatic Culture and Violation proposed that he be a member of the Management Board of the Foundation Dr. Nikola Ruzhinski. The current chairman of the board of directors of the institute is shot by Dr. Nikola Ruzynski. I find this behaviour unethical, but in my opinion, this application, or this proposal, should have been disqualified. Not from formal legal conditions, of course, but it was required to disqualify it according to some of the criteria that we had to set up to choose this committee ethically. And the criteria have not been put in place, while mildly speaking, the previous action of Dr. Nikole Ruzynski in the management of the science and higher education system cannot possibly be assessed by the best grades, but as Prime Minister Plenkovic would say in his answer to my parliamentary question, this appointment is fully in line with the law. I don't know, however, is it in line with the law by Prime Minister Plenkovic that an extraordinary professor, Anamarija Getos Kalac, is proposed in the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation. She's a colleague of mine. I repeat, she's an extraordinary teacher and she's the head of a project that's just been set up at the foundation. It is not a title by itself guarantee, but the lack of the most title especially in the light of the article that I have quoted raises strong suspicions because if the person proposed by the board of trusts does not have the most scientific and scientific teaching title, then only two can be possible or it is a brilliant scientific contribution whose pace far exceeds its pace of progress or other motives. And if a colleague were a top scientist with world-renowned works and results, and still only in calling an extraordinary teacher, we would have long known about these brilliant world values and results both ourselves and that world. And to be sadder and sadder, it should also be known that a colleague is proposed by the University of Zagreb, based on a Senate decision from one of those sessions held in Orgalian style without debate with an e-mail vote. The proposal came in signed by the rector Boras, the same rector who reports to Minister Fuchs through the media that he does not want to provide him with the required documentation on cases he does not want. Why is it that Minister Fuchs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, despite all this, is being proposed by Professor Getosh Kalac, and why is the university even proposing to Professor Getosh Kalac? Are there any arrangements or pleas or hidden connections? We'll find out. And everything would have been so much easier if you and Prime Minister Plenkovic and you and Minister Fuchs wanted to present to the public and the academic community any criteria or criteria on the basis of which you proposed these people, but you didn't because you didn't even want to have criteria and measures because you wanted to choose freely. With this proposal, you're doing enormous damage to the trust. A damage that may not be visible and recognized by tomorrow, but next year for sure. This is the fact of the damage and Croatian science. On the contrary. All those wonderful declarations written in the national development strategy and recovery plan and resilience. How, then, can we trust your attachment to science in particular to the progress of science, and then especially to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49409	Now it's Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartulic's turn to represent the House of Commons Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49410	Thank you very much. Respected state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs are not disputed, so Croatia has this national institution, therefore the foundation for science, and it is not disputed that it grows over the years, increases the amounts the foundation has. And we certainly support investing in scientific research, in young scientists as well as in other countries. It is necessary for our people to survive, and we think that it should be welcomed in principle. However, what I will talk about is more about the outcomes of these projects, we heard colleague Bakic mention from 2019 over 500 projects, more than 30 international projects. So we are interested in the Homeland Movement because the fact is that the situation is not the best in this area of science. Why am I saying that? Because many young scientists simply leave Croatia and don't see enough reason to stay here, and besides, we're not in the last 30 years. It has succeeded in developing a model that would attract foreign scientists, so we are not a country that is the destination of leading scientists in the world. There are occasionally good conferences, scientific gatherings and so forth, but the fact is and the indicators confirm that we have not become an attractive destination for these leading people we need. From my own experience, I will say that my colleagues will complain repeatedly about the intransparency of the evaluation of these proposed projects, however, the same demanding administration. In Croatian science, there seems to be one tendency of hyper red tape where a lot of time is spent on meeting various patterns and similar requirements, and in human terms, hiring people, and science in some ways is not at the centre of focus. However, when it comes to tax money, if about 200 million kuna are spent or slightly less in a year, it is very important how it is available. I don't like to simply apply foreign models to Croatia, but it could be said that it is undeniable that in America there is scientific excellence, and even great competition among universities, there is great mobility of people and many of the best actually scientists from all areas come to the country to achieve their visions, plans, ambitions and so forth. And how does that work out there? Like what? and in the administrative councils of these institutions are not only excellent scientists with excellent biographies and the like, but there are also individuals from the real sector, from the economy. For example, for this topic, I studied the current state a little bit, the main research person in the big corporation IBM is the same member of the science foundation in America. Why is that? Because it doesn't matter how the market, or corporations, companies, companies, or medium-sized enterprises, small businesses, see if they'll benefit from the end line of these projects. It doesn't matter, it's actually very important because at the end of the day when money is spent, the question is whether something has been achieved in accordance with the objectives set, and I think it's one of the main goals in Croatia to get closer or the priority to actually bringing the real economy closer to the needs of our economy with the scientific community and it's going too slowly, too slowly. Sometimes it seems to me that the scientific community functions a little bit isolated as a closed world from the rest and it's not good if they manage these money and decide on projects exclusively, only scientists as good as they are and as much as they've proven themselves in their work, I think it takes a new one to say, "Mix or mix of people from different areas." After all, it is about our money, so the money created in Croatia, and I think we have a big problem with the management of these resources, so the outcomes and results don't really reflect, they don't really reflect how much it's invested, so this Cost-Benefit analysis is not good, we don't have time to go deep into the interpretation of why it is, but we think it would be good to think a little outside the box... And for future inclusion of people from different sectors of life, not just from the scientific community, as counterintuitive as it seems, I think that would lead to a shift in the work of this foundation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's my opinion. So to conclude, he would not now enter these past mandates and deadlines that have certainly been broken, but in principle he asked whether the money that is allocated for the approval of various scientific projects, was that money properly, in a fair way, and in accordance with national interests spent? It's a key question, I'd like to hear more about the outcomes of these projects, I know there's a lot of them, often it's just listed in the annual reports, so it's hard to get that real picture. However, it seems to me that we can do better, we can certainly do much better. And in the end, it doesn't matter how this foundation works. We're losing the race with others not only economically, but I'm also afraid in this field of science. Many of our young experts, from doctors further simply after the state paid for their education, go abroad for various reasons. It will not be possible to prevent or completely prevent, we are aware of it, we are aware the world is great and people have different visions and plans, but we need to do more to keep actually the best and ultimately it is a key thing for the survival of Croatian and Croatian people and I think that this foundation can play a very good role only if the criteria change a little bit and put things in place a little bit. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49411	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vice-President Sabina Vosovac in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education. To come before HS the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia and the only legislative body in the Republic of Croatia and the dead cold to propose a proposal that de facto is a confirmation of the violation of the law that has passed this HS is at least scandalous and completely inappropriate. To justify that the foundation, the Croatian Science Foundation has changed the statutes, and we all know that the steering levers in the hands of the ministry, if you want to translate as the state body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is either completely ignorant of the system or even more insolent than this first one I have stated. The Croatian Foundation for Science and what hurts me, I am not offended by Mr. Secretary of State when you said "I am sorry if I offended you", you did not insult me, there is no room for emotion here, but first of all, when we remove our emotions from the side we are parliamentary representatives, people who, above all, need to respect Croatian law. You didn't insult me, you didn't hurt me, but you broke Croatian law or you were 3 years old. You looked kindly at it and it's your responsibility and there's no discussion at all about it, that's what this document says. So to the members of the foundation that you are proposing today as a promoter on behalf of the government, we need to resolve, the term of office expired in May 2018. and there is no excuse that beyond the law that mandate has been extended to this day and that you are only coming before HS today with a request to resolve the same members and appoint new members. And no, this isn't the case. Why? Well, we and this Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, remember, a committee that became famous unfortunately for one infamous episode in the life of former Minister Pave Barisic, precisely this Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education questioned the potential plagiarism of former Minister Barisic. And not only his, it was his job to deal with honesty in higher education and science. After the infamous episode took place with former Minister Barisic, whose impeachment we as the opposition to this proposed SDP and sought in HS, the prime minister of course did not give it, but later, Minister Barisic became the former. After that, the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education has been simply deadened, evicted and euthanized since June 2018. He's lost every lead. Why am I saying this isn't a coincidence? Because also members of the Management Board of the Science Foundation and members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education are actually 2018. here somewhere in May, June, it stopped what replaced every lead or in this legality when we talk about the mandates of members of the foundation or in the work when we talk about members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education. And look, you know when a public call was issued for new members of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education? The same in January 2021. as well as for members of the Management Board of the Science Foundation. There's nothing random about that, 3rd year. Here's the illegal letting something be done, and here's the 3rd. silence, ignoring and killing actually one body that needs to be kept in mind about the integrity and respect of scientific norms in the system of higher education and science. Nothing of this is by chance, so the MPs prepare soon to come and propose members of the new Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education, they hope that we have forgotten everything that happened with the previous committee that made it impossible for him to work, so here we are, when he dared to question the work of a scientist who, as a matter of fact, became a Croatian minister. That's not a good way to go. This may make you think that you are helping HDZ, some structures, but you are not helping, you are vindicting Croatia. Simply such a modus operandi is harmful, especially when it comes from the ministries that all the young people of this country look at, it's kind of a model, it's kind of their main house in the education system, from preschool to primary school, high school, to higher education. It's bad messages, it's long-term harmful, don't do it, please stop doing it. Let's move on now, so as a state, we've done everything we can to strengthen the Science Foundation and in 2013 we've actually taken this first step, which is to train the foundation, isolate it, and give it greater importance in a way that the funding of the Foundation is actually national, financed by national scientific research projects, on its own, according to established criteria at a professional level. So it was kind of authorized by the ministry and dedicated to the foundation in 2014 that the foundation was added another additional authority, which is to care for the financing of the development of young researchers' careers. And that's the step we made. We have not made an additional step in terms of providing funds for the functioning of not the foundation itself, but simply means that we should encourage research and development, thereby returning some added value to both the system and the economy system, but I hope that in the coming period we will work a little more, especially when we consider that we also have a National Development Strategy until 2030, but also a plan of resilience and recovery based on the huge resources available to us and for the R & D system, which is not yet completed but has been directed towards European institutions. However, what is illogical is that this board of directors or trusts has been working for 3 years without a five-year strategic plan that was required to adopt, but as you are not as a mandate, we haven't had a strategic five-year foundation plan since 2018, and that's bad. Because this means that the foundation has little or no part in the creation of strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia which are the National Development Strategy until 2030 and on the other hand the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. This is the wrong way, and in fact they should have been the ones who listen to the research space, the scientific space and thus create national policy because it is ultimately one of the powers of the ministry and of the day, even though the state authorities determine scientific policy and priorities and provide budgetary resources. That's not good at all, and you've brought it back to this again by the end of your term. So for 3 years, people have worked without a legal mandate and without a strategic plan and without, say, a report for the last year of 2020. The Croatian Parliament. And this strategic plan was supposed to come to the Croatian Parliament in 2018, and it should have been proposed by just the newly appointed members that we have appointed today. And thirdly, when we talk about selecting frames, it's also not something I can support. So of the 40 candidates you're proposing seven members and members of the board of directors of the Science Foundation. As some of my predecessors have already said, we are not sure that in this way the legal preconditions on territorial representation are met, but also on the representation of all scientific areas. Personally, as a layman, it is illogical for me to say that as many as 2 out of 7 are representatives of the Institute of Adriatic Culture and Melioration, and let's say, for example, I'm now going to drum from the Ruđer Boskovic Institute for them there is no room or any other institute, here they are even represented by 2. Also, the University of Zagreb, the Rector Boras who ignores both the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Science and Education and the Committee, the parliamentary committee that discussed the situation at the University of Zagreb, so that he is not embarrassed now to ask us for trust for his candidate, and we do not want to come here or come, to participate in the work and talk with us about the situation at the University of Zagreb. I don't know how he's just not embarrassed, and now we're asking for the trust of the candidate he's personally signing, we said on behalf of the Senate that we know what session. And I end up, it's unlikely that 2 out of these 7 candidates are former or state secretaries or deputy ministers in HDZ's governments, obviously it was one of the essential criteria that doesn't really exist, but Obviously, this is some kind of silent criterion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49413	Thank you. Ms. Vesna Bedekovic will represent the position of the club of representatives, the positions of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49414	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here are two proposals, two decisions on the resolution and the other on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation, for which it must first of all repeat that its work and its establishment is governed by the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, which regulates that the Croatian Science Foundation is founded with a fundamental purpose of developing science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, and certainly with the ultimate goal of ensuring social and economic development and employment. In order to achieve its fundamental purpose, the Foundation shall provide financial support to scientific, higher education and technology programmes and projects and, of course, support for international cooperation in the field of science and higher education and this support shall include, in particular, funding and basic and applied and developmental scientific research on topics of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, the foundation grants scholarships to post-graduates, post-doctorands and experts in the economy as well as experts in scientific, scientific and higher education institutions in the Republic of Croatia, and the foundation also calls for competitions for scientific projects and programmes in accordance with national strategic documents for the development of science, on the basis of which it conducts the application, evaluation of supervision and evaluation of funded projects and co-operational scientific programmes. In this respect, I will note that both the conditions and the procedures for the application, evaluation and finalisation of scientific projects and programmes have been established by the general act of the Foundation, with the process of evaluation being carried out through an independent scientific review with the aim of assessing and quality of the projects reported and then their priorities. It has been said so far, I will repeat, of course, the trust fund is managed by the board of directors who, of course, is the subject of today's debate. The Management Board shall adopt the statutes of the Foundation, the Rules of Procedure on all works, the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions and procedure of the allocation of funds for the purpose of the Foundation, as well as the Management Board shall make decisions on the allocation of funds, manage, oversee the management of the activities of the Foundation, decide on the use of the Foundation's assets, submit reports on the work of the Foundation to the Croatian Assembly and shall certainly carry out certain other tasks in accordance with the law and the statute of the Foundation. What is important to repeat, the Foundation's Management Board proposes to the Croatian Assembly and the strategic plan of the foundation for the five-year period during which the objectives and programmes are developed which are in line with the long-term strategic direction of development of the Republic of Croatia, and certainly this strategic plan recognises and develops priority scientific areas, in particular in order to strengthen the integration of the Croatian scientific system into the European Research Area, but also in order to link scientific research with innovation and production processes and ensure conditions for the use of European funds for the field of science and innovation. It has already been said, I will only repeat, so the Management Board of the Foundation according to the law, has a president and has seven members, therefore appointed by the Croatian Parliament, on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, therefore, candidates for the President and members of the Management Board of the Foundation, determines the Government of the Republic of Croatia, taking into account the representation of scientific areas after which members of the Management Board who are therefore appointed among themselves are elected by the two deputy chairmans of the Management Board and by the majority of the total number of board members. And as already noted, on the basis of a public call from the Ministry of Science and Education, a total of 40 proposals were received for members of the Board of Directors, of which 34 candidates met the conditions of a public call, 4 candidates did not meet the conditions of a public call because at the time of application they were deans of individual higher education institutions of the university and 1 candidate did not meet the conditions of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, which is contrary to the conditions set out in the law. In accordance with the Croatian Science Foundation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established at its meeting held on 13 May a proposal for a decision on the dilution of members of the Management Board, which is also the subject of one of today's decisions, hence the resolution of former members of the Academy of Sciences, Dari Vretenara, Dr. Dragan Poljak, Dr. Stipan Jonjic, academician Paul Rudan, Dr. Dejana Aydukovica, Dr. Liliane Marks and Dr. Smiljane Gorita Ban. And the subject of our second proposal today's decision is the appointment of new members of the Foundation Management Board, so on the basis of the procedure under the published and public invitation where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore identified one proposal for the members of the Management Board of Foundations to be appointed by Dr. Drazen Vikić Topić on the proposal of the University of J. Dobrile in Pula, scientific field of natural science, dr. Nikola Užinski, at the proposal of the Institute of Adriatic Culture and Melioration of infringements from the scientific field of technical sciences, then academician Željko Kaštelan at the proposal of the University of Rijeka, scientific field of biomedicine and health, then Dr. Milan Mesic at the proposal of the University of Rijeka, scientific field of biomedicine and health care, then Dr. Slavko Perica on the proposal of the Institute for Adriatic Culture and Cross Melioration, Agricultural Institute of Osijek and the Croatian Forest Institute from the scientific field of biotechnical sciences, then Dr Anamarija Getoš Kalac at the proposal of the University of Zagreb from the scientific fields of social sciences, etc. Srecko Kovač on the proposal of the Institute of Philosophy from the scientific field of humanistic science. Finally, the HDZ Representative Club will support the proposal for these two decisions. I use the opportunity on behalf of all parliamentary representatives and MPs, of course, members and members of the HDZ Club, to thank the members of the board of directors of the foundation at the head with the President of the Academy, Daria Wretenar, and to the President, so also to all members of the board of directors so far, Dr. Dragan Poljak, Stipan Jonjic, academician Paul Rudan, Dr. Dejan Idukovic, Dr. Lily Marks and Dr. Smiljani Goreta Ban, at their dedicated work in their term of office, and I would certainly like to point out that the HDZ Club supports first and foremost, so as soon as possible, the strategic plan of the foundation is adopted in accordance with the law and also supports the independence of the work of the foundation, the independence of the evaluation of the notified scientific projects, and we certainly support the absorption of funds from EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49415	You, too. Now we're moving on to individual debates and it's Mrs. President's turn. Dalia Oreshkovic. And sorry, sorry, on behalf of the club, yes. The Center and Voice Representatives Club, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49416	The fact that we are in a situation where the ruling state does not respect it itself, the fact that for 3 years the law has been broken, that it is late with the competition, and that no one is responsible for it, both criminally or politically, and therefore there is no responsibility and any internal control system, shows that we, as a state, are not yet fully formed in the sense of that word. But here I think the main problem, although it is about the appointment in the system of science, is the same as if it were some appointment in the system of justice or any other appointment by the Croatian Parliament as an institution. And that is the problem of trust in the criteria by which the selection selection is conducted between the candidates who have arrived. So we need to understand that it is not just us who address each other, with each of our actions, with every decision made by this assembly as an institution that we address citizens, but also those here in a particular case from the academic community system who should trust that these bodies are chosen or that they suggest the appointment of the best among them. And it is difficult to defend that this criterion of scientific excellence exists among the proposed candidates. It seems to me that the criteria of scientific excellence and honesty, ethics and morality have become a forgotten concept. And it is forgotten that both in science and in all other areas where this assembly is elected by the leaders. So the system of criteria is gone, the system of values is gone, the objectiveization system we're conducting is gone. Where are our tables of scientific papers achieved, where our tables are the number of quotes of scientific papers or the impact of proposed candidacys in the system of science in which they work and in which they work. How can we defend such a choice more when a link can be found for individual candidates with a political party that has a political majority in both the board implementing the selection selection of candidates and the parliament itself. If this assembly does not have valuable criteria, if there is no objective criteria under which a selection procedure is carried out, if we do not have the criteria of excellence, honesty, ethics and morality, this means that this assembly as an institution does not have the same value anymore. There's one thing I've been saying on the political scene all along, just one in a series of kidnapped institutions kidnapped by HDZ. And the first reform that we need to implement, and you know that I am very much in favour of the system of reforms both in the area of the judiciary and in the area of electoral legislation and in the area of territorial structure. However, the first reform to begin with is the reform of this very system of values, the establishment of metricocracy, that means selecting candidates on the basis of their professional, professional and then moral merits because such a state does not serve and no longer needs anyone other than HDZ members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49417	And to you, and now truly individual debates, is the first Mrs. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49418	So the Croatian Foundation for Science is an institution founded to promote science, higher education, technology, so it was founded to support science, higher education, technological projects. It has this two-level project review process which also means that international scientists are involved in this.../incomprehensible... process and domestic scientists in this panel evaluation, but many scientists are dissatisfied with this primary function which they believe the foundation does not realize, and also with this selection itself and the process in which they claim to be intransparency and bias of these particularly anonymous domestic experts, and very often those who fall among those quoted by these very criteria of international visibility fall out of the first circle, are eliminated from these scientists on these panel evaluations. However, some are also, some research has been carried out, for example, by the Institute of Social Sciences study Ivo Pilar in 2018, which states that the views of respondents in the contribution of the Croatian Foundation for Science, are defeating the scientific work. So research shows that the reform of the scientific system has led to its collapse, and particularly critical points include the quality of the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science. Furthermore, the Law Faculty's violence research laboratory conducted an online survey of scientists feeling themselves in communication with red tape, so half of them led them to believe that cooperation with the law was mostly exposed to nonsense, 40% said they felt helpless, 25% that they felt revolutionized. So we also have a proposed member of this council who herself has dealt with this dissatisfaction, the Anamarija Getos Kalac Foundation, who conducted the survey and made a study of dissatisfaction in order to become the subject of the Foundation's Committee for Scientific Honesty and subject to the penalties of this committee for easier violation of scientific integrity, although it is necessary to be cautious in the conclusion, we do not have all the information in this case but also any case the condemnation of a scientist who has done a study that shows dissatisfaction with the trust, certainly opens up room for doubt in this assessment of the trust. What is important is that we are here and in this process faced with the same problems as we had with this appointment of members of the National Science Council, by the way means the Committee on Science was not held or the debate on these candidates was just voted on, again the question is whether these are the best candidates if we say that in this National Science Council appointed the HDZ when Đuro Navro, co-owner of Infobipa with a shameful director's résumé of not a single text card, Roberto Kutic and the director of Young Pejakovic's Atlantic Group, if all science is thought to be entrepreneurship and IT, then we really feel bad about it. We have some old HDZ personnel here again, and it is already said, some of them are both professors at the university and state officials who are suspected of eating, that they provide project assignments to their co-workers from their university, as mentioned by counterpart Bakic, which is the case of Ružinski, who is therefore a name, who has been accused of intervening in environmental impact studies for the recovery of waste disposal sites and the construction of golf courses, especially, and here it is evident what is said, that it is about the man proposed by the Institute whose director, is he. It's supposed to be disqualifying, but unfortunately it's not, right? So again here we can say that we have members who can be asked whether they are the best for this function, we have a member for whom Ruđer Boskovic's employees say, Drazen Vicic Topic, say he is thoroughly familiar with the state of the institute and problems in natural science but has never responded, in this case, so I am afraid that the situation as with the National Science Council is repeated again, that people who are highly networked and who will not advocate what should be the initial tasks of the foundation, which is what we said at the beginning, means promotion of science and promotion of Croatian scientists in the international community and general science.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49419	Mr. Arsen Bauk, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49420	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I may not be able to replicate directly to you, but when the topic of science is generally known what science has said about adoptions of same-sex families and how last week, Vice President Radin and I had an unnecessary debate about the rights of same-sex families, I am using this opportunity to call on Vice President Radin to reach a conclusion together that calls on the Ministry of Family to withdraw his appeal to the ruling of the Administrative Court and so that our argument, which is already gay friendly, ends in one useful way for me, him and the people to whom this argument has been applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49421	First, it was a replica, so it's Mrs. Devereaux's answer. Peovic, then I'll answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49422	Well, I think it would be time for you to answer that, but we don't have what you'd say, we don't have the basis for such a debate in the Rules of Procedure. I can take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49423	Since we don't have a Rules of Procedure for this kind of discussion, then we'll continue this debate for the coffee that Mr. Bauk promised for the first time in his life that he'll pay for it, okay? And... Yes, of course. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Always ready to cooperate on the adoption of children of same-sex marriages, [[Invadica Peovic: But this coffee has a basis in the Rules of Procedure.]] I'm gonna have to give you a heads-up, and you're gonna get your tie done again. [[Attack Bauk: And Katarina will get coffee because she served as a medium.]] Please don't. Vice President, Mrs. President. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Peović, I agree with you in this work that we are not sure what criteria are actually selected proposals that were put before the Croatian Parliament today, but you have singled out very interesting names in this context, that is Mr Ružinski and Mr Vicic Topic. You have already listed for Mr. Ruzhinski, the man is retired, retired, he has de facto run himself, there are also serious doubts about the abuse of position, I will say so and for Mr. Vikiæ Topić you have actually mentioned this inaction in responding to some negative trends in science itself. However, it is obvious that these two qualify one thing with this fact that Mr. Ruzhinski was the assistant minister of '93. '95. and Deputy Minister of '95. Until '00. in the HDZ Government and Mr Vicić Topic as State Secretary from 2005 to 2010. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49425	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49426	Well, thank you for saying that, I mean, the facts right now, to say the least, be suspicious because we have this pattern with HDZ that it's not just a matter of being, I wouldn't actually be moralized about someone having a party's membership card because it really shouldn't be disqualified by scientists who run for some functions and not just anyone in Croatian society, even though it's so fashionable, when you have a membership card, it's safe to have some benefits, which, in my opinion, is also a very dangerous general mantra, which, in fact, ultimately, puts the parties themselves in a position to imply that they're corrupt, that they're full of opportunists who take those membership cards to get rich, that they get some benefits, but in the case of HDZ, we can say that this case is also what you're saying, and it's true of interest, although it's contrary to say, It's not very legitimate. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49427	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Puljak is on her way now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49428	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will read again from the law which is the purpose of the Croatian Foundation for Science and who manages the Foundation. The Fund is therefore set up with a fundamental purpose of developing and promoting science and technological development in the Republic of Croatia and with the ultimate aim of ensuring sustainable social and economic development, with the promotion of employment and the principles of social inclusion. In order to achieve its Foundation, it shall provide support to the basic applied and developmental scientific research which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia through the financing of scientific projects of research grants to the next Framework Group of Programmes and then shall be listed. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 5 it is said that, therefore, the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, it is said that the Foundation is managed by the Management Board of the Foundation which has 7 members and is now, here, interestingly read, members of the Management Board of the Foundation appointed HS to the Government's proposal from the ranks of top scientists, especially those who have world-renowned scientific papers and results, taking into account the representation of all scientific areas. The candidates for members shall be established on the basis of proposals submitted by the scientific institutes, the Registrar Assembly, the University Senates, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Chamber of Commerce, employers' associations, the National Council for the Scientific Area and academic community scientists on the basis of a publicly published call. So it's about excellence. The members of the Management Board are wanted by top scientists with an internationally recognised career. I'd say this proposal that's ahead of us doesn't meet that legal requirement. Here, if we go from one candidate to another and look at their contribution and therefore, whether they are top scientists, so Mr. Zužinski has several works in English, in 2009, academic Kaštelan does not even mention scientific papers, but therefore states the town of Zapresic's award, Perica H-index 12, 414 quotes, for comparison, Mr. Jonjic, who has been in the past 2 mandates, H-index 51, 8 600 quotes, 2 works where the first authors have 2500 quotes, Mrs. Kalac, therefore we find only here, 2 papers, led the cooperation group of Max Institute in Croatia, but is actually more known as mentor to young Karl Ressler. The blacksmith, a few papers, so these are the people who are proposed for members of the board of directors. Sir, if you Google a bit, and Mr. Nikola Ruzhinski, he's more famous in the media, so you have him as someone who actively participated in Mrs. Ruzhinski's wealth. Nevenka Tudjman, daughter of the first Croatian president. Here are known, the affairs in which he participated, the construction of telecommunications devices in his ministry at the time, the assignment of jobs to companies that then paid the commission to Mrs. Tudjman. So these are the people who are proposed to be board members here, and by law they are required to be top scientists, those who have world-renowned scientific papers. On the Science Committee, we got a list of all reported, 40, about 30 seemed to me, 34 or 36 met the conditions, however, we do not know that of those 34 who met the conditions, under which these people were chosen. So we got some sort of scoring chart, there's no evaluation, but we got their names, and what can we conclude? We can only conclude that these are, again, a list of similar people who, I say, have spoken to us on the Committee on Science as you do now, so you talk about some criteria, people need to know how to attract EU money, that's actually the most important thing. Okay, then put in law those who know how to attract EU money. Unfortunately, however, the law says top scientists, especially those who have world-renowned scientific papers and results. Of those who are proposed, I don't see anyone having world-renowned scientific results nor that he's a top scientist. Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49429	... Mrs. Devereaux. [[Specially enabled.]] Peovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49430	I'm just wondering if there was a debate on the Committee on Science at all, given that the situation when the National Science Council members were elected was such that the debate was not even held, as I understand it, but you just got the résumés and it was said that everyone at home could read the résumé.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49431	No, no, no, no, first it's this one, first it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure on what Mrs. Peovic. - Mrs. Crescent. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49432	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of HS, I feel called Committee President, namely, my colleague, Peović Barata, is not a member of the Committee and is not familiar with the Committee's work and has not been to that session. I think he's hurt. 238 for the sake of falseness, because it is not true that the committee, which it speaks of, was not conducted and that no debate was allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49433	Thank you very much, ma'am. Bedekovic. You will know for yourself that it was a replica, that 238 does not speak of the truth... Read it, don't talk about the truth. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't talk about truth, unfortunately. I didn't write it. It was written by large parties Now you can answer [[Is it okay if I do?]] You have a warning. [[Intruder: I can respond to the replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49434	So here it is, perhaps. Bedekovic and I weren't on the same board, I was this one, on Wex, so I may not have heard everything, but I didn't threaten to discuss these members, so first of all, in the materials that we got, we only got the résumés of selected members, so we also got the résumés of all the candidates who applied, but what we asked for, the criteria by which of those 34 that met the basic conditions, so by which criteria of 34, the ones who have now been proposed here were selected. So the answer to that question, unfortunately we didn't get it. So someone's eeny, a stove, a brick, and they're these candidates, so we don't have some sort of scoring table, they're looking for top scientists by that and that criterion, these are the ones that fall into that criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49435	- Mrs. Crescent. Bedekovic, another violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The re-injury of the Rules of Procedure, a well-known colleague, knows that the panel mentioned has held a debate, that the debate is allowed, that it has obtained all the material as well as all the other representatives, and I think it might be useful for the distinguished colleagues in the opposition to study the procedure and the way the procedure goes, when the committee does not choose members but to get appointed members by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49437	Thank you very much. I have to give you a warning again because it was a replica and a replica, but you didn't give me a replica. As I'm telling you, it's not my fault that I have such a Rules of Procedure, but let's not abuse it, it's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and you know, it's a replica. That's all right, let's move on. Mr. Damir Bakic, that's a second warning, of course, Damir Bakic in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, please. And then I'll take the liberty of asking you one question at the end, please. If you'll excuse me. [[Intruding Granny: We can do it right now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49438	Of course, absolutely. First of all, let me just say... Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that the discussions on the committee were different from the debate that was left behind when we elected members of the National Council, but this debate was not the case, however, my colleague Peovic did not claim that the debate was not but simply asked, it seems to me, too, that is all, so much about it. [[- Intruder Radin, you don't understand.]] First of all, I'd like to say something about the work of the board of directors so far. First of all, we're really late for a new board of directors, we're three years late and about four months late. It's the fault of many, of course, this government, of course, and the previous one, but it's certainly not the management board of the foundation so far, so I think it's fair to say. As for the work of the foundation itself, we had a chance to discuss just over half a year ago the report on the work for 2019, although only on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, was personally the academic Wrettenar, head of the board of directors, and I must say that these discussions were very vividly remembered and we heard about it, in the debate we only heard commendation of the work of the foundation, no criticism. And in that sense, it seems to me that today's occasion is not really the right opportunity for us to criticize the work of the board of directors so far, regardless of what we think about this work. Until recently, until a month and a half ago, I was personally the leader of a four-year scientific project in Croatia. I know perfectly exactly from my experience, from the experience of my colleagues every detail of every step in the process, from the application process to the evaluation and then the follow-up, etc. So let me put it this way, it wasn't always great, it wasn't all absolutely in our taste, but again, it would be fair to say it, and I'm going to say it very clearly now, if all our institutions, especially in science and higher education, were to work as a foundation, if those in their activities had reached the standards that so far reached and set a foundation, would actually be in high education and science, so far much better. Yes, the foundation has made mistakes so far, these mistakes we are well aware of and now is an opportunity to improve the work of the foundation or there has been an opportunity to advance the work of the foundation by selecting the new board of directors that is continuing where this one has stopped, the note would be useful and better customs may have imposed that at least one member of the board of directors of the current management board of continuity is working, remains to work on the new board of directors, however, the government also did not want that, therefore, there were mistakes but also to say this. We have often criticised the work of the foundation, we who have led the projects but not nearly as close as they have criticised the work of the foundation of those who are not and it is fairly understood from which position these criticisms came, what they looked like and why. In any case, yes, one of the subpoints of this point is the resolution of the current board members, and that is why this is an opportunity for us to thank everyone at the head of the academic Vretenar, so here I am doing so from this pay phone, and as far as the election of new members of the trust board is concerned, I've already said everything and I'm thinking the same thing. They were chosen, at least some of them, not on the basis of their competences, but on the system of guessing and well-seated clientelistic connections, to honor this government and to inform... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49439	Thank you very much. ... Yes, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I've given up my question. I'll speak directly to the lady. Marijana Puljak later on, because you said one thing before and which I completely agree with and that the world of the economy should be present in the committees and in the foundations that concern science because this is how it works in today's world, and here... There's been criticism here, but we'll talk about it later on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. We won't ask the question because it would be, it would be unfair on my part. He'd use... - Mrs. Crescent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Marijana Puljak, Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, final. Of course, don't talk. Peović, not Puljak, before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49440	Here, I'll just use the final short for an apology, yeah, there was a debate on the Committee on Science, my colleague Bakic and I actually kept looking for here, I'm sorry, I really meant it, we kept looking for the criteria by which these people were chosen as a proposal for members of the Management Board. We didn't get an answer. The criteria were to be delivered by the Government, so it is their proposal. Yes, yes, their proposal is here and we should deliver the criteria by which these people are chosen for this function, as a proposal for this function. So, we got, first we got the résumés of only those chosen, after the question of one of the board members, we got then and the résumés of all the reported, such a bunch, but no table with any criteria, why this, and not the one by which the criterion of this, and not that, so we didn't get it and we were constantly being accused of whether, why we insist on these criteria, why this is important, the Foundation works well, should manage this, this, what, we all agree, but give us, here are the criteria by which these people are top scientists with world-rent scientific works and results, as well. Five laws, and he's asking for it. Here, just a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49441	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Bedekovic, HDZ Representatives' Club, final.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49442	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, representatives of the Ministry of Science and Education. First here, I will use the opportunity again at the end here, this debate on behalf of all parliamentary representatives and representatives of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ thanks to all the former members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation on their dedicated work in their ev., mandate. And certainly wish to succeed in the work of the new members of the Croatian Foundation for Science, which I hope the HS will confirm at its next vote and remind that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support both of these decisions. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to remind you that, indeed, as colleagues have previously confirmed, we have discussed on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, among other things, and on the report on the work of the Croatian Science Foundation in 2019, for 2020 we will hopefully get a report, where I have not noticed at any time any complaints or criticism at the expense of the work of the Croatian Foundation for Science, and we know that at the head of the Croatian Foundation for Science, therefore, the Management Board. How the Science Foundation will function and work in the next term headed by the Governing Board appointed by the Government, and the Parliament will confirm that we will see. And thirdly, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that here, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture are finally interrupting, at least after their discussions, a series of their earthquake testimonies about how the discussions on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on all topics can be held, not only this, in which way democratically approaches all the members and members of the Committee and how all the necessary material is provided so that the meetings can be held with all the relevant materials needed for discussion, so that, I am glad that here, in some way, here, I hope that a series of these earthquake testimonies on these wonders that take place on the Committee in terms of banning or disabling any debate, however, will cease to come to end, and until then, I do indeed use the opportunity to really recommend, indeed, to the distinguished fellow Members and to know that the way in which the Members are going to be appointed, the Members, the Members, the Members, the members, the members, the members of the members of the members of the members of the subject to be appointed, and the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members of the members, the members of the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the members, the If this were not about the procedure that went in such a way as to make any choice on the Committee, then the Committee's task was to confirm or not to confirm, to declare on the basis of a proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Management Board of the Croatian Science Foundation submitted to the Committee or to the HS by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, at any given moment, the possibility of a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49443	Thank you. Thank you very much. ... No, you're done. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. Yeah, okay. [[Agreement: Not yet, but here, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this proposal.]] No, I mean, you don't have a replica. Yes, Mr. Bakic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[All right, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured and that in their article. 238 because what I consider to be said, I am experiencing disdain by my colleague Bedeković because I would clearly say that I am not even involved, not involved in the current controversy which she has hidden, testified, even though I was not directly involved, exactly as it was, in support of my colleague Bedeković. Today and when we discussed the election of members of the National Council, I was telling the truth and only the truth. All members of the Committee and I don't think it's right to be like this. [[Thank you very much.]] My steps comment. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49445	Thank you very much, but I don't see any disrespect here. ... I don't see any disrespect, and this, of course, I have to give you a heads-up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As a replica, it would certainly be acceptable, but not as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately. So more like 238. - Mrs. Crescent. Vice-President Sabina Glasovac, Club of Representatives of the SDP final, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me just briefly at the end of today's debate say a few words on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. First, I would like to thank, too, the members and members of the Management Board of the Science Foundation, because this meeting has been exposed to a new moment, meaning that 2013, and then in 2014, a huge responsibility has been transferred to the Management Board itself and to the Foundation itself, by the fact that they have actually been given the power to establish a competition system, selecting applicants and financing research which was then managed independently by the scientific community. There have probably been some mistakes along the way, but the challenges have been great. What I want it to stop and that no longer happens is to break Croatian laws, no one has the right to do so, and it should be kept in mind by competent bodies that cannot be amnesty by law and law enforcement and by respecting the law that has been passed by HS. What is the fact that, in a few days we will vote on the new members and members of the Management Board of the Science Foundation. To this end, much of this debate today should not have occurred if we had adhered to Croatian laws, but also that we had adopted certain very clear criteria. The fact is that new members and members of the Management Board of the Science Foundation are chosen beyond any clearly set criteria, but what I expect from them, given that according to the ratios of forces in HS, they will get most of them to be guided by specific criteria in their work. The criteria to which the funds to be approved will indeed go into the right hands. Why am I saying that? So far, science has been crying out for funds. Now those funds will be. And through the EU funds that come through this classical seven-year EU perspective, but also through certain other mechanisms that we can get based on our Recovery and Resistance Plan and what is crucial is this strategic five-year document that will be brought by the Foundation because it is precisely this strategic document that needs to be identified and developed priority scientific areas, on the one hand, to strengthen this synergy, i.e. the integration of Croatia's scientific research space into international research space. But also the integration of this scientific, innovation and technological process and the process with the economy in the Republic of Croatia. No progress, no recovery, no resistance from the Croatian economy without education, technology and science, and the sooner it becomes clear to us, the easier it will be. It means that every euro that comes to Croatia through a system of innovation and science is used to create new jobs, to open up strengthening the economy and intellectual capacity of this country, and then also to open up a number of opportunities. This is a chance that is not available every day, there has been an earthquake, we have had Covid crisis, but all of these crises are actually space for, it is a certain opportunity, certain additional funds that are given to us as aids, and it is precisely up to us to recognize this crisis as our chance, and the keys to this are actually lying in people who will vote in HS, who will be key in the five-year period, to set very clear criteria and to reroute, i.e. to conduct transparent competitions, but also through this strategic plan define clear strategic objectives that must be in line with other development policies of the Republic and the key National Development Strategy 2030. So I hope that this bad chapter is playing law and non-transparentity and shooting funds maybe even where we won't have a return added value is behind us, regardless of what I think about some of these people, I wish them good luck and work smartly and work in the public interest, the interest of the Republic of Croatia because a lot of things depend on them and this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49447	Thank you. And now, finally, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary, Mr. Ivica Šushak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49448	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. First of all, thank you all for the contribution they have made in their presentations, but because of the fact of the principle, I have to mention a few remarks, it is about the presentation which stated that in the opening presentation I said that the Ministry of Science and Education is working on a new statute, I did not say that the Ministry of Science and Education is working on a new statute but rather on the harmonisation of the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, with the roof Act on Foundations. This High House has passed a new Law on Foundations and the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, it is necessary to comply with this roof legal regulation. The second thing I would like to mention is the full mention of the Statute of the Croatian Foundation for Science as potentially illegal, problematic, gave the possibility to extend the term of office to members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science, but for the sake of truth, I must say that the consent to this statute was obtained in 2013 and signed by the then Deputy Minister of Administration and Justice. Since then, the Statute of the Croatian Science Foundation has not been changed. This is very easy to see on the Croatian Science Foundation's website where all their documents are located. What is also interesting, I must remind myself once again of the procedural and content rules regarding the election or appointment of all members of the Croatian Foundation for Science. There is a Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science clear and unequivocal and it has laid down criteria for who can and how and in which procedure to be a member of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The law also limits the mandates to two consecutive mandates and since none of the previous members of the board of directors proposed or made a public call, there was no possibility other than the respected professor. Stipan Jonjic, who was already in two terms a member of the Croatian Science Foundation Management Board. The candidates, i.e. the appointed members, who came to you for confirmation in view of the criteria prescribed by the law and their compliance with those criteria, mentioned what I must mention here, if you only take Google Scholar or Scopus as a methodology or method, the database in which you can see how many pies someone in the world's magazines is quoted, then shows enough to say Prof. Dr. Drazen Vikić Topic has 1545 quotes in Scopus or 1623 in Google Scholar. The issue of calling and teaching some candidates is also visible in the register or register of scientists, the name of the extraordinary professor Dr. Anamarie Getoš Kalac, however, it is evident that he has the most scientific title in the science register, the issue of its international importance, or worldwide recognition, speaks of where the academic degree of the doctor of science and the projects she has conducted and the lectures she has conducted in view of the importance of higher schools at EU level. What is significant is that the Management Board will have great tasks in the next five-year period, ahead of us and the implementation of the NPOO proposal, which is projected through the next 4 years to invest 6 000 million kuna in strengthening the capacity of the foundation where applications projects, projects that will develop in the prime area and the question of developing young careers will be strengthened. All this together simply places a focus on the Croatian Foundation for Science which has one specific structure and needs to be harmonised, of course, what the amendment said, with the roof law on foundations, but also under constant supervision, monitoring the report of this High Representative and Legislative House. That would be the shortest and I thank you all for the exposure, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49449	Thank you, we have a few replicas. In turn, the first is Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49450	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State, these are the two things that are polemized. First, have the members who have been in the foundation so far, their mandate expired, and secondly, how are the members elected? Now you've explained it all here, and I think it would be good to repeat it once again that people know that if the government chooses candidates, that we can either raise our hand or not raise our hands and the résumés and all that they have, we can find, if we want to give it a try. So there was no debate here today on neither the programmes nor the results of the work. So there are no ideologies or programs here, but here it's about the choice, or the legitimacy of the members who have been so far and their mandate has expired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49451	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49452	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Namely, I will repeat that the way in which the members of the board of directors were appointed on the basis of a public call issued by the Ministry of Science and Education on 15 January of this year and that the authorised promoters on behalf of the representatives of the academic and scientific community were Senates of the University, Rector of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, public scientific institutes themselves, scientists and members of the academic community themselves, the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development. 40 candidates have been submitted for a public call. In the analysis of accessible, registered applications, 6 candidates did not meet the criteria prescribed by the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. Unfortunately, this key to regional representation was not fully respected from the region since the proposed candidates from the Slavonia area were at high-school positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49453	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49454	First of all, I'd just like to comment on this replica, I think everything can be found on the Internet, but if I don't think there's some commission assignments in the assembly to get all the information when making decisions on these important things. But I would ask you directly if you think it's something and legal whether it's legitimate for the director of the institute that this institute proposes to be the same person. It means that a person who is, which an independent institution should propose, is okay, but an independent institution is himself in some way. So we have a director who proposes himself. That's the president of the board of directors. That's what I mean by itself. It might be legal, but is it legitimate? Shouldn't we have rules like that that don't come up with such short circuits?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49455	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49456	Thank you very much. In the process of proposing in front of public scientific institutes, the administrative board is a governing body but a public scientific institute through the Scientific Council and the decisions of that highest expert body of the Institute proposes candidates for members of strategic bodies in the system of science and higher education. So the question of legitimacy is simply out of the question here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49457	Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49458	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State I am pleased that again in your final presentation you have explained the procedure of selecting the members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science and that you have pointed out yourself that the procedure is such that the resolution ministry calls for a public call, the government chooses and proposes a parliament, so I will ask you to re-explain this procedure for the sake of the Croatian public. Why? Because I can't, and I'll never agree with the insistence that when someone or something or a body chooses a position or selects a HDZ, then it's politicizing and putting science in the service of politics or something else, and when it's up to the opposition and selecting the opposition, then it's above all respect for the profession. and do not put politics in any other context. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49459	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49460	Thank you, well-respected MPs, so a public invitation to propose candidates for members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science is announced by the Ministry of Science and Education. The candidates for members of the Foundation Management Board shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of proposals submitted by public scientific institutes, the Rectoral Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the University Senates, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Employers, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and scientists and members of the academic community on the basis of a publicly published call. In this case, the ministry received a total of 40 proposals, I repeat, of which 34 received proposals met the conditions of a public call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49461	Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49462	Thank you. So, here's the respected I call you here on this road to transparency just so that what my colleague Bedekovic said we say that when selecting HDZ, then it's against the profession or the law, and when it chooses the opposition that it's all in accordance with the law, so here's a transparent explanation of the criteria by which these people were chosen between 34 who met the public, the conditions of the public call. So, can we from now on, so in the future of each of these choices we have a clear criterion so that there are no oppositions, the position chooses like this, but to show us the table on which criteria between 34 are selected these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49463	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49464	Thank you, Your Honor. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, which is that members of the Management Board of Foundation are appointed from the ranks of top scientists, especially those who worldwide recognise scientific papers and results, taking care of the representation of all scientific areas. And then I've already mentioned my authorised proposings, so there's no point in mentioning it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49465	And in the end, Mr. Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, but really, but really the replica material means that we're not repeating everything that's been said many times today I just want to reach two things by referring to this final presentation of yours. So, if this choice here is this possible choice of fellow fellow Stipan Jonjic would be the second choice to join the board of directors that is a question that is subject to interpretation, you know it much better than I do, but it is not apriori clear. This is the first thing I wanted to say, and the second is quite certain among the reported was a colleague of Dean Idukovic whose choice this would not be the second choice, so you missed it. Because of the public, I would like to make it clear and loud that there was also a fellow member of the board of directors of the foundation on the list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49467	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49468	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I cited it as an example of Honorable Professor Stipan Jonjic, who spent two consecutive mandates. I did not state why it was not from the previous period, why the not-respected emeritus professor Dean Aydukovic was obviously assessed as being of greater importance in terms of international importance and citation and results in international research.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-26-0.u49469	Thank you very much, no more replicas, I'll conclude, thank you, I'll conclude the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
