ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27238	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am taking this opportunity to repeat once again the disgraceful Puljasic-Pilon case that recently marked the political life of the community. I come from Požega, and I can say that in the past few days, even years, it is not easy to say that you are Požezanka or Požezanin, and that there are no links to violent and corrupt politicians on our beloved city. Požega has been a city of political disasters for many years, failed and stolen futures. Although some will feel that discussions about these and earlier cases are unnecessary, even on the contrary this cannot go into oblivion because the resistance the Požezans will provide will determine whether Požega is ready for change or not. But let's get this straight, it all started 8 years ago. When they came to power, Neferovic, Puljasic, Pilon, as their first development, made a decision on the purchase of the land of Pilon's cousin for the construction of kindergarten. It was clear which way those young men would lead Požega. 2015 make a decision to raise a 35 million kuna loan for the construction of a new kindergarten, refurbishing of the market and city swimming pools. Important decisions for the city's appearance are made without consulting citizens, without consulting the local committee or, for example, through referenda. Let's just imagine how much 20% of that amount that potentially ended up somewhere else we could hear from Puljasic when he described Neferovic's actions. It's important here to say that it's been 3 years. 100 children are left without a place in kindergarten because kindergarten is not enough for all registered children, and Puljašić 3.g. He's asking his parents to be patient. It's the 3rd year of non-resolvement of this problem. is the reason for the resignation, let alone the criminal acts. The leaders don't waste time, they build luxury houses, and the lack of pay and property nobody deals with, so I call on this institution to do their job. One of the more embarrassing acts of this three is to press charges against the city of Požega for the eviction of the Centre for Social Care Požega, Branch office Family Centre 2015. when I was then the principal with the allegations that they needed that space. The initiator of the lawsuit was then Mayor Neferovic, who was convicted of physical violence against the journalist by a first-degree verdict, and the outcome of the second-degree verdict is expected. The space used for the needs of children's workshops with difficulties and a decorated room for breastfeeding has become a weighty three whose personality permeated increasing haughtiness and insolence. Puljasic, with the support of City Council President Zeljko Glavić, does not answer a single question on the current clock to city council members, but sends the answers in writing. Not respecting the fact that every opposition representative stands equally worthy of citizens, regardless of not being members of the HDZ. As the SDP's county organisation, we also asked for an impeachment, the launch of Mayor Alojz Tomasevic's recall after a first-degree and second-degree ruling on domestic violence. President Zeljko Glavic said he would continue to support Alojz Tomasevic's work in the county assembly due to development projects. In January of last year, an indictment was filed against Puljasic for subsidising fraud and forging business documentation for the construction of the OS "Dobrisa Cesaric". Meanwhile, footage takes place in which Puljasic is urging communal director Josip Knightz to accommodate certain companies at the energy renovation of the building. The director refuses and conducts a tender in which he saves citizens half a million kunas. Despite knowledge of criminal actions, Zeljko Glavic proposes it on the parliament list, and ultimately the initiative is also proposed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. So Puljasic knowingly and responsibly sought a deal to harm citizens directly from their monthly home budgets. Due to this video, Puljasic is no longer a parliamentary representative, the town organisation of HDZ has been disbanded, but he and Pilon are still at the helm of the town of Požega. A man of the importance of falsifying a business file with a confirmed charge of subsidisation these days performs the duties of the mayor, signes acts as in a peaceful age. The state's attorney's office is taking out the paperwork, and no one's asking what else this team can do for the rest of the term. At the protest held in Požega, 25 people were physically present for epidemiological reasons, but online support was provided by 35,000 people. This is the way we're looking The resignation of Puljasic and Pilon because it is the will of citizens because they no longer want to live with the weight of shame. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27313	The next statement is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and, on their behalf, the distinguished representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27314	After this, all I can say is that it's a shame that Tušek ended up infamously how well he did. Dear colleagues, I'm going to talk today about the abolized Chetniks, I'm going to repeat, the abolized Chetniks. So that's one word, or two words, one expression, that can't be spoken in public space. So, a few days ago, the first one was NN, so he was Milorad A., and later we found out that Milorad Arsenic dropped the bomb and badly wounded several HEP workers. The man is an abolized Chetnik, so in '91. By '95, he fought in Chetnik troops that had destroyed, burned, grilled, slaughtered in Croatia, and then our President Tudjman abolized all the Chetniks and so did this Chetnik. Imagine by any chance that a Croatian defender did the same thing, you know what the headlines in Croatian media would be, the developed drunk family bully dropped a bomb and wounded 3 HEP workers. Unfortunately, all the mainstream media, unfortunately Andrej Plenkovic, unfortunately Milorad Pupovac, made it an abolized brush and then it can't be presented in such a way, but the key question is how many of these abolised Chetniks have hidden weapons in their homes? This gentleman has a surface search even though his son was there, and here's the mention of the man Predrag I think, Predrag Arsenic, may have put the weapon away, perhaps it isn't, it's a question now, they found another bomb M-75, a hunting rifle and a few dozen, 56 pieces of ammunition for which of course he doesn't have a license. Minister Bozinovic, do you intend to search the houses of the abolised Chetniks who apparently hide a lot of weapons. I heard from a few sources and looked on social networks that when they were resuscitated those houses in Banovina in that first resuscitation that our people volunteers in the ruins found what, a Chetnik weapon and nothing at all. Em's had them up, they're throwing bombs at the HEP workers, and they can't stop in headlines to talk about the abolized Chetniks. And you know what's funniest? Which they don't hide that they are. They're not ashamed of that brushing, burning and burning, they're proud of it. So when they have their celebrations and their celebrations they get together and dance and sing again these same Chetnic songs, but one toleranceal Croatia, one toleranceal government of Andrej Plenkovic and Milorad Pupovac, of course Boris Milosevic, if they don't dare call it their own name, so all the media has been instructed not to accidentally write somewhere in the title that the abolized Chet might have killed one of the HEP workers or several of them, one of my people on the respirator, is fighting for life. And whether or not the Serbian National Council, Pupovac, Milosevic will call a press conference as they have done many times before and ask for a search of all of their fellow countrymen's houses who served that Chetnik or even the Yugoslav army, burned and burned down Croatia and were later abolized, so instead of the Chetniks they became an abolised Chetnik or not, and I'm afraid they won't. We are a really poor state, a poor state and just what I think a little bit I don't know, here I see that some of our colleagues here from HDZ are looking at me like that, and I think they agree with me for what I'm saying and we didn't even deserve the state, we didn't even deserve this treatment of the abolised Chetniks in Croatia, and on the other hand, I'll repeat, if this was made by a Croatian defender, don't be afraid of screaming headlines, in the diaries would be the best time, we'd be talking about how another family abuser drunk, developed Croatian defender is a real mess. We're pathetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27373	The following statement of view on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27374	Thank you, Vice President. Just over a month ago, the County Court in Zagreb rightly ruled that the Union of Science and Higher Education must pay 24.5 thousand kuna to the University of Zagreb for damages due to statements on the strike at the Croatian Studies in April 2017. Epilogue is the story of the transformation of Croatian studies, a story that began exactly 4 years ago. 17th January 2017 when the Senate of the University of Zagreb decided to change the status of Croatian studies from the university center to the university... The decision to complete the trolley was broadly illegal, so clearly against the law that neither the master nor the master of the Covic operation was denied. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was personally able to warn in the Senate at that time, and it all says in today’s available record that it explicitly violates the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Today is the 4th year. Later, the epilogue is Kafkian, all justified, all resolved and institutional violence against one university component and the devastation of one section and the violation of the law and the abuse of people and the establishment of a puppet union and an absurd judicial ban on strike with even more absurd reasoning and instrumentisation of senates and students' choir, everything is beautifully put into court drawers, everything is neatly settled. And even now that the union pays its debt for the pain it inflicted on the rector and the proctor, all accounts will be settled. This verdict sends an incomprehensible message about what can happen even in the academic community to someone who dares strike in defense of the powerful and protect their rights. This verdict is incomprehensible in the domain of legal documents, but it is crystal clear by its message of intimidation and violation of labour rights. This verdict is another in a series of evidence of the unsecured staff of the University of Zagreb administration and influential judicial circles. Once again with their double... We have also witnessed here recently in the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, again discussing the Croatian qualification framework. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who is more strange then that Judge Ivan Turudic, until the other day the president of the same county court from the beginning of the story, the same judge Turudic who rejected only 6 months ago as an unfounded request for the exemption of Judge Miladin in the case of the University of Zagreb against the Faculty of Philosophy and Dean Vlahović Štić, although Judge Miladin was in quite an obvious way connected with the Rector Čovic? Who is more strange then that Judge Turudić will defend his doctorate from history for the day after, you guess, Croatian studies, whose doctorate has been since 2018? In December in the assembly we launched and the entire opposition supported our request to form an investigative committee that would be involved in obstructing independent investigations and processing corruption cases. The parliamentary majority rejected it, but we won't give up on this fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27419	Thank you. Now we're gonna stop this debate because it's 13 o'clock, we're gonna go to a free speech. The first to present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement was presented by the distinguished representative Stipo Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. As is known, the Republic of Croatia has the Law on the Homeland Security System of 2017. Each such law is tested in peacetime, but at the time of special threats, it then passes a test that passes or falls. Unfortunately, the Homeland Security Act proved to have failed the exam, in the event of an earthquake in Zagreb, especially in the case of an earthquake in Banovina. It has proved to be completely ineffective, unspeakable and not at all synchronised with the rest of the already existing legislation, and especially with the needs that have been demonstrated on the ground. According to its definition, the service of citizens and its basic task is to help its citizens on a daily basis, especially in incident situations. There are many examples that show that fans groups, associations, political parties were much better organised in a crisis situation, up to individuals than state institutions, even though they have a task and significant budget resources to do so. I think we can all agree that these services really do not need to save money because their willingness is vital and if God should pray that we never need them. If needed, then these services must be highly trained, technically equipped and synchronised. The government claims everything was well organized, and the state has not failed. Then why did Mr. Trutt disappear from the public? Does his disappearance from the public that coincides with the establishment of a headquarters led by Vice President Bear mean that the government is unhappy with the effect of civil protection led by Mr. Trutt? If civil protection has worked well and effectively, why establish a new superintendent, and if not, why hasn't Trut been removed? The home movement does not give these examples so that we can rejuvenate or enjoy, but rather, we feel that we need to learn something together from this disaster and not allow ourselves to be more prepared and organized in a possible new threat. The Home Movement considers it a good time to put the debate on the National Security System Act on the agenda, and to make the same additions, changes and in general repairs to the welfare of all of us after the debate. We believe that this present structure is not effective, and as it turns out to be a confusion on the ground, they were seven days late with the declaration of disaster, and 12 days with the establishment of a soup kitchen. We, as the Homeland Movement, sent 100 volunteers to the field the next day after the earthquake who were told not to know what to do with them. We suggest that, according to the example of the American National Guard and many other experiences based on Croatian tradition, the system of the National Guard Assembly, which would be the roof institution of gathering and organising services in crisis situations, be revived. ZNG was accepted by the Croatian people from its draft and made a significant contribution to the defence of the homeland and the development of modern HV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27491	The following statement of view on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club is a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27492	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So when it comes to certain decisions, when it comes to certain attitudes I always try to be reasonable, I try to analyze it, I try to see this kind of touch point as I know how to say some denominator. But indeed, what turns out to be right is all those who claim to live in the land of absurdity. I guess it's already clear to everyone not only that the reconstruction of Zagreb and the two neighbouring counties that were supposed to be behind the devastating earthquake has not yet begun, but also the question of when. In the past more than 10 months as it has passed, no single brick has been moved in terms of reconstruction, not even hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros paid by the EU did not move a thing by a millimeter. But now we come to the ultimate absurd, instead of hiding in the mouse hole and gathering everything that is gathered knows that at least something moves from a dead end which makes the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic or better to say what makes HDZ? The man in charge of the reconstruction, which is already a clean fiasco reportedly proposes as a non-party candidate for the mayor of Zagreb. But that's not the point of madness. The pinnacle of madness that Mr. Vangelic is now on TV shows to others suggests they're just criticising, and they didn't suggest anything. I just expect him to go and tell the citizens that they're stupid, so they can't meet their demands. But it's already a common method. When you don't do something, when you don't know how to do it, but you want to be in power, you want to pretend you don't take responsibility, but you attack others that they didn't suggest anything. If you want others to do their job, it's very simple, so stay away and keep your mouth shut. But while others complain that they didn't propose anything to work with V.D. The fund manager hasn't even started yet. There are still more than 4,000 households in Zagreb that have no gas, so neither hot water nor heating for 10 months after the earthquake. No single competition or public procurement is scheduled and is not known when it will be. In the good old style of Andrej Plenkovic and his halls we always listen now, he will, now, irritate what we ask them at all when something will finally start. The fund hasn't been put on its feet yet, I don't see that it's been teamed up or that the work has been done. What's done is that it's constantly delaying the start of any renewal. All this must be systematic and complete as they constantly warn us and so systematically and completely say, in the summer they will start in the fall, in the autumn they will start in the winter, in the winter they will start in the spring, and in the spring I will bet, they will start talking only because they are not here now in the summer. The prime minister was very angry when I asked him how many years people would live in the containers of Banja/Banovini. My colleagues and colleagues in Zagreb have been living in containers for almost a year now, so for a full 10 months, they live in containers and no one asks for them anymore. According to the fund manager who has successfully done his work so far, here is a candidate for the mayor of Zagreb reportedly, that if the reconstruction doesn't start in three months he has nothing to do there anymore. I guess he thinks that just when he doesn't do anything he'll jump into the mayor's chair, he'll do nothing there, considering HDZ has no intention of changing anything compared to his faithful partner Milan Bandic's rule. And as for the opposition's proposal that gentlemen should be doing, here's a very simple and enforceable proposal, my people try something that you haven't tried before, start doing anything at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27566	The next is the presentation of the position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club and the distinguished representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27567	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I have an obligation to go out for this pay phone and say a few words as a representative of the neighborhood that is often marginalized and put aside. A place that is not small Switzerland, is not part of Slovenia or Austria, it is north of Croatia, it is Međimurje and Međimurje County. We're taught to put your head down and work, shut up, but if we get something good, if not good again. We have our palms and everything we're going to do, we're going to do for ourselves, but it's worth a few facts. In life in the North of Croatia, about life in Međimurje County for the past few years, a life that certainly would not have been such if it had not been for this government and its investments in the past few years. For my City of Prelog, many say that the place where all the answers can be obtained is to make Croatia better. We shut up and work and sometimes it looks like we're coming to another universe when we hear stories from other parts of Croatia. Of course, we are not enough and could not do anything without support in every project in every challenge by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Governments that, like... so far in Međimurje County have invested millions of kunas in unclassified roads, social homes, schools, halls, economic zones and many other projects. We have our problems and we don't run away from them, others use them well for their popularity, put smiles and inscriptions, their picture, and there's your election campaign. There's going to be a lot in the coming months because local elections are close. The government of the Republic of Croatia has realised many projects in Međimurje County, including only the most valuable for the metal core Educational Centre, the metal industry has reached more than 30 million kuna, for the Technology-Innovation Centre of Međimurje over 11 million, over 12 million kuna for the Business Park of Međimurje, over 40 million for the reconstruction of the Old Town of Čakovec, 70 million kuna for the reconstruction of the hospital and improvement of health care, for the Centre for Sustainable Development of the Međimurje Velevci Institute in Čakovec has arrived 12 million kuna with an additional 9 million to build a student home with a restaurant. There are also 10 million for the energy reconstruction of the House for the Elderly and Powerless in Čakovec and 11 million for the famous overpass in Čakovec. The northern border of Čakovec was also built with money from the government of the Republic of Croatia, and nearly 40 million were invested in it. The Croatian roads also plan the project route of Varazdin-Cakovce, the bypass of Nedelić and Pusćin as well as the construction of the towns of Prelog and Mursko Središće, while the government also supports the project of building a new building of the Centre for Education and Education Čakovec for the purpose of ensuring one approach to education of students with difficulties. In my Prelog in the last four years, numerous projects have been implemented, "Happy Bike" over 7 million, "DESCO" 2 million, a business centre that is immediately and filled with one more than 16 million kuna, was reconstructed "Fiolicar2 for which we received 9 million kuna, for development and construction of the economic zone of the North in the last 4 years over 20 million arrived. There are other projects "Helps, Employment, Happiness" that are worth over 3 million, "Golden Years" project for the family worth nearly 12 million kuna. Investment in Prelogsko marina through Interreg Hrvatska and Hungary another 5 million kuna, I would not want to forget the City-Communal company PRE-COM that is expanding and equipment is also money from numerous projects. I wanted us to go together in these few minutes to a different Croatia, which is a little bit talked about, which will rarely end up in the media. What I want to point out in the end is that the figures say everything. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for its assistance in the County of Međimurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27756	The following is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u27757	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the legislation of this beautiful state, the following terms are known, and I think everyone's a clear, life-long pension, life-long rent, life-long severance, life-long restraint. The word life means that the right or obligation lasts while a man is alive and that after that, the right and obligation ceases and accounts and additional rights are possible. That's true, and I guess it's clear to everyone, and I have to tell you, it's not known that I'm not familiar with the term life rent, for example, but a lifetime rent. However, in Leko our legal practice, it legally insists on a life support contract, the same importance almost and purpose as a life support contract. But watch out, watch out, this one is dangerous, the life support contract was designed by social predators, designed by property predators. It is made up of people who are in contact with a seriously ill, abandoned elderly person in really difficult emotional conditions before the end of their lives. Often, on the other hand, the contract is socially respected, influential people, guardians, or family members. The contract allows predators who may be, and are mostly in conflict of interest, to enter into property on the date of signature of the contract, rather than on the day of the occurrence of the circumstances of death, which gives priority over any heirs and advantage in all legal actions. There is a cure for such fraud in Croatian legal practice and in art. 242. A penal law that defines a loan agreement, which makes use of necessity, inexperience, laziness, reduced judgment ability or a significant weakness of the will of another person, receives from it or with it contracts for himself or another property benefit which is in obvious disproportionate to those he has given, did or committed himself or will be punished by a prison of up to three years. We don't have a lot of data on criminal charges, we have two crimes reported for 2018, but that might mean we don't call things a real name. I haven't heard a lot of these cases of criminal charges until I see every little article on a life support contract in the Black Chronicle. Where else to go, of course in the Black Chronicle. And just as a basis for proposing the suspension, I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice how much of our contracts have been evaluated in the interest rate? In the end, I would like to say, in the end, that young people would never sign life insurance with the possibility of making a lifetime rent, illogically, it doesn't go at all expensive. Sign something that says life is only for people who are old and powerless and who feel that the end is near. It is our task, our esteemed parliamentary representatives, to protect you and me, to all citizens who feel that their end is near, which is a very strong emotion, to protect them from fraud and to provide them with an end worthy of man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28877	Thank you, then we resolved quite quickly, and now we are going to make a statement on the amendments to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 102. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, the Legislator's Committee, Siniša Hajdas Dončić, the National Movement Representatives' Club, a representative named Brumnić, a HNS Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives' Club, the MOST Representatives' Club, Nikola Grmoj's representative, the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the HDZ Club and representatives of Katarina Peović. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, the Honored Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property Darko Horvat, first of all Amendment No. 1. The Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28878	Thank you, Vice President. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of MOST to Art. 1. we do not accept because the provisions of this law apply in detail to the territory of the City of Zagreb, the Krapina-Zagorje County and Sisak-Moslavina County, Zagreb County, and the Karlova County, as well as to art. 3. Prescribes the application of the rules and measures laid down in this law in the future of earthquakes in an appropriate manner, but not as detailed as those Countys.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28879	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, do you want something on behalf of the Representatives' Club? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28880	Thank you very much. When this law was passed, when the law took place in Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, we then warned that this could happen in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the tribunal changes the name of the law, that these rules and this law apply in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia. Just like this by adding always, God forbid there's a threat, but they threaten to happen when it happens in the second part of the Republic of Croatia what do we do then? We'll be passing this same law again. This means that this government does not meet, first of all, the criteria of mountainous mountainous and undeveloped areas by the indexations and criteria they have made, that they are so illogical that they simply, they have seen that there is, that Stubica will not be restored, and in other cities it will be renewed, and they fall under the same category of development. Therefore, when such a law is passed from earthquakes and any other situation, then the law should be passed, meaning the name of the law. You here when there was an earthquake in Zagreb that was catastrophic, you thought it was only Zagreb Croatia. It's not. Although empty, respected ministers with their policies 2/3 of Croatia, but also 2/3 of Croatia are Croatia. Now Banovina has exposed you. It's an empty area. When I said it was an empty area, that the tribune invested, you laughed here, whatever empty area it was. Change the name of the law entirely to be in the area of the Republic of Croatia, not how the threat occurs in which part of the county, the city, don't let God ever happen again, but it's ahead of us. Who hoped that Banovina would happen after Zagreb, the same thing is waiting for us, and what will we do when it happens in the second part? So I invite you, colleagues and colleagues, to support this proposal, to be for the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you, are you looking for a vote?]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28881	Amendment No. 2 MPs, Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28882	Thank you, Vice President. Amendment of MPs Katarina Peović to Art. 1 we do not accept because the provisions of this law apply in detail to the territory of the City of Zagreb, the Krapina-Zagorje County, Sisak-Moslavina County, Zagreb County and the Karlova County, while the article is held. 3. Prescribes the application of the rules and measures laid down in this law in the future of earthquakes in an appropriate manner, but not as detailed as those Countys.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28883	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28884	So here, I'm going to quote an explanation from your bill where it stands, allowing the application of the rules of this law in the event of future catastrophic earthquakes so that, as soon as possible after such events, it can begin with the process of recovery. So the proposed law follows that not only these areas but all other potential disasters, earthquakes, means we apply to all places in Croatia. I don't see any real reason, since we already had this example that nature has provided us with that earthquake can happen in all areas in Croatia, I don't really see why we shouldn't make this law public, instead of counting all the counties and counting cities. So that's completely illogical, especially because the intensity of this law is to extend the rules to other ends. I will insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28885	Thank you. Amendment No. 3 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28886	Thank you, Vice President. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Art. Amendment 2 under the ordinary No. Three, we'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28887	Amendment No. 4 Clubs of Green-Left Block Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28888	Amendment No. 4 Amendments of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club to Art. 4. we do not accept because the financing of renovations of buildings intended for agricultural, livestock and economic activities is contained and arranged in the amendment to Article 4. 5 The law that the government has proposed in amended form by accepting parts of the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28889	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28890	Thank you very much. So just a brief explanation. In the area of Sisak-Moslavina County in the area of an earthquake, an extremely large number of our citizens live in rural economies whose functioning is vitally important economic agricultural facilities. We believe that it is important to reflect what objects they are, it is important, we believe that it is unusually important to include these objects in the Rehabilitation Act. This amendment to the article we have proposed defines these agricultural economic facilities in order to be explicitly mentioned later in the renewal, so we remain with it and we ask that it be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28891	Amendment No. 5 HDZ Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28892	Thank you, Vice President. 5. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club is accepted in a modified form, and this modified form is read in Art. 5th century 2 also changes, the means for the construction of family houses, business, residential and multi-state buildings and the construction of replacement family houses that are unusable or temporaryly unusable, including the costs of temporary storage of things, insurance for the territory of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Sisak-Moslavina County, Zagreb County and Karlova County, the Republic of Croatia in the state budget of 60%, the City of Zagreb, Krapinsko-Zagorska County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and the Karlova County, in its budgets, for real estate in its areas, and property owners and co-owners of 20%. In accordance with Article 2(2), a new paragraph 3 is added, which reads, exceptionally, that the Republic of Croatia provides funds in the state budget of 100 % for the construction of family houses, business, residential and multi-supervised buildings and for the construction of replacement family houses which are unusable or temporarily unusable, including the cost of temporary storage of things, in the areas of the regional (regional) self-government units referred to in Article 2 of this Article. for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia declares a disaster within the meaning of the law governing the system of civil protection. Previously on "St. 3." In the present section 4, which becomes the 5th century, the word “protected tenants” is added to the words “those on owners who acquired real estate after 22 March 2020 from relatives without compensation, inheritance, donation or other acquisition without compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28893	Thank you very much. It is, isn't it? And you didn't, so go ahead, read it all the way. [[Intruder: I'm not finished.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28894	Previously on "St. 5"... In the former 6th century, which becomes the 7th century behind the word “earth book”, the words “the foundation of the decision on restoration” are added, and the words “80% of the amount” are replaced by the words “total amount”. Articles 7 and 8 so far become paragraphs 8 and 9, paragraphs 9, 10, 11 and 12 are deleted. In the current paragraph 13, which becomes paragraph 10 behind the word “renovation fund”, the word “Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care” is added. The following paragraph 13 which became paragraph 10 is added: ‘for areas where disaster has been declared after the completion of the census and the assessment of damages to the government will, in particular, establish additional criteria for the financing of reconstruction of buildings intended for agricultural, livestock and economic activity’.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28895	Thank you. In the name of the club, a respected representative of the Celjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28896	Dear Vice President HS, Your Honor. The HDZ club is in agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28897	Amendment 6 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28898	Amendment under regular No. Six. We accept the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28899	7th Amendment of the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28900	Amendment under regular No. Seven. We do not accept the club of representatives of the HNS because the financing of the renovation is prescribed in an appropriate manner by accepting the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives to this article in a slightly modified form.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28901	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28902	Thank you very much. This is a very serious and important amendment, so I'm going to read it in a hurry to stop in two minutes. "After every natural disaster, citizens expect help from their country. I can't deal with the big amount of trouble that's happening to them at the same time. In such situations, the state has an obligation to help and prove its social sensitivity, efficiency and justice. It is precisely on this trail that the amendment to the Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings is proposed in a way that all citizens are equal to the basic residential property and that the Republic of Croatia finance a construction reconstruction of 100%. In doing so, it should not be forgotten that there is still a large cost for citizens in multi-state buildings to arrange their apartments, staircases, corridors, and which does not enter the construction rehabilitation. On the other hand, 20% of the owner's participation would remain a huge administrative burden for officials who would handle thousands of renewal requests and those officers in the grantovnica who would receive and enroll thousands of mortgages for apartments and houses in the City of Zagreb. It will, of course, stop the reconstruction process. And third, what is the goal of this 20% renewal for Zagreb and Zagreb alone? What is the goal or purpose of that 20%? Citizens generally don't have that money, so the Republic of Croatia will write mortgages, and all that paperwork business, checking out, registering mortgages on thousands of cases. What's this about? Does the Republic of Croatia and this government force one day to charge that 20%? I don't think so. If the goal is to move the citizens of Zagreb out of their apartments and force their property to be charged in public auctions, then it is a defeat for our country. And if that government won't do it Then why force a 20% bill?" [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28903	Thank you. I don't understand, are you asking for a vote or are you accepting a change like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28904	Requesting vote
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28905	You're looking for a vote. Eight, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28906	Mr. Vice President, we have a technical request, I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28907	I'm listening... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28908	So, the minister read quite long as he accepts the amendment in changed form, can we get it in writing that we know in the vote that we're not looking now because the transcripts will... If you had the authority to deliver the paper to us, we'd be pleased. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Of course, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28909	Of course, the minister will deliver you absolutely that paper, no worries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28910	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28911	And now we're going to move to the 8th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28912	And you can repeat it again if it's not a problem because it's really a shade, and I'm not sure if I caught right, we're all going to further explain these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28913	I'm sorry, I didn't realize what to...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28914	I just asked if it was possible, since the HDZ amendment was not accepted, but the modified form, and if it were nuances and we were all still refering to that same amendment, I would ask the Minister if he could repeat this key part that relates only to funding, not this change point, what exactly is accepted by the amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28915	So, like this, you're going to get, you're going to get everybody in writing, it's much better to get in writing, you can read it in peace then than to have the minister read it again and again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28916	Well, that's two sentences to say this part that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28917	Ah, look, there are serious things and they're sensitive, so you better get in writing. Well, here's what we're going to do to get it in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28918	Vice President, I apologize. So, I guess a colleague thinks, I apologize for what you think, and that's what we think regardless of whether she thinks this is if a fundamental amendment is accepted which integrates the following amendments that we are, for example. and we suggested, we would be thinking eventually of withdrawing our amendment, so it's important that we know what's been accepted so we can continue the debate, so in that sense... you cannot add to the Rules of Procedure. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28919	That, that doesn't exactly lead... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28920	Al, that's why it's not, technically it's a question, but it's a nuance that might matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28921	Excuse me, but these are really two sentences just to make it clear what the state finances 100%, which areas, just two sentences, affected by disaster or assisted or something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28922	Here it is, here it is, look, look at the debate over it. So everyone should have listened to what was said. However, since I am aware that these are sensitive things you will get, here it is now written, in writing, so that everyone can read it, so as to make their assessment of whether they accept further amendments or not accept further amendments. I think it's much better than having the minister read something he's already read and what you should have listened to. The intruder can't be heard. Here it is, you'll get it within a few minutes, literally. Here's how long it takes to copy. ... Let's go, let's go, let's go to this, uh, 8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28923	Amendment under regular No. 8. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Art. 5 We do not accept it because the financing of the renovation is prescribed in an appropriate way through the adoption of the amended amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28924	Representative Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28925	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Now, look, as we have pointed out several times in debates on behalf of the club and in individual debates, we generally think the law is bad. Why do we say he's bad? Because it does not foresee a certain superstandard, so it does not foresee certain things that may have become normal in some similar European countries today. So by that law itself, and by itself, to say the way we rebuild it, we think that certain things are definitely not going to change, we look at it wider, we look at it and we develop it, we look at it economically, we look at it and we look at it demographically. And we're glad that you've accepted the SDP amendment, which you later, as a colleague of the Bauk would say, into the HDZ amendment and that you've also heard our mayor of the city of Sisak, and we can say that this is actually a common amendment and that we have come together to some common conclusion. So I'm going to commend you on that now and thank you, and probably when we get the cleanup we're going to withdraw that amendment. Otherwise, the SDP's club will probably vote in favour of the law, but the MPs' club will probably vote in favour of the law. [[I'm sorry I have to.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28926	The Honorable representative Dretar has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28927	I apologize, I have raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not because the esteemed representative Hajdash Doncic is not telling the truth, but is telling a crumb of incomplete truth because we still have in Terme Jezeljica people who have been there since March of the month... who, in May of the month, will have to move out, I am ready for a reminder, the Honorable Chairman, I just wanted to complete Mr. Hajdas Doncic's sentence. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28928	She's the one you're going to get, and otherwise you've been messing around because it's the 9th Amendment, what you're saying, this one now. ... Well, you got it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now, let's wait, I suggest we take a five-minute break, uh, one two to three hours, we won't do it anyway, but we'll take a short break so that you all get the written form of this one, the amendment so that you can then assess whether you vote for it or against it. There he is. Well don't accept it now, the vote will be tomorrow. ... No, I as a doctor can't let you do that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 8:00.23. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.26 HOURS]] The 9th Amendment of the Honorable Representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[No, no, I'll listen to 9.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28930	Thank you, Vice President. Amendment under regular No. 9 Representatives of Sinisha Hejdaš Doncic in the article. 5. We do not accept it because the financing of the renovation is prescribed in an appropriate way through the adoption of the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives' amendment to this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28931	Honorable representative Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28932	Thank you for your answer, thank you and this interpause for your additional explanation. I am pleased that the Krapina-Zagorje County will, in your own words and in coordination with the Mayor of Krapina-Zagorje when they declare a certain, so to speak, level of the elemental disaster, that the inhabitants of the Krapina-Zagorje County will also be entitled to 100%, so to speak, construction reconstruction. If that's how it is, here, I commend the ministers even though we come from the same constituency, I commend your understanding, the effort for all residents because this is just more than just a daily policy and the SDP's Club of Representatives and I as an amendment no. 9 so we're pulling both 8 and 9 Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: I 8 and 9. Okay.]] And I also welcome you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28933	Thank you very much. 8 and 9 so they're withdrawn. Now it's a club, now it's an amendment no. Ten Clubs of Representatives of the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28934	Thank you, Vice President. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge to Art. We don't accept 5. The explanation is completely identical because the amendment is similar. Funding of renovations prescribed in an appropriate manner through the adoption of the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28935	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honored Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28936	Dear Ministers, I will start with an assumption without any criticism or cynicism that the legislator's intention was positive and well-intentioned. That you wanted to help 100%, although only by designing the assisted areas that were badly injured in this earthquake. However, when you started writing this law, you remembered that there were also assisted areas that had been affected in the previous earthquake, and you did not allow them 100% renewal, so you added in the fences an additional criterion of disaster announcement to ensure that you would finance 100% of these areas alone. But there was a circus. Pressed by an election campaign ahead of the local elections, you decided that you must urgently integrate Sisak and all of this, and we also see that according to the proposed amendments, it was not a struggle for the right ones in the Constitution, but rather a pre-election bickering. And that is why we currently have a bill that is constitutionally unsustainable. The declaration of disaster cannot be a criterion on which you will finance the restoration. Why? Because, in particular, you forgot to declare a disaster in a previous earthquake, and you might forget it in a future, while disaster, as such, is defined by the amount of damage it has caused, which was proportional in the previous earthquake equal to this earthquake that has now occurred. We therefore do not consider this criterion good, we believe that new criteria and support and social sensitivity should be established, but also in order to integrate both Sisak and other affected areas, areas of geostrategic importance. And that's why we're going to ask that our amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28937	Thank you very much. Amendment 11 to the amendment of Mr Nikola Grumoja, which is identical to the amendment No. Ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28938	Thank you, Vice President. Amendment under the regular number of 11th parliamentary representative of Nikola Grumoje to Art. We don't accept 5. The amendment is similar to those of the previous five, so the reasoning is similar to that of the previous 5, as the financing of the renewal is prescribed in an appropriate manner through the adoption of the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in this Article. 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28939	The Greek representative is gone, so we have to vote on that. Amendment No. 12 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28940	Thank you very much. Amendment under regular No. 12, amendment of the Club of Green-Left Block Representatives, too, to Art. 5. It is also similar to that previously explained. We do not accept it because, as I have repeated several times already, the financing of reconstruction has been properly prescribed through the adoption of the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28941	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28942	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We in the Green-Left Block Club therefore remain with our amendment because we hold unacceptable that this article actually relies on the declaration of disaster, which is the category that is in the discretionary domain of the government. So we think that it is too much or too much arbitration and therefore we think that our proposal is much more consistent. On the other hand, therefore, our proposal essentially enables the same, and that the building of apartments, houses, earthquake-damaged areas, reconstructions in the state's 100% cost, if, by any standard, they include assisted areas, either at the county level, or at the level of units of local self-government. On the other hand, I also draw attention to the fact that in our amendment we are proposing another item that is unusually important to us, which concerns the restoration of public procurement buildings. We also believe, and in the amendment, we have proposed that the state restores in a 100% cost public procurement building in the complete territory of Sisak-Moslavina County. So we stay with the amendment and ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28943	... Amendment No. 13 MPs Katarina Peovic. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28944	Thank you, Vice President. The amendment under the regular number of 13 MPs Katarina Peovic was also submitted to the article. No. 5., it is similar to the 6 amendments to the net explanation, so since we do not accept it and the explanation is almost identical, the financing of the renewal is prescribed in an appropriate manner, through the adoption of the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28945	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28946	So I'm just going to refer to what my colleagues have already explained, the disaster is an undefined criterion, which is why he was introduced in this law to a small door and should really be excluded, but I'm going to add just one more thing that is important here in this amendment, that a complete renewal not only of the reconstruction structure should be made possible by means of the state budget because here we are talking about assisted areas. If, therefore, other areas that do not belong to that category of aid, we have this social criterion that exempts those who cannot participate with 20% in that renewal, then in assisted areas all to say, we treat them in some way, as social categories but we must also say why and why this criterion should be maintained as dominant rather than introducing criteria. Because there is a rather specific pattern by which they are determined means assisted areas, according to the decision on the classification of units of local and regional (regional) self-government according to the degree of development and in accordance with Article. The 36th Law, meaning the status of assisted areas, has their own areas below the average development of the Republic of Croatia, or 1 to 4 groups of units of local self-government and 1 to 2 groups of units of the regional (regional) self-government and these are tax-based, e.g., average income per capita, average income per capita, average unemployment rate, etc., so even if that criterion is listed as a criterion which has a certain foothold and has some classification resonance, then it is unclear why the disaster criterion was introduced. It could be introduced, now it's a question, so whether those cities that belong to those assisted areas should have the same status Yeah, yeah, I'll ask for a vote on the amendment. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much, ask for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28947	Thank you. 14th Amendment of MPs called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28948	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment under the regular number of 14 MPs, called Brumnić, also on the article. 5. We do not accept because the proposer considers that the deadline of 5 years but not from the day of the earthquake, but from the date of delivery of the final report of the supervisory engineer to prohibit the estrangement of the restored property, which is prescribed by law, and an appropriate time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28949	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28950	Your Honors Minister, I've already submitted this amendment once, and that's when I explained it, and now we see what's going on. The recovery dynamics have not yet begun, which means that while certain people are looking at the dynamics of their real estate, they will not be able to operate for 10, 15 years. I think it's correct that all citizens to whom the state will help are equal before the law, means that their deadline is running from a fixed moment, and that only logical fixed moment was the day of the earthquake. When their real estate will be restored, it is not up to them, depending on how much the state will have money and how much it will be able to finance the renovation. So I think it would be correct for you to accept this amendment. And I'm asking for a vote if it's not accepted. [[/Intruder Reiner: Looking for a vote?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28951	Amendment No. 15 Clubs of MPs of the Homeland Movement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28952	Thank you, Your Honor. Amendment under the regular number of 15 Clubs of Representatives of the Homeland Movement to Art. 6. we do not accept because the proposed legislative solutions are in line with the positive rules governing the redistribution of budgetary resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28953	On behalf of the club, a respected representative of the Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28954	It is absolutely unacceptable to remove all restrictions, respected, respecting the fact of possible needs for rapid reactions, and by hitting the budget voted by the Croatian Parliament, it is absolutely unacceptable to remove all restrictions. The same is absolutely in line with the principle of unity and accuracy of the budget expressed in the Budget Law. Given that it remains and clearly remains a no-limit formulation, there will be a disturbance in the functioning of the users of the budget as it will not be able to plan and carry out its activities and this longer period of time, especially since no one knows how long this law and this provision will be in force and how long it will take to resolve all the consequences of the earthquake. In particular, the need for the regulation of restrictions is highlighted by the principle of balance laid down in the Budget Law, which you set out, so if, during the financial year, due to exceptional unforeseen circumstances, increases expenditures and expenditures, i.e. a reduction of revenue and receipts, the budget must be balanced by finding new incomes and receipts, i.e. by reducing estimated expenditure and expenditure. In other words, you here define the power of the Croatian Parliament as well as the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government to adopt budgets or amending and supplementing budgets, thereby giving the Government or mayors and mayors the authority to dispose of the funds of the budget willingly and without any limitation, so neither financial nor time nor liability. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28955	Amendment No. 16. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28956	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28957	Amendment No. 17. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28958	Amendment under the regular number of 17 SDP Representatives Clubs per article. 7. we do not accept because the adoption of the proposed solution would make it significantly difficult to implement the law on the application of the criteria for the exemption from the costs of co-financing of the reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28959	Dear Representative Bauk on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28960	Our proposal is not to cut off an axe whether someone has the right to 0% or 20%, whether someone has to pay 0% or 20%. So the proposal is to comply with certain criteria that would be as controlled as these now. So I don't know what would make it more difficult than, instead of one, having 4 categories, a certain portion of the population allows it to participate not with 20 or not with 0 but with 5%, 10 and 15. That way it would be a fairer system. So we would make it easier for a part of the citizens who may be just a little above the minimum where they do not exercise the right to 100% but 80%, and it would be easier for them, it would be fairer. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28961	Amendment No. 18 Clubs of Representatives of the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28962	Thank you, Your Honor. Amendment under the regular number of 18 Clubs of Representatives of the Bridge to Art. 7. we do not accept the reason why the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in the modified form and the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives of the Green-left Block proposed legislation has been newly developed and it is prescribed that a specific decision be taken setting out additional criteria for the financing of reconstruction of buildings intended for agriculture, livestock and economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28963	On behalf of the club, respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28964	The point is, then, that we find it unfair that the Government, after declaring the disaster and in areas defined as aided, is no longer a criterion, after the end of the regulation and the assessment of the damage to specific decisions, sets out additional criteria for the release of funds for reconstruction by the owners because we consider it to be clearly and unequivocally defined by the law itself and by no subsequent decisions. That people know whether or not it's funded, which is funded and to what extent it's financed. If we as legislators don't understand exactly how we can expect citizens to even apply to this percentage of funding because we already see that we have a big problem with Zagreb now, we can assume what will only happen with the applications for this. When we talk about subsequent decisions, this is not just a formal amendment, we should remind ourselves of what happened with the Law on Reconstruction then of Zagreb and the Krapina-Zagorje County, this law that we are amending, that the programme of measures already adopted at the beginning has reduced ambition, halved the amount of reconstruction to 42 billion, which is very much within the scope and reach of this renewal and what exactly will be renewed and to what extent the construction will only be strengthened or restored to the previous state. It is our fear that similar will happen to additional decisions and in this case, which applies to these two counties, so we want everything clearly and unequivocally in the law, any sublaws and additional special decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28965	Are you asking for a vote? ... The 19th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. [[Intruder Selak Rasdic, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28966	Thank you, Your Honor. Amendment under order number 19 of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club per article. 7. We accept for nomotechnical reasons and the proposed provision is made up and taken over in art. 5. Proposals of the law so as not to be contradictory. The proposal fully regulates the possibility of a specific decision setting out additional criteria for financing the recovery after an assessment of the damage, buildings intended for agricultural, livestock and economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28967	On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Bakic, do you accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28968	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I think you've connected two of our amendments, 19th and 20th. The 20th is therefore talking about buildings of economic purpose, i.e. economic facilities, Article 19. The 7th paragraph of the 3rd you accepted, right? So anyway, the 19th Amendment, as I understand it...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28969	I would ask, given that the debate on the content of the law is over, so I think I've given a very clear explanation, if you accept it, well, if not, we'll vote on the content of the amendment. ... That's right. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The 19th Amendment if you want to read it literally. [[Intruder Reiner: The 19th Amendment has been accepted in changed form.]] ‘The proposed new paragraph 3 shall be deleted’ and we agree to delete the new paragraph.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28970	So the amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28971	So we are the subject paragraph 3. 7. fit in Art. Paragraph 5.11 and further explain what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28972	Okay, let's get to art. 20. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28973	Thank you very much. Amendment under order number 20, amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives to Article 20. 9. we do not accept for the reason that the adoption of the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives in the amended form of a special provision of the law is regulated and the question of the regulation of additional criteria for the financing of reconstruction of buildings intended for agricultural, livestock and economic activity by a special decision of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28974	On behalf of the club, respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28975	Thank you. We're here now where I just intervened. So, if I understand, it's late, we're all tired, we're all a little distracted, so now we're on a scale, now we're on amendment no. 20 and I'll tell him we're staying with him right now. So, like I said, on the one hand he's consistent with our first amendment, it's usually on my list of amendments no. 4, so we really believe that it is necessary explicitly in this law to provide for the restoration of economic facilities and in this respect in our proposal, that, before the minister says, the government predicts that the actual financing of the restoration of economic agricultural facilities is defined only by some future government decision, we believe that this is not a good way and that it should be installed immediately in this law, therefore, as I said, we remain in the amendment and we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28976	Thank you. You're looking for a vote, then. The 21st amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28977	Thank you. Amendment under the regular number of 21 MPs Katarina Peović per article. 9. It is also identical as 4 amendments to the previous and only clarification is almost and identical, we do not accept it for the reason that, by accepting the amendments of the HDZ Club of Representatives in the amended form of a special provision of the law, the issue of laying down additional criteria for future financing of renovation of buildings intended for agricultural, livestock and economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28978	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28979	Here's a quick repeat of what the problem is, what's bothering us here when we proposed this amendment is that the matter should be resolved by law, so the law did not fall under the law, but the HDZ amendment foresees that only a special decision will establish these additional criteria for financing the reconstruction of buildings intended for agricultural, livestock and economic activity. What we think is not okay is that only some future special decision defines it while, I mean, it could simply become part of the law, and that, these livestock facilities, the economic activity, of course, is connected to that area, given that all the industries in the dark socialism there have long been abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28980	You're looking for a vote, aren't you? Amendment No. 22 Clubs of National Movement Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28981	Thank you, Your Honor. Amendment under order number 22, amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement to Art. 10. is not accepted because cultural and historical units in the area of Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County were introduced into the law on the basis of data from the competent ministry until there were no data on the damage within these historical units for the areas of Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28982	On behalf of the MPs' club, the respected representative of Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28983	So, Your Honor, by amendment to Art. On 10th we asked that the words "and cultural and historical units in Sisak-moslavina, Karlovačka, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County" be added to the historically collected city of Zagreb", why? Because the earthquake of 28 and 29 December 2020 affected both Zagrebačka and Krapina-Zagorska counties, which abound with cultural and historical units, and there is no reason for those counties to be left out of this article, taking into account the knowledge that, for example, in the area of the town of Zapresic, certain damages occurred at the castle and chapel which are part of the cultural and historical complex of the Novi Dvori Jelačići, I must therefore conclude that we are extremely sorry that you left out these areas as if they were not an integral part of the Republic. And of course, I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28984	23rd Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28985	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28986	24th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28987	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28988	25th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28989	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28990	And the 26th Amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28991	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28992	Thank you very much. We now have a statement in connection with the final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the city of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. Representative Davorko Vidovic proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes every three months to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on all actions taken to remove the damage caused by the earthquake on 28 and 29. 12. In 2020, in the area of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and the Carlova County." I would like to ask the representative of the proposer to give an indication of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28993	Thank you, Your Honor. The proposed conclusion is not accepted by the applicant because we believe that reporting on the activities and costs of the reconstruction that the ministry is obliged to publish in full and inform the public in accordance with the rules in the area of the right to access information, adequately regulated. Paragraph 13 which becomes paragraph 10 of these amendments and the amendments to the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u28994	A representative of Vidovic is missing, so we will have to vote on this conclusion. We will now enter into a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for a Penal Code, a second reading of P.Z. No. 11. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Veljko Kajtazi and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Josip Salapic, first of all, to Amendment No. Article 1 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u29046	We accept the Vice-President of all amendments to the Committee on Legislatives, MP Veljak Kajtazi, and the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u29047	Thank you, then we've dealt with it pretty quickly. Now we'd move on to the amendment statement. First of all, a statement on the amendment to the proposal of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment submitted, the esteemed EU Regional Development Minister and the EU funds, Natasa Tramišak, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30104	Thank you. Dear MPs, the recognised amendment to the proposal for a national development of the Republic of Croatia's strategy by 2030 was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club in HS. The proposed amendment is in the sense of adding performance indicators, which is the proportion of temporary employees in the total staff to reduce the Treaty to a fixed time. Initial value of 18.1% of the contract in the reference year 2019 and target value in 2030. is to reach the average of EU Member States to 15.1%. The same is in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme on redefining labour legislation where one of the main topics will be to reduce the number of contracts to certain and increase the safety of Croatian workers. It is also in line with the proposal of this National Development Strategy, where, apart from the economic emphasis, the social dimension of employment, the quality of jobs. We therefore believe that the definition of indicators that will indicate that the same improvement contributes to the quality and measurement of the National Development Strategy by 2030. Following all of this, since the proposal also has the support of the relevant Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy, the amendment is being adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30105	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, it becomes an integral part of the proposal. It is now a statement on, the applicant of the amendment on the SDP Club, which proposes HS adoption of the following conclusion: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend the composition of the Steering Committee for the Construction of the National Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. in a way that the Management Board, instead of one representative of HS and its deputy, makes up a total of 6 representatives of HS and their deputies, 3 from the ranks of representatives of the ruling majority and 3 from the lines of opposition.’ I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion. On behalf of the promoter who, uh, excuse me, this respected Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Natasa Tramišak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30106	Thank you. Dear MPs, the proposed conclusion is rejected, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is on 28 September 2017. It adopted a Decision establishing the Management Board and the Executive Working Group for the construction of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, which formally launched the process of drawing up the National Development Strategy itself. According to the decision in question, the representative of HS is already part of the Management Board, and therefore the conclusion in question is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30107	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must admit, in one part of my soul, I felt relieved, and in another, it was difficult. As far as relief is concerned, you have removed from us the responsibility to try to fix at least in implementing this disastrously bad act against which we will vote tomorrow, but on the other hand, as responsible politicians, it is still a little difficult for us not to at least try to fix such a disastrous act that will have to be implemented. That is why, of course, we cannot support the strategy, and yet this is the conclusion you refused in the appointment of the board of directors, so it is neither on your part nor on our part any new. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30363	Honorable MPs and respected MPs, good morning. Thanks to media representatives, we are moving towards the announcement: - Report on the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the COVID-19 outbreak caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period 11 March 2020 to 15 January 2021. The applicant is the Government on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted on 4 December 2020. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Before I give my word to the applicant's representative for an additional explanation, I see some have come forward, I have seen colleague Selak Rasdic, I assume you're looking for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30364	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, I am looking for a 10-minute break because this is a report of questionable credibility and reveals some practices that concern the general public and exceed this point. In that sense, I'd like to warn you of a few things. First, it's a matter of vaccination. Croatian citizens need to know that this report states that I translate, that we will become vaccine dealers. That we will obtain more vaccines than we need to make the EU an attractive market and then resell or donate the vaccine afterwards. Second thing, I'm saying this is a report of questionable credibility. The questionable credibility because it says one of the key figures that we will obtain about 6 800,000 doses of vaccines because these are the needs of Croatian citizens while in the government's conclusion of December 23rd, which this report also calls for. It states that we will get 5,900 000 doses of vaccines, which is the needs of Croatian citizens. How did the needs of Croatian citizens skip nearly one million in a few weeks? Did we give birth to some 500,000 Croats more, so we got additional needs for the vaccine? These are the explanations that are necessary to discuss this report at all. And third, the procurement procedure. We have repeatedly insisted that the purchase of medical equipment be returned to the public procurement process, you said it was impossible because it is how you safeguard Croatia's strategic interests. In this report, we learn that the EU is conducting a joint procurement procedure for Remdesivir and for the respirator. So the standards that the EU can do with us are unacceptable. Perhaps the EU is stupid of doing public procurement because it does not safeguard its strategic interests. These are the answers we would like to discuss further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30365	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30366	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS. We looked forward to this report. ... The crown's been for a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Over those years, we've had a series of good things and a series of mistakes. What we expected would be in this report, that there would be one analysis of what and how to do in some future when such things happen and I must admit that I am truly disappointed. I'm disappointed for the simple reason that we have a series of decisions here which and how, but we should have done some sort of analysis of all this. We should have made an analysis of the mistakes from which we learned something that didn't happen to us in the future. So a series of these pages to the insufferable list of all possible things isn't good. That report should be like any report, a series of conclusions that will be done in the future. So there's no textbook from which anyone could learn when such a disease occurs that everyone calls the 19th century Satan's disease when the only thing against it is to stay home and stay in isolation but what do you do next? What do you do at this point? What mistakes did we learn from? We couldn't really see it from this dry report. You know well that and lock down no matter how he was, in a certain way he restricted our freedoms. I was expecting that perhaps there might be a representative of the MUP with Minister Beros, so that we could discuss these matters. So this is the moment when we can discuss in the Assembly something that has become our daily life and what we certainly don't all want together to be our daily life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30367	We're going on a run request for a break, respected colleague Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30368	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian National Assembly. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Homeland Movement. We all know that this crisis has hit the economy not only of Croatia but of the whole world. A colleague of Mrak-Taritash would like to see someone here from the MUP, I'd like to see someone from the Ministry of Economy, the finance, because the fact is that small entrepreneurs are the most affected by the measures used to contain the epidemic. From this report we have one review of the measures very detailed and a list of absolutely all the measures that have been adopted so far but we do not know which direction the headquarters will go further. Our economies, especially small people who are most at risk in this crisis, must know how they will operate, they do not know what is going on, measures are being taken and measures are not being taken at the same time and measures to compensate for the losses they have in their business, and then some negotiations are going on, weights such as payers and they cannot operate, must know at the same time that the measures are being banned, which are also compensatory measures that have been issued, but are bringing them a large amount of uncertainty in their business that are obviously continuing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30369	And this break has been approved. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30370	Good day to you all. My question is, since we know that Croatia, the EU has also agreed and signed contracts, we see now the situation of the vaccine. I'm curious about what exit strategies we have at this point, how autonomous our health care institutions are about alternative vaccines, so I'd like to ask the answer we're even thinking, what our position on all other vaccines is, for example, About Sputnik or Sinopharm, have We done any of this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30371	Okay. No more demands, then we'll... Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30372	... Your microphone? [[Specially enabled.]] Since I see huge concerns among the members of the opposition for the citizens and this topic, I am asking for a break to remind me of some of their statements. [[Here, let's do it. Return, return time just please.]] From 5.9., several MPs participated in a protest against the coronal and vaccination control measures, until 25.10. in one opposition representative's journal, we will surely cross 10 thousand infected per day in 10 days, the measures taken are not sufficient, 25.10. So then 15.4., the first wave, again, one representative of the opposition, is delayed to an indefinite time of surgery of malignant tumors after the closed KB of Dubrava, it's terrible, untrue. Then, on 2.12. again, the debate in the Parliament and one opposition representative, I fear that these decisions of amendments to the law are returning to a dark period of totalitarian regimes, I fear that these amendments and additions of the law will not achieve the desired goal, a reduction of the pandemic corona, etc., etc. Another representative said, I would say that the law was made so that he directly pushes us into corrupt operations, and then the same representative 10.12., it must be stopped because the assessment of the serious institutions that Croatia has only come to 50% of the ill and severe consequences, the assumption is that by March there will be 8 to 10 thousand deaths and that we should prepare our population, someone must start telling him the truth and finally, the system has not prepared at all for the control of the pandemic, you have not prepared the provision of medical services, health services have become inaccessible, headquarters in this system with these powers one unnecessarily [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and the extra body. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Reiner.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30373	The apartment will be approved. We're going to the Sixth Request now, Comrade Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30374	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, The fact is, in the last few weeks, the Republic of Croatia has had a serious reduction in the number of infected. I don't think I'm the only one who's going to have this reduction in the number of people infected in connection with stricter measures, and I feel free to say that there is a serious indication that the measures are working. But then the question arises, despite what counterpart Reiner is now saying, why haven't these measures been taken before? What was to take more than a month from the beginning of October to the end of November to bring more concrete measures? What allowed tens of thousands to be infected and hundreds of them to die unnecessarily? That's a question we have to ask, which you, colleague Reiner, are not answering. You play the whole story and insult it. These are serious questions that we need to discuss today and draw conclusions from them. If we made a mistake once, let's not make a mistake again. However, this report has one serious, serious deficiency and we will point to it, which is that there is still no deep analysis that will show what the sources of the infection are and why the closure, for example, of the catering facilities, while at the same time allowing some others to work is useful and effective? Dear colleagues and colleagues, such a deep analysis would represent a kind of radar. The radar we need, that we don't fly through this pandemic like we do through the fog, and unfortunately there's no radar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30375	Thank you. And we're going to the 7th request for a break, colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30376	Dear President of the HS, I demand a break from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. Dear Ministers, here is a key issue that probably all Croatian citizens are asking themselves, how they work in BiH catering facilities, and how the number of people who are sick, infected on the respirator and hospitalized in Bosnia is getting smaller and smaller, and that the epidemiological situation in that country is better than in Croatia, and in Croatia we have strict lockdown, i.e. in the restaurant, cafes, can't work. And now I'm wondering if the Bosnians are smarter than us, or maybe we're smarter? What's the problem? What's the problem? Explain this to me. How does BiH today have only 400 patients? And there's no lockdown. And the other thing that I would pay attention to the Croatian public here is how ridiculous the EU is. Andrej Plenkovic boasted to us from this pay phone ten times as he ordered thousands and thousands of vaccines. Millions of vaccines, and finally one Serbia that is not in the EU, which is by way of economic development even behind us has already vaccinated 320 thousand people, I must stress here that, that each one is being vaccinated according to its own opinion, and that Croatia, which is in that advanced EU, is not in a position for those who want to be vaccinated, to provide the vaccine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30377	And this break will be approved. Do we have any more interested? If not, we'll continue at exactly 10 o'clock. It's 9:00.48. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:59 A.M.]] I call upon the Honorable Minister of Health, William Beros, to address us, and he has announced that a part of the speech will be spoken and respected State Secretary in the MUP, Teresa Grass. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30379	... In 2020, at the 4th session following the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with delivering a report to the Croatian Parliament 3 times a year in the effects of implementing the measures laid down in the law, I am speaking to you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and reporting to you on the effects of the implementation of measures under the Law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases during the outbreak COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 11 March 2020 to 15 January 2021 and today on the 339th day since the start of the epidemic. [[Specially enabled.]] The report shall include a description of the activities undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia and other bodies in order to protect the public-health interest or to implement measures and procedures aimed at protecting public health in the area of the Republic of Croatia due to the outbreak of this disease. The implementation and effects of the public protection measures against COVID-19 disease are detailed in the report and are supported by the relevant additions by a review of decisions, solutions, instructions and recommendations and other acts taken during the duration of the epidemic. The report also includes an explanation of the provisions of the draft Law on the Protection of Population against Contagious Diseases of April and December 2020 as well as the course of management of the CIVID-19 epidemic in Croatia. Management of the principles of efficiency and proportionality and due to the continuing danger of exponential growth in the number of patients, measures were needed to achieve the legitimate objective of protecting life and the health of citizens. In this sense, the Republic of Croatia has very early started implementing epidemiological and other measures aimed at curbing and spreading this infection. One of the first measures, if you remember, was border surveillance of returnees from the affected areas with the aim of early detection of patients. As regards the preparation of the health system for the special circumstances of the COVID-19 disease epidemic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health have been continuing to take measures to adapt and improve the functioning of the health system in the exceptional situations of the COVID-19 disease epidemic. As part of the international activities of 28 January 2020, the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council activated an integrated political response mechanism to the crisis. That mechanism is specific to the needs of horizontal, inter-resorship coordination, information exchange on all issues related to this disease and enables close operational cooperation between Member States. During the Croatian EU Presidency, two extraordinary Councils for the Employment of Social Policy and Consumers were organised in the first half of 2020, hence the epic council in the form of health ministers and 5 informal video conferences of health ministers. These events have addressed the current topics related to this disease and, consequently, the appropriate modality of the coordination of Member States in order to reduce the impact of the disease on the whole of the EU. In view of the declared epidemic and the overall epidemiological situation and in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19 disease more effectively, it was necessary to approach the amendments and additions of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. In this way, legal assumptions have been provided for the more effective implementation of public protection measures against this new infectious disease. Amendments and additions to the law have established an institutional model of crisis management appropriate to the urgency of the pandemic which allows rapid action in case of growth of the number of patients, as well as the achievement of the principle of effectiveness and the principle of proportionality. This model ensures that measures taken achieve the objectives set, primarily the protection of human health and life. The measures implemented pursuant to these principles shall, at the same time, be strictly appropriate to the needs of the given moment and shall only last until such circumstances require everything to be limited to the extent necessary and appropriate to the nature of the need for their restriction by the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and rights of citizens at all times. The headquarters, in accordance with the epidemiological situation at the right time, brought about and when the epidemiological situation allowed and mitigated the measures imposed. It is important to stress that since the beginning of the day, the headquarters has been monitoring the epidemiological situation and acting on its own in due time or in coordination with the county headquarters, maintaining a flexible approach to public health implementation, has sometimes differed among the counties especially from the scope of the measures. Namely, the epidemiological situation was uncommonly marked during the epidemic by significant differences in the cumulative incidence rates of newly infected persons in certain counties, which required a modulated response according to the complexity of the current situation. The suppression of the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia marked two waves as you know. The first wave during the spring and early summer of 2020 marked the strict epidemiological measures to limit social gatherings with restrictions on the mobility of citizens who were followed by a very effective control of the epidemic. At the end of May and in the first half of June 2020, we on several occasions recorded periods and up to a few days without newly infected persons. Due to the good epidemiological results in the first wave, we have enabled the development of the tourist season and the activation of economic activities. The arrival of the autumn, in line with the predictions of the epidemiologists, and thus Croatia, was struck by a strong second wave of pandemics. Despite the permanent and transparent daily communication with citizens and the appeal to adherence to measures, there has been a leap in the daily number of infected. In early October 2020, there was a marked increase in the number of cases. Trends in the number of newly infected people continue until mid-December, followed by the introduction of additional epidemiological measures on 28 November 2020, the epidemiological situation is beginning to calm down. Since mid-December 2020, the number of active cases has dropped to date. Today's incidence is 119.5 newly infected in 14 days on 100,000 inhabitants, where we are 7th in the EU's successful countries. During the entire duration of the epidemic, the Ministry of Health implements on a continuous basis a number of activities that help improve and organise work in the health system that adapts daily to the requirements of the country's epidemiological situation. In doing so, the imperative was to ensure timely health care for patients with Covid’s disease, Covid-19, but to ensure continued care for the urgent and priority patients, especially oncologically. In accordance with the needs of health institutions, the Ministry of Health made decisions on temporary deployment of workers and medical technical equipment, totalling 924 temporary workers in 20 health institutions, and made use of 138 pieces of medical-technical equipment, most of which are respirators. The first patients affected by Covid-19 took care of the Infectious Disease Clinic, Dr. Fran Mihaljevic, given the increase in the number of patients, is forming the primary respiratory-intensive centres as the central centres for the reception and treatment of patients in KB Dubrava, KBC Split and KBC Osijek. As a place of temporary medical care provided to the diseases of Covid-19, Arena Zagreb is also established. This spring was not yet operational and it was equipped for the work of medical technical equipment and the required number of health and health care professionals. With the increase in the number of patients in their treatment, acute county hospitals, such as Varazdin and Chakovez hospitals, have been gradually involved, with the necessary staff and equipment to provide care for the patients of Covida-19 with constant assistance from the Ministry of Health. With the units of local self-government and county civil protection headquarters, we have coordinated the formation of secondary centres for the admission of Covid-19 positive patients who require more complex treatment than ordinary accommodation in a special hospital and secondary centres in the districts, and the Tertiary Centres for Accommodation Covid-19 patients who will receive patients with a milder clinical image, and continuously provide the schedule of healthcare professionals and medical equipment in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia according to the development of the epidemiological situation and the current needs of patients. The EU Commission and participating Member States agreement in the acquisition of Covid-19 vaccines since 30 July 2020 authorised the EU to negotiate on their behalf with vaccine manufacturers at a time when the vaccine was not yet known and when it would develop and conclude prior purchase agreements with those producers that it considers will still succeed in producing vaccines. Doses were allocated to Member States according to Eurostat methodology in a solidarity, proportion to the population. Croatia has so far joined agreements with 5 vaccine manufacturers to ensure that the amount of vaccine provided is sufficient for the free vaccination of all citizens. To this end, by January 15, we have booked, as someone has already said 6.8 million doses of vaccines today, covering the needs of the population, given that one patient receives 2 doses. The plan for the introduction, implementation and monitoring of vaccines against Covid-19 disease in the Republic of Croatia was adopted by the Government in December 2020. The objectives of the vaccination plan are not only to reduce mortality and serious complications of the disease caused by this new virus but also to reduce the risk of spread of infection, and thus to reduce the negative effects on the health and normal functioning of society. The distribution of vaccines also leads to the principle of solidarity and the necessary care for the most needed. Therefore, at the start of vaccination, vaccination is directed towards people with the most fragile health, in homes for elderly and powerless persons. Vaccination takes place in phases according to the order of the vaccination priorities. After home users for elderly and powerless persons and adults with disabilities, employees of these institutions will be vaccinated and healthcare professionals, and then other people at increased risk, especially those of older age and chronic patients through active access to the population. It will then allow vaccination to be made for all other interested citizens. On 17 March 2020, the Government adopted a decision on the acquisition of goods from strategic stockpiles to implement health protection measures. On the basis of this decision, the Department of Stocks of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development has so far invested more than 522 million in the purchase of goods and services for the implementation of health protection measures and the strengthening of control over the spread of the coronary virus. On 10 November 2020, a grant agreement was signed on a project to protect and preserve the health system and public health through the procurement of medical and protective equipment in the fight against Covid, which provided around 370 million kuna of grants from the European Regional Development Fund. Following Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's agreement with Chinese Prime Minister Li, a total of 7 direct flights on the line from Shanghai to Zagreb were agreed and a total of 455.3 tonnes of goods were delivered to date. All this time, the public had available all information on the implementation of the measures, primarily through the official website of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for timely and accurate information on the coronary virus launched on 17 March 2020. The public was also presented on 14 April 2020 also the interactive system of Andrija, the first digital assistant based on artificial intelligence to assist in the fight against coronaryvirus. As part of a joint digital response by EU member states to the epidemic of the new coronary virus, Croatia launched an application on July 27th, a voluntary and anonymous user can provide other users with whom he has been in an epidemiological risk contact with a solidarity of the risk of infection. As soon as the European Commission created the EU Federation Croatia as a 7th country of Croatia, the EU established a cross-border exchange of data with the official applications of other EU member states. During the course of the national administration’s epidemic, they cooperated with each other, provided information and coordinated monitoring in order to improve efficiency and rationality, and the amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of People against Infectious Diseases have had a significant positive effect in the effectiveness of implementing the decisions of the Croatian Civil Protection Headquarters to prevent the spread of this disease. Without any doubt, distinguished representatives and representatives may argue that the Government and the competent authorities responded in due time and effectively to the specific circumstances caused by the Covid-19 disease epidemic and to protect the health of citizens. This epidemiologically shortened version of the exposition that was already longer makes it impossible for me and everything that we have done, so I believe that in response to your replicas I will have the opportunity to do so, but finally I propose that, based on all of the above-mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose HS acceptance of this report. Now I'm going to ask a colleague of the State Secretary of the Department of Interior to continue this exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30380	I thank the minister. All I'm asking is that we wipe out the pay phone, stop the time, and just a little state secretary. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30381	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. And in the next few minutes, I will try to give a brief review of the measures and decisions taken by the headquarters in the area of the MUP, the state inspectorate in the field of tourism and sports, science and education, as well as the effects of the measures in the field of social policy. It is worth recalling at the beginning that the government appointed a headquarters on February 20th last year and that the first session of headquarters was held on February 25th, and the first measures the headquarters adopted on March 19th when the amendments to the Civil Protection System Act enabled him to do so. The first 4 decisions of the headquarters concerned the restriction of social gatherings, trade operations, service activities, maintenance of sporting and cultural events, the ban on crossing border crossings, the definition of border crossings for transit of freight vehicles and the ban on shipping of cruises. By summer, the headquarters, acting on epidemiological measures and situations, had taken measures and lenient measures. The deterioration of the epidemiological situation in mid-August was the reason for the adoption of measures related to the restriction of bar work, and measures were also introduced for individual counties and JLS. By the end of the year, measures were introduced for almost all counties and 10 JLS. In addition to measures at the county and local level, the headquarters adopted measures at the level of the whole of Croatia concerning mandatory masking, restrictions on social gatherings, restrictions on the work of catering facilities and measures to limit gatherings to prevent the spread of Covid-19 diseases. By 13 January of this year, the headquarters made a decision on its own or on a proposal from the county headquarters, of which 244 decisions were taken after the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, and based on Article 2(1)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 47th of that law, i.e. the basis of Art. 47th of that Law. 22a. Civil Protection Act. As Minister Beroš has already pointed out in his presentation, but here I want to point out once more. When making decisions, the headquarters acted according to certain principles and, above all, to introduce epidemiological measures primarily with a view to protecting the lives and health of our citizens, and proportionately to limit the functioning of the economy and other segments of social and private life. The views and recommendations of epidemiological professions and scientists were primarily respected at national and county level. Co-ordination with local and county headquarters has ensured quality, professional and timely implementation of measures, and has given great importance to crisis communication in order to inform our citizens in time and transparently about the epidemiological situation, with the advantage being given to educational and preventive action instead of repressive whenever possible. And the headquarters has consistently highlighted the importance of personal responsibility and the importance of contributing to each individual’s spread prevention of Covid-19 disease. The supervision of the implementation of the measures and decisions of the headquarters was carried out by the inspectors of the Directorate of Civil Protection, the inspectors of the State Inspectorate, and since 5 December and since the entry into force of the Law supplementing the Public Protection Act against Infectious Diseases, part of the surveillance of the implementation of the security measures has been carried out by police officers. When it comes to the State Inspectorate, with the supervision of the implementation of the measures and decisions of the headquarters, it is important to highlight and sanitary inspection carried out by the inspectors of the State Inspectorate on the basis of an article. 68. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases against persons coming from countries where certain infectious diseases exist. More important decisions from the second half of last year are worth singled out from 27 November and 18 December. Decisions of 27 November and 18 December prescribed the suspension of the work of catering facilities and the provision of catering services in the OPGs, and excluded hotels, camps, dormitories and dormitories that can serve guests who use accommodation services. Restaurants, cafes, taverns, cellars can deliver food and drink if it is downloaded in front of the facility or delivered or if the download is enabled by drive-in. The work of the facilities from the group “Other catering facilities for accommodation and facilities of simple services” has been completely suspended. The 27 November decision also suspended the work of gyms, fitness, sports and recreation centres and, however, made it possible Excuse me. [[Intruder: State Secretary, time is up so please...]] Here, therefore, with the measures taken in the field of sports certainly [[Intruder:... to finish.]] Okay. Okay. [[Intruder: No, 10 seconds are up.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30382	I thank you so in some other address you will explain what you have failed to say now. Now let's go with the replicas, please just delete the pay phone. A colleague, or Minister Beroš, will be here now. We have 31 lines, so there's gonna be a lot of work. Here you go. The first one is a colleague of Zekanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30383	Dear Minister Berosch, I've asked a question at the stop, now I expect an answer, I'll repeat the question. How is it that BiH, where Croats also live, means we have no genetic difference or very little, has a smaller and smaller number of patients, regardless of the absence of such lockdown as Croatia has, or have, open catering facilities? Do you understand me? So they're getting smaller and smaller, and they don't have lockdown, caterers, restaurants and cafes working. And another small question, and this is a comment on this ridiculous incompetence of the EU, which, regardless of what our Prime Minister boasted 1,000 times from this pay phone, is that we will get a vaccine, how is it that there is no vaccine for those who want to be vaccinated, and how today, Serbia, incompetent Serbia under quotes, has 10 times more vaccines than Croatia has?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30384	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30385	Thank you very much. Your Honor, your question may also be answered by a question, how is it possible that in a large, strong, economically developed UK, nothing is working, and the number of infected is growing from day to day? So, the answer is not uniform, there are a series of elements in the game, starting with what virus is spreading to the population, so where one is present, some of these new mutations, to how much infancy there is of a particular population because we know that even during the summer BiH did not have stronger measures, which may have allowed more people and asymptomatic infections and not being sick, and now they are resistant to disease. Therefore, the answer is in the domain of epidemiology, and neither you nor I, I suppose, are professional enough to analyze everything else, but it is a complex question that only science can provide the right answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30386	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30387	Art. 238. I thought you were a doctor and a health minister. If you're not competent to answer that question, who is it? So what are you doing here if you can't answer that question?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30388	Comrade Zekanovic, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are being warned, please sit down and do not do this. Let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30389	Dear Minister, we see that the catering facilities and restaurants are closed to prevent the infection. We come to a gas station, we come to a certain go coffee, there are certain areas, there are thousands of people on each other, thousands of people, why such a punishment to the caterers, restaurants, and in certain places we have thousands of people? The controversial decisions made by the Staff, which, colleague Zekanovic, please, If you can say, your decisions as a Staff, meaning the controversial decisions you've made, one you've made, and the other you've had to, we know, I'll always repeat, that it wasn't a good decision when you looked like you caught the virus, and basically then you're [[Agreement: Comrade Zekanovic, please behave in accordance with the rules, you do some incidents all the time, here you go, colleague Bulj.]] People, you're up. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] taking pictures on Facebook with [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The stars. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30390	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30391	Thank you for asking and remembering these earlier elements, multiple Mr. Parliamentary MP, so catering facilities, so cafes and restaurants according to the epidemiological profession are absolutely the source of the spread of the virus. People don't come to cafes and restaurants just take coffee for the outside but come primarily to hang out, come to spend time with themselves dear people and that's why the epidemiological waist at this point is still thinking about whether to enable the operation of cafes and restaurants. It is unquestionable and detected around the world that these are areas of spread of infection. Gas stations, bakerys, where coffee shops are also sold outside are absolutely not open and their meaning is not the sale of coffee, but the sale of either gasoline or bakery products. The fact that there's some unequal practice and people are getting coffee there wouldn't be a problem. get coffee and go, and not after that continue hanging out [[Intruder: Thank you.]] near these catering facilities. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30392	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30393	... /Intruder: Someone just left it on, who else but a colleague of Zekanovic, so please, colleagues only if you can. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, well, well, here we go, we're off. Here you go. Excuse me. Yeah. Dear Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I wonder if there is any long-term plan of protection measures against the spread of the Covid-19 virus aimed at ensuring the balance between the protection of citizens' health and the need to ensure positive conditions for businessmen, mostly from the catering sector, as well as the realization of the tourist season, or will we introduce ad hoc measures based on current indicators and hope for the best? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30394	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30395	Your Honor, ma'am. Parliamentary MPs, thank you for this question and for the opportunity to say now what is the fact, which is that we are already thinking about the next tourist season because it is only possible to take into account those actions that our competitors in this segment will take into account. However, the answer to your question is this. From day to day we follow the epidemiological situation, the number of newly infected is not one element, we have a series of elements, from the possibility of a new viral strain, I will tell you what kind of danger it is later if I have opportunities, until the moment of time, so winter is further, to the fact that certain mobility of citizens has increased by moving children from 1st to 4th grade to school, as well as ending annual vacations, so it's all a series of elements that we follow from day to day and we try to give the best answer. What's the point of today's report is to say what we did by January 15th. Also, let's not run away from it. talk about plans in the future [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] But that's another topic, even though we're not running away about it. [[The intrusion of the president: Thank you, Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30396	Minister, I'm asking you to hold on for a minute because the MPs have to stick to the minutes. Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30397	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Minister Berosch. How do you comment on an affair in your ranks that we have been witnessing lately, the affairs in which strict violations of existing measures and the unreasonable behaviour of actors appear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30398	Excuse me, I didn't just hear you guys having any affairs? [[Intruder Nikolic: From your ranks, Chief of Staff.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30399	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30400	Thank you very much, ma'am. Parliamentarians. So for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the same rules apply, especially at this time of the global pandemic and the local epidemic, so the adherence of basic epidemiological postulates is essential for preventing the spread of the virus, therefore for all those who break those rules, we can only somehow condemn them and call them and warn others not to do the same. So, I even have to tell you, if everyone were to stick to 4 or basic epidemiological measures, that these other measures concerning both the economy and the work of hospitality, I've been talking about this since the beginning of this debate, wouldn't be necessary. However, we do not adhere to the public's sense of responsibility and awareness of the problem, very likely with the increase in the number of newly ill and unfortunately large numbers of deaths, therefore, it is absolutely such behaviour to condemn and once again I call on everyone to adhere to basic epidemiological measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30401	Comrade Sablar-Dračevac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30402	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, citizens are concerned about the delivery of the vaccine. What has the government done in particular lately, and what is the new vaccination plan, and will we be vaccinated by the season? She would point out once again that a whole group of melitus diabetics has been missed through the campaign and that this is a significant group of 500,000 citizens who should definitely be told through the campaign that they are in a vulnerable group and that they have to split because they end more often at artificial ventilation, their symptoms are more frequent, more difficult and more often die than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30403	Thank you for a very important and exceptional question that interests all of us together. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia began to consider and obtain vaccines with the European Commission a long time ago. Why are such quantities, I'd very much like to explain, so precisely because we've negotiated when there's no known who's going to or when it's going to develop the vaccine. Let's say most of Europe was oriented at that time towards Astra Zeneca, or Oxford vaccine, and we ordered the largest number of these doses to establish that Pfizer and Moderna would be the first, that only now is the third, so Astra Zeneca's turn. Therefore, these are circumstances that we could not influence at that time, what was our idea was absolutely to do everything to make vaccines available to Croatian citizens. What is now happening with the reduction in the delivery of Pfizer's vaccine, although it is in total around 15 per cent, however, falls at an awkward moment of vaccination that will have to be extended and possible from 21st to 42nd days.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30404	Thank you. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30405	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we all agree that health is an extra-party issue, we've talked a lot about it, I believe that all these measures that you've taken were in the public health interest, although many have been delayed, but here's what we'll talk about later, my particular question. So you have to admit that we, as well as opposition and waist, were very actively involved in this problem related to COVID pandemic. We proposed concrete measures, we were not very respected, so one of the tools was to ask parliamentary questions. So here you are on this road, please, since I personally asked you four representative questions regarding the COVID pandemic of 25. 11th, and you haven't answered any of my questions, so you can answer me in writing, about the number of respirators throughout the Republic of Croatia, about the number of intensive doctors, about the implementation of online teaching measures and other measures related to the epidemiological situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30406	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30407	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, I ask that the next time we comment, confirm this because what I'm about to say now stands. So I have signed the answer these days to 3 of the 4 parliamentary questions I thank you for, and I really believe that the issue of health is an extra-party issue and that we are all in some way considering the same, of course in a positive sense, which is for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So here's hoping you'll confirm these words of mine, three out of four are signed and four is in the making as well as the answer Mr. Glavasevic who last called me, so I hurried his services to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30408	My fellow Witness, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30409	Your Honor, why are we going from extreme to extreme? First, in March 2020, we had very strict measures, then there was a sudden fall during the summer. After how you get...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30410	My friend's story, just a little bit, please. Comrade Grmoy, you are not correct towards your colleague and not only you today but there is a lot of movement here, a lot of loud talk, please take your seats or negotiate outside what you already need to arrange. Here people must speak and have peace when they speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30411	I'll start from the beginning. So why are we going from extreme to extreme? First, in March 2020, we had very strict measures, then there was a sudden drop during the summer, as the situation was rapidly getting worse, waiting, when the situation was getting worse, we were one of the worst in the world, waiting a month after that, extremely strict measures were introduced. In this way we only create further stress for Croatian society, for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30412	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30413	Thank you very much for that question, Mr. MP. The measures were taken according to our knowledge at a given time and information not only from Europe but from around the world. They were adapted to the moment with the intention of responding best to certain challenges in those moments. So we learned on both our own and others' mistakes. But the magic wand and recipe that would be uniform, it just doesn't. You can ask us why we were delayed if it was delayed at all, I don't think it was, brought in at the end of the year measures. Well, look, no one could know and assume because what happened in Međimurje and Varazdin County is beyond all expectations, such rapid growth of the newly infected is only now possible with the emergence of a new viral strain and so is the analysis that was made with the sequestration of samples from Međimurje, therefore, these were then unknown circumstances and no one could count on it to increase so large at one point the number But we adjusted the measures. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30414	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30415	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Sisak-Moslavina County was hit by a severe earthquake, all the emergency services responded very quickly, and thanks again, and the Sisak and petrin hospitals were badly injured, and some of the patients had to be evacuated urgently. Of course, in this situation when there was a practical struggle for every life, they were unable to complete and fully respect epidemiological measures, so do you have an overview of the medical records of the inhabitants of Sisak-Moslavina County and what does the ministry do to ensure adequate health care for all of our residents?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30417	Thank you very much, the only problem with me is that in one minute I can't even answer your question because the activities are numerous. What's clear from the beginning is direct communication. I was with the prime minister on a minor earthquake and on the second day of a major earthquake and personally led the patient's evacuation. After that, we are in continuous communication with the county health authorities and with the director of the mammal hospital as the most important institution. You must know that at the moment of the second big earthquake, we evacuated over 305 people from that county to Zagreb hospitals, surrounding hospitals, etc. Furthermore, after that, we made a plan and discussions on the care of hospital and SKZZ, meaning specialist and consular examinations across all hospitals in view of the gravity of each part of the county. We've set up phones that cover and emergency services accordingly, we're in constant communication, and what we're landing is, we're working on finding short-term and long-term measures to revitalize the mammal hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30418	Thank you. Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30419	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Minister, can you tell me the assessment of course you won't be able to do exactly what COVID-19 is really costing Croatia? In fact, there is a rare impression that it is either free of charge or that it falls somewhere from the sky, and I am not only interested in the cost of treating patients but also in the price and how much it cost more than a million PCR tests, more than 250 000 rapid antigen tests, what it cost 169 respirators that you ordered by expecting a third wave of epidemics etc. Because I'm sure if not today and then in a few months, you'll start asking why you didn't implement a thorough health reform when hundreds of people were dying on the respirator? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30420	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30421	Thank you, Mr. Academy. So the answer would be next. At this point, the costs are over 2.5 billion, enormous in this situation of filling the state and health budget, I wonder how we did it. However, if we go in line, so far we have invested over 675 million on the treatment of the patient 450 million, on the illness of 115 million, on the purchase of Remdesivir, which was obtained by the European Commission’s public procurement procedure of more than 82 million. I can't communicate with the number of vaccine purchases, it's measured in hundreds of millions of kunas. 500 million kunas like I said about getting medical equipment. They did not include the costs of the infrastructure adjustment of individual Dubrava hospitals, therefore the COVID crisis has cost us enormously much, but I am happy that this government and in these circumstances has found to solve our options and some other problems such as debts to wholesale drugs. You remember the last billion and 800,000 from the budget rebalancing, so extraordinary. [[Breaking President: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30422	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Cellic, here you go. ... Yes, yes, you're not on my list because later on, you haven't been seen, you're welcome, colleagues Vucilović. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30423	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, this epidemic has hit the most vulnerable groups of our society, these are our fellow citizens of the elderly but also our children. Not now about the lack of online teaching, because in one minute there is really no time for it, but about the inability to engage in sports activities. If children from 1st to 4th grade go to school together all the time, I don't see any reason why they can't deal with amateurs, within their clubs, some of them are training, going to regional competitions. This is an extremely big problem for development to find children because we know that sport is extremely important for their psychophysical health, but also for their development, is there any shift in that direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30424	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30425	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. Your question is warranted. When it comes to giving in to measures in the first row, always and everywhere in the world is education in the first place, then sport that we can equate with health therefore precisely in this situation when our incidence in 14 days on the 100,000 inhabitants dropped below 200, we can think about it, I believe that in the package of these measures we will have elements that will be directed in this direction, so the permits of certain sports activities mainly in the open space. However, when it comes to indoor space, we talk about it with epidemiologists from day to day, there are still certain circumstances that contribute to the spread of the virus in each other's contacts, especially when it comes to locker rooms that are nowhere and will certainly not be allowed for some time. Everything that is possible is considered to give way to the type of use of the swimming pool and the wider because chlorine in the water, as well as wet air prevents the spread of the virus We're taking all these circumstances into account. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30426	Now he's a colleague of the Cellics, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30427	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, it is known that people with mental disorders are vulnerabilities. At this time of the covid epidemic, I would say that mental health services have been spontaneously reorganised in terms of offering assistance in the context of telepsychological services, in which a major role has been played by the Croatian Emergency Medical Institute, in addition to psychiatric institutions. This would not be possible without the support of the Ministry of Health, so the psychological consequences for those who have already had some diagnosed mental disorders, and for those who have never had psychological problems are evident, they are on the rise. What I would especially ask you, you have so far shown an understanding of the development of mental health services to continue to strengthen these services and to develop interdisciplinary teams because there is no health without mental health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30428	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30429	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. You have touched an important topic, in this sense I will say thank you, first of all, to all psychiatrists and psychologists who have engaged in a wide-ranging action to provide transport and health care professionals and citizens and now, in a particular case in the area of a catastrophic earthquake. This is of paramount importance, and here we testify that the profession has responded adequately and at the beginning of this threat as you know it, certain call centres have been set up in your institution, so the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, as well as in the KB Dubrava, have been set up to help certain transport elements, as I said, to healthcare professionals and citizens. However, it should also be noted that mental health is of paramount importance and, as criticised by the Ministry of Health for the National Plan, the strategic framework against cancer, so it has been adopted, I can also promise that now the National Development Strategy of Mental Health at the final stage of its inter-resorial coordination, I also believe that it will soon see the light of day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30430	Thank you. Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30431	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We've been listening a lot these past year that the health system hasn't been prepared to fight the coronary virus, which absolutely doesn't stand. As a shareholder of that time, I also remember your arrival in Osijek when in KBC they were immediately formed as regional covid centres, then secondary, and then after that I think we didn't go on time or that the ministry didn't start in time with the preparation of the hospital system to have figures that had some countries in an environment that were much and more healthy and economically developed than what the Republic of Croatia was.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30432	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30433	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. Look, from day one we wanted to be proactive, I was lucky or unfortunate that I became a minister 10 days before the threat became acute, we learned from the mistakes of others, mainly China, Italy, we reorganized the health system even though it was large and in some way trom, it showed the possibility of flexibility. You remember that coming to Osijek and helping your employees establish an adequate response to covid. However, I must also say that it is more than clear that we were prepared immediately. Look at Arena, look at Dubrava, some are calling that we weren't in the second wave in the fall ready. Dubrava was still launched in the spring, taken care of by covid positive patients and just adapted to the purpose of the primary intensive respiratory centre. Also now in the fall, we activated the Arena when needed, it was empty for a while, so it was activated, fortunately we didn't have many patients. So what's constant we've been trying to be a step ahead of this virus and that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30434	Thank you. Let's move on, Comrade Habian, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30435	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, here in the past 2 months in 3 times we have discussed this topic, so the subject of covids is through amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, then on the basis of a proposal for the conclusion of the representatives of MOST, and on the basis of that interpretation. Through all of these discussions, MPs on my right, or from the opposition, pointed out that the health system will not withstand the inflow of patients suffering from Covid-19 disease, as the Republic of Croatia has not prepared in a good way, that we do not have enough respirators. Some of the opposition MPs here, for example, pointed to Germany and other countries as a positive example of the fight against the pandemic. Today, with a month away, we are witnessing that the health system was best prepared to fight the coronary virus, how the Republic of Croatia had and has enough respirators if I am not wrong in the biggest... Some 298 respirators have been taken. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In recent days, the figures are much better, we have the largest decline of the newly infected in Europe while the figures in countries like Germany are listed here as a positive example, unfortunately. in a solid lockdown very, very high [[Intruder: Thank you]] and BiH example [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] It says there are 11,000 active cases at this point. [[Intruder: Thank you very much fellow Habian]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30436	Comrade Habib, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30437	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, thank you for asking. What's the fact that I don't know what's waiting for us, I don't know what's going to bring new viruses, new development of the epidemic, but so far I can responsibly argue that as a health system, we've responded well to all the threats, it wasn't easy, it wasn't easy, we've distributed respirators and on a daily basis, everyone knows that. So we tried to answer in the best possible way. As far as I'm aware, no one at this time, no matter what a significant number of patients were left behind to provide some medical services, even though in the second wave we were much better than the first time responding to other medical needs, so we took care of other patients. One example is the establishment of a call center at the Ministry of Health for those patients, mainly oncologically, and ultimately all who had appointments in Dubrava. Therefore, even now, we try to do what is necessary to adapt the health system to new circumstances. And for Germany, I have no comment, so that can happen to us tomorrow. Now, but that's the way it is. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30438	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30439	Dear Ministers, it is therefore absolutely clear and unquestionable that the measures we have taken have produced results and allowed us to have in these crisis situations a sufficient number of all health facilities, including respirators, however, my question, you know that the Varazdin County was one of the most exposed and in this sense, in the pandemic, a Varazdin hospital, as a regional hospital was under special pressure. At one point we also had 278 people with a heavy clinical picture and proportionally in this regard we were more burdened than KB Dubrava as Covid Hospital so it is my question when the Varazdin hospital will be recognised Covid status, Covid Hospital, it is extremely important because of employees who receive 10% salary allowance. You know what employees at the Varazdin hospital who, as I say, were under the strongest blow, lived through it, witnessed it many times, lived through it today, so my question is when will it be settled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30440	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30441	Thank you very much. Now, not to say anything, I signed it yesterday, but I did these days, so I'm asking you to confirm that the next time we meet, that is, the decision was signed to declare the General Hospital in Varazdin for the period that Covid-19 was working with the hospital and I thank all the county health authorities, the directorship, the hospital leadership for giving an adequate answer at that time. I remember when I was there personally, when we talked about the need to introduce oxygen, when we talked to the Minister of Defence, and we delivered tents, when we talked about moving patients to Novi Marof, when we talked about hiring a Tertiary Centre nearby, all of these were activities we had together, and we sort of responded to these challenges. However, you said at the beginning that the measures were good and that they were giving results, yes, at this point, however, that is not enough. We are now in the phase of considering further steps precisely with the goal, that if possible, we will allow the next tourist season. So that's what we're focused on. And we're looking at a bit of a broader context. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30442	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30443	Good afternoon. Minister, we know that healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, technicians bear a huge burden of Covid crisis on their backs, and we know that in other countries their wages are significantly increased because of that. They did not receive any significant compensation, as we know, so that they could not be granted a dual-term internship, i.e. a benefited work experience, because these are truly extraordinary occasions that remind wartime opportunities, and we know that they are therefore in war conditions from 1991 to '95. have been recognised for years as a dual-term insurance internship, couldn't we at least provide that for our healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30444	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30445	Thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. Parliamentary MPs, if you think we haven't considered that possibility, so the recognition of a greater internship, as was once possible, we've been thinking. But under the current Labour Act, it's not that simple. I'm not saying and I'm not saying that if this crisis lasts longer, we won't think about amending the law to make it possible, but you have to know three things. First, I am extremely grateful to all health care professionals and health care professionals who work in hospitals, in exceptional efforts, such as the 2nd, that the salaries in the term of this government have grown significantly in the health care system and 3rd, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given a special reward to healthcare workers who provide health care to the patients of Covid a special 10% reward on the basic salary that depends on the labour coefficient. Some consider it unfair, however, I think it is fair, especially if they consider that not only health but also health professionals are afforded the same and that they are given the possibility of compensation Unless it's enough for them, compared to the three-month earlier salary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30446	Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30447	Dear Ministers, the Croatian public deserves to know that the contracts are signed with pharmaceutical companies and that we are exposed to a kind of racket. This is now seen in the lack of vaccines that have been delivered, and in the future, according to your report, it will be seen in excess because we are forced to obtain super plus doses of vaccine. What Croatia does at EU level to make these contracts more transparent and second issue. Do you think the EU is naive and does not deal with its strategic interests when it obtains respirators and Remdesivir through the procurement process? If you don't think that's the case, will you personally argue that the final procedure for the procurement of medical equipment for the purposes of this crisis is to return to public procurement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30448	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30449	Thank you very much for those questions. Look, we as a small country with 4 million inhabitants couldn't think for ourselves that we would have that power to negotiate with the largest pharmaceutical companies that produce drugs. The EU Commission did so for all 27 EU committee members at a time when it was not even known yet, as I said when they will produce the vaccine. I think it was the only way and Croatia, I must admit, is that there is almost no other option than to get the vaccine along the way, that way. If the contracts are found in the notes, I really don't know, the EU Commission's legal service has set them up as such, we've got them for evaluation, we've seen that this is our only option to get the vaccine, and now we're where we are. When it comes to top-up doses and super-top-up doses, all happiness is such a possibility because it allows for increased doses from those who have managed to produce the vaccine. You can see for yourself that at first we were directed towards the AstraZenec who failed. etc., etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30450	My colleague Murganic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30451	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, this pandemic of Covid-19 has been going on for over a year now, and the health system has not broken as we feared, as predicted, but has already responded to the care of these patients by reorganising hospitals, medical staff, the purchase of equipment, and so did the respirator. However, my question concerns the following. How and how did we care for our citizens who suffer from some other illnesses and other diagnosiss?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30453	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. This is an extremely important issue because life has not stopped, there has been an epidemic of the Covid-19 pandemic, but all other citizens with other health needs have not ceased to exist. So I said this today, and we learned something from our response in the first wave, although even then we insisted through the presses of civil protection headquarters that continued health care must be provided to emergency, priority and cancer patients. We mainly thought about it in the second wave, and so after Dubrava closed, we established this call center that solved over a few thousand questions about patients for ordering in other hospitals, all of this was positively resolved. But this very formation of primarily intense prices, so the covid centres made it possible for other healthcare institutions to deal with other citizens more or less, so I think that concept has allowed us not to neglect other health needs. There's no more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30454	Here you go, fellow Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30455	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, this is a pandemic that even the greatest medical authority has no answer and the question is when will it go? Thank you and the headquarters for balancing these measures that have now yielded results. If you remember at the 11th month when we were worse, then the opposition asked every single one of its questions we asked in Europe, and we're the worst in Europe, and now that we're among the best, I haven't heard that someone commended you. My question is about teaching in schools. Here are the students from the fifth to eighth grade, how long it takes to determine that students are not carriers of infectious diseases and to start teaching in high schools, given that it has been a year and that it is extremely difficult, difficult to have online classes? And my second question is given the problem of the vaccine that has come up, are you considering getting vaccines from some other suppliers to split up a large number of people? And that summer season would be okay? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30456	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30457	... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30458	Please hold. Excuse me, Minister. It's got a lot and it took a long time yesterday, and today it's going to take a long time, so let's stick to it for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30459	Thank you for asking. So, while it is a nice sense of praise for them we do not work, we are working to establish a defence system for Croatian citizens and to protect health, it is our basic activity. When it comes to students, it always takes 2 to 3 weeks after they start teaching to look at the epidemiological effect of them, whether they can be sick or transmitted, more importantly, to infect their parents, grandparents, etc., so they are always 2 to 3 weeks and just the epidemiological profession said that since 18.1. teaching is introduced for students from 1st to 4th grade that they have to go through these 2 to 3 weeks to see the effect that is of exceptional importance because each measure is evaluated in their negative and positive effects over and over again. When it comes to the vaccine, there's little time left for me, we don't have much chance of focusing on other manufacturers because their vaccines haven't passed. EMA regulatory procedure and basic [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30460	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30461	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Ministers, you and I and I all had a chance to see when the snowing theme fell, people who came out on snow and really what they were, I have to say I understand them, on the other hand I'm not sure that all those lines were the smartest and those pictures that were the smartest. My question is again about sports. I've been asking you this question for the third time. It's about outdoor sport, it's about sailing, it's about children who are in primary school who, when it comes to sailing do not use lockers, only sailing is done on, so whether the lake or the sea, went to the local headquarters, the local headquarters responded every time that they had to get approval from the national headquarters, and there was a circle. I'm sure it's not good, please think about it, think about it, so it's not about top athletes, it's about kids. elementary and high school. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30462	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30463	Thank you very much. Therefore, you can be sure that the Minister of RES is constantly discussing it, as well as the Secretary of State for Sport in cooperation with the epidemiological profession, on a daily basis, lays down criteria for continuing to carry out sports activities. Since we are witnessing today and these days the number of newly infected is dropping, so this 14-day incidence of 100,000 inhabitants has fallen below 300, today it's below 200, absolutely allowing us to think differently about outdoor sports. I believe that a new package of measures that will take effect after 1 February of this year will liberalise something. However, please believe that every day at the level of the Secretary of State for Sports who knows best all the elements of sports for a number of specific sports are held talks with the epidemiological profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30464	My colleagues, Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30465	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, when we discussed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Publicity against Infectious Diseases by the opposition, we heard countless times how the proposed measures represent most of the human rights violations. However, we now see from this report that this is not the case, and then we from HDZ, the HDZ Club, claimed that there will be no human rights violations. The report itself shows that there were not too many infringers of the measures themselves. Of course, the measures were taken by analysing the situation day by day, then the opposition said the measures are being taken in a verse and we're hitting on them with a shovel, now we see that that's not the case. When you analyze backwards would you do something in the system of taking measures and analysis now differently or do you think we've chosen a good path? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30466	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30467	Thank you for asking. Therefore, all measures were exclusively aimed at protecting health. Health protection was the primary objective of all our measures, and I think they were both proportionate and proportionate and they were not acting on anyone's constitutional rights. Yes, these measures taken after a number of analyses of the daily epidemiological, mainly epidemiological situation, can only say, for example, that already mentioned traffic lights. As you can see, it is not mentioned at all today because already at that time our epidemiologists recognized that other than the number of newly infected, the number of hospitalized, the number of people on the respirator and the number of deaths, there are also a number of other elements that we have been respecting and perceiving from day to day even though there have been no new variants of the virus that further complicate the situation. And so this is a series of specific circumstances, the type of time when certain measures are taken, the type of mobility of citizens, you see that it wasn't anyway, that mobility decreased during the annual holidays or the fact that children didn't go to school So a series of elements. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30468	Col. Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30469	Thank you, Your Honor, President of the Parliament. Dear Minister Beroš, last Friday, I sent a proposal to the Government asking all the entrepreneurs you have closed to be released from paying VAT and all non-taxable payments for as long as they lasted lockdown. I believe it is at least at the moment what the state can do for Croatian entrepreneurs, in order to make business easier for them again after the measures have been omitted. My question is, did the government at that meeting even discuss this proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30470	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30471	Thank you for asking. We are discussing a wide range of issues, there have been speeches and this, and you will understand that I, as a health minister and a neurosurgeon, cannot speak relevantly about economic issues, but you have given me the opportunity to illustrate what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done since March. Therefore, measures to support employment or retain jobs have so far been paid over 8.25 billion, including the fact that no particular contribution has been paid, the sum is raised to 12 billion. Furthermore, we have given the possibility to shorten working hours with participation in workers' salaries. So this measure was used by 600,000 workers or 100,000 employers, and I think the government has done a lot from an economic point of view in the circumstances of filling the state budget that exists. Then there are the loans of a certain so-called so-called. COVID loans offered to certain business entities, that is to compensate fixed costs and a number of elements that are not in my jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30472	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome colleague Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30473	Art. 238. Dear Minister Beroš, all these incentives you've listed are for the preservation of jobs. These jobs will not be welcomed by these workers because employers...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30474	Comrade litre, where did the Rules of Procedure get hurt? ... Where's the injured Rules of Procedure, please? ... [[Intruder Milanović litre, not understood.]] colleague Milanović litre, stop. ... [[Intruder Milanović litre, not understood.]] You're getting your first warning. [[Intruder Milanović litre, not understood.]] You're getting a second warning, and I'm asking you no longer to do this. Inappropriately, completely unnecessary and I don't understand why you're doing this at all, you've received two warnings. Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, as we could hear from your report that the most endangered group of our citizens is the oldest population that is almost yet to be closed by nursing homes for a year and can't even get visits, are alienated from their families, please tell me, why did public vaccination of parliamentary representatives, ministers at the first dose we received, which was in very small quantities? Why didn't you split at least one nursing home and not publicly in front of the cameras with these doses, it actually looks like a very bad message for people who look at us from closed rooms where we get parliamentary representatives, and I'm glad that the Homeland Movement, the whole club, that no one has been vaccinated, but I see that other colleagues have been vaccinated and the government has been vaccinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30476	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30477	Thank you very much, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. Your question is only partly justified because if you followed closely the polls on how much the citizens of the Republic of Croatia want to be vaccinated a few months back, then you would listen and read negative data, however, just after the vaccination campaign and the fact that the vaccinated part of the ministers and parliamentary deputies has increased. We're looking for more vaccine today. So this 100-thin or maybe less dose, I think it's irrelevant to the total number of these because the fact that most of the home users have already been vaccinated. So, you always have pro and counter elements for some procedure, we've estimated that at this point this promotional process is more important. In addition, you are the top of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia, I recently said in the media last week that last week there was a law on noise that is very important and that there is no you, that you understand, means there are certain reasons why in the world politicians not wider, but executive power, [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Legislative, judgmental, I don't think that's... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30478	Thank you very much. Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30479	I thank you, President of the Parliament. Your Honor, my question is heading in the direction of why doesn't the national headquarters allow regional headquarters to impose more mild measures on their own? I'm taking the opportunity to thank the Istrian headquarters who is doing very well their job, I hope you agree with me, the Istrian County is in an orange zone by the number of corona infected with the virus, and I think regional access is a fairer approach because regional headquarters know the situation on the ground best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30480	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30481	Thank you, I would not only thank the Istrian headquarters but all the county headquarters for doing great things, as well as of course county. Our communication is daily, and it's no problem at all. Simply from the beginning, since certain counties have differed the epidemiological situation, we have agreed in some way that county headquarters have the opportunity to recommend and look for stronger measures, meaning the closure measures, but we haven't arrived yet, and we haven't been in a lot of times in fact, except for the time before summer to relax too much, but otherwise the process of relaxation is of exceptional importance and it's more important in some way than the process of adding measures because it's quite clear that we all want to stop the spread of this infection. So, I think all county headquarters have done a good job so far, so we'll continue in continuous and constant communication, none of us are an island. And we're all tied to each other. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30482	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30483	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, in accordance with the plan for the introduction of a vaccination against Covid-19, it has been found that the most endangered persons are over 50 g. with a significantly increased risk of those older than 70 g. However, the protégé of deprived business ability in the homes of social care is the most endangered group due to its generally impaired general condition, and the possibility of vaccination has been greatly impaired since the Ministry of Social Policy, or the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy has ordered all centres to carry out administrative procedures in order to give consent to the custodian vaccination of the protégé, which was not, for example, in the case of vaccination regularly against influenza. So adults' homes will wait up to one year until solutions and consent are obtained, so my question is why did you allow a delay in vaccination of the most endangered groups? an unnecessary administration? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30484	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30485	Thank you very much. I'm just going to tell you that at this point the user of services was vaccinated in homes 31.813, that we put them in the top priority. The administrative obstacle, which is therefore a solution and consensus, is absolutely unknown to me why and how, but I know that we discussed it in the government, Labour Minister Aladrovic is aware of this and I think he said the solution will be accelerated. It's about an administrative procedure that I really don't know about, I'm not a legal expert, whether there was any way to escape. In any case, what you yourself have said through the plan of introducing, implementing and controlling vaccinations has been detected that home service users are priority services and that as a healthcare professional, I am absolutely not running away. And this is an administrative problem, what I can answer you to discuss and we can inform you about the way and the speed of its resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30486	My colleagues, Glamuzina, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30487	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Minister, as a consequence of such a large number of people infected, as a consequence, we have the fact that we all know at least one person if not more than one person who was infected by themselves or we ourselves and some of us were infected by the virus, so we have some personal experience of not ideal system functioning. That's what I'm asking you about this part of the report on isolation and monitoring of contacts. I personally had in a wider family a case of covid virus infection where this person after having received a test report contrary to what the report said was no one contacted, no epidemiologist, no doctor of general practice, no one, to guide her into isolation, to ask her who her close contacts were, who should be followed further, it was after 19 November when it says here that the call center was established. I've been curious since then, is this situation better or is he able to trace all the contacts?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30488	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30489	Thank you very much for asking. Look, it was founded at a time when the number of patients was over 4,000 a day and unfortunately then the epidemiological service could not monitor all contact. However, we were also at our disposal as doctors of family medicine who might have heard from him. I absolutely, nothing is optimal, and don't think that I'm defending now, there have been cases and I personally witness that at one point monitoring contacts as a very relevant and valuable epidemiological measure has gone up precisely because of the number of newly ill and due to the amount of epidemiologists and their number, regardless of what we have authorized employment and young doctors to work under the supervision of both sanitary engineers and therefore many other employees. However, the fact is that when someone gets a find on whether it is a test to be expected to contact their doctor and ask what and how. Of course everyone can't do that and I absolutely don't ask for an excuse, but I said it wasn't all optimal, the system tried to react in the best possible way at a given time. Now the situation is much, much, much better for a simple reason Which is a lot less of the newly infected. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30490	Comrades of Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30491	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, you mentioned the tourist season. Tourism 2020 She was more successful than expected, one of the best in the Mediterranean. In the spring of last year, we said it would be a success if we could reach 30% of the night and arrival, but July and August were at 62% of the night 2019. which was a record. We made over 54 million overnight stays in 2020. However, the financial results were not so good, they were significantly lower and therefore the support of the state also came in the preservation of jobs and favourable liquidity loans were provided, some fixed costs were covered and so on. I would like to appeal to you and support this message from the Croatian Tourism Association that just yesterday announced, given that tourism is a strategic activity and represents a significant share of Croatia's GDP That we have to keep [[Intruder: Thank you]] favourable trends as a prerequisite for a new tourist season. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30492	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30493	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. You have now touched again the topic that has already been mentioned here twice, and this is the future tourist season, we are already considering it. However, I would also like to say at this point that the measures are solely due to such a good season last year. Yes, we tended to, we did everything we could to make it so. However, the emergence of a new strain of virus variants and other circumstances may significantly change that. So we had a good tourist season because several factors were somehow realized, including our thinking. I also say to you that we have already started the groundbreaking talks for next season. That's what I can tell you. You can also note that during the season itself, we have fought for its extension by emphasis and by the question that some foreign countries are experiencing us in regions, so by regional approach, not by overall approach, because then the figures at the level of the Republic of Croatia were not good, and let's say the figures in Istria County, PGZ, Northern Dalmatia, except Zadar They were good, so those are the elements. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30494	Thank you. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30495	Dear Minister, I am extremely sorry when someone who manages the system and makes decisions sees that they make the wrong decisions and doesn't change them. What is the problem with our government decision-making system is, in fact, that no one alive knows why they're making them and what are the consequences of those decisions. You have been warned several times by the opposition and by the media that it would be good to make some criteria on the basis of which decisions are made or if there are so many infected, then we close that down and see what happens. You also said several times that you had a vaccination plan, only no one saw it. I think it would be, don't be angry, I haven't been able to find him, I've Googled several times what the vaccination plan in the Republic of Croatia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30496	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30497	So, thank you very much, Mr. Assembly Attorney. So we know why and how we take measures and what the criteria are, they are strictly professional epidemiological. So we spoke for the last time, and I think you resisted that traffic light, and here I explained to you today that this traffic light absolutely doesn't get the wish of success, and it's not enough. He's one piece of information but not complete. Furthermore, then you praised Germany, now I ask you, what are the criteria in Germany at the moment that it has such an epidemiological picture? It's all a problem... Now it's a problem that's extremely important... [[/Intruder Brumnic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30498	Comrade Brumnic, you are being warned. First of all, it is no better than Croatia and secondly, because you are in the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30499	And secondly, the fact that you're talking about the plan, I think it's irrelevant, the plan exists, it's been published, it's been adopted, it's publicly available, and I don't know why you're talking about this problem right now, is there a problem with the plan itself? He's adopted, adopted, present, public, clear, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30500	Here you go, now it's Comrade Tomašević's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30501	I don't agree with your answer about traffic lights and that conclusion, we've still been on the agenda since the beginning of November when we asked for it, with some numbers I even went public but well, obviously you're still resisting that strategy. What I'm interested in is what are the measures to be taken to reduce recreation especially for children and young people, especially sports that are not in any closed space? On the other hand, this illogicality that restaurants that used to work mostly means on food now selling drinks and bars and cafes that sold drinks, they can't do that in terms of coffee to go. So I don't see how it would be fair or see an epidemiological logic behind it, that someone who's sold drinks so far can't sell outside their facility and someone who isn't, who wasn't at all a job, but who's mostly preparing food right now can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30502	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30503	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, it is absolutely unquestionably unquestionable that the issue of drinks for the outside is not epidemiologically problematic when it is over. However, our citizens who show from day to day do not follow the measure, so they take a drink to continue hanging out at some tables or places around the place where they bought drinks. Epidemiologists believe that this is completely, completely wrong and contributes to the spread of the infection in a significantly larger number than is possible. The fact that, in part, I would agree with you that coffee is sold in both gas stations and in bakerys, there is, but there has been some abuse because bakerys primarily operate for the sale of bread, gas stations primarily sell, exist for the sale of gasoline. Someone can take coffee to go, but what is unfavourable and epidemiologically unacceptable is socializing after that because most people unfortunately don't take coffee to drink it alone but because of certain socializing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30504	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Grba Bujević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30505	Your Honor, Mr. President, Minister. The economic crisis caused by the coronary virus as a health crisis is, in fact, unique in current economic history in the manner and speed of creation, global coverage and the result. I'm aware that's not exactly a question of your jurisdiction, but I was encouraged by a colleague who just asked a question. I'm curious to know what the government of the Republic of Croatia has done through inter-resorial cooperation in order to reduce the impact of the economic crisis on our citizens in this health crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30506	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30507	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. So in answer to your question, I can only repeat that indeed the economic portfolio in the government has worked hard and that we have been thinking together to reach certain measures and these are the main measures to preserve jobs because, as you know, according to the pension insurance data, there are less than 8900 insurance companies as far away as possible, far away from those estimated 400,000 layoffs, etc. Therefore, these measures compensate 4000 kn for employees if the decline in income below 40% has yielded its results. As I said, including contributions, the total measure cost the Croatian state 12 billion, about 12 billion kuna. Not only that, but as we said these COVID loans, further covering certain fixed costs and what the Government is within its capabilities. That we need to talk about everything further, because the question is how long this crisis will take, I hope thanks to our measures and our citizens' responsibilities as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30508	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30509	Thank you. Dear Minister, you surprised me with one today's response, you said the situation in BiH was good because they probably used the summer to figure out the population, allow the spread of the infection as if you wanted to say it might be a better strategy to fight this virus. So I ask the question, are we sure that this firm approach, lockdown that's results? Does a reduction in the number of infected have anything to do with these stricter measures? And are we considering the mental state of the nation? Are we thinking about our economy? Are we even thinking about whether the gyms should have been closed, whether it was necessary to enable the work of at least a terrace, means that some of the MPs here have asked in the debate and when we're actually going to do it this way? Fighting the Coronal Virus? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30510	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30511	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. Well, I'd tell you to start by answering this last question, we'll fight as hard as we can and we'll wash as long as there's a virus around us. Furthermore, to your findings on measures in the Republic of Croatia, I would remind you that they are among the more liberals in Europe, no talk about lockdown, no talk about the curfew we are now witnessing in many European countries. Therefore, Croatia sought to balance the measures there. As for the very philosophy of the epidemiological foundation of the spread of the virus, it is clear that the reduction of contact contributes to the reduction of virus spread and there are not too many doubts. We have sought to adapt these measures to the circumstances of preventing the spread of the disease in terms of the preservation of health. It also enables as many economic activities as possible. We've been looking all the time for one balance, and as you can see, we weren't too restrictive, our measures are more liberal, and only history will show what and how it could have been at a given time. However, the pollination of a particular population is one of the factors that affects the spread of the disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30512	Thank you. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30513	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Mr. Minister, a year ago no one could have predicted an epidemic like this. The government's reaction to Prime Minister Plenkovic and you as resolute minister, as well as to the minister of internal affairs as head of the civil protection headquarters, reacted responsibly, effectively to the appearance of this unsustainable and unpredictable threat. Today they are and we see and we witness the effects and all the timely and activities that you have spent in the health system that you have been effective, that you have done all by mobilising and organising a health system that functions immaculately today. I thank you for all the activities you've been through, one of the difficult patients I've experienced in this system. Today we see that the system is being upgraded [[Intruder: Thank you]] to be equipment with new PCR devices [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Djakić]] Well, so it was yesterday at... [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Djakić]] County open... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30514	Comrade Djakic, thank you very much. Well, we've got a minute, if you want, we'll change the Rules of Procedure, so it'll be a minute and 10. I have to keep order here and please hold on for a minute. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30515	Thank you very much for your question. Well, as a government minister and a resolution minister, we did nothing but really do our job. We are here to serve Croatian citizens and in the context of our opportunities and knowledge we have done everything to preserve the health and lives of Croatian citizens. For now we're standing very well, I hope that's the way it's going to be in the future. And when it comes to testing, you must witness the willingness of our health system to react properly. We've already had a... PCR score and test shortly after being in Berlin he was even founded as such. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we have indeed done everything possible to respond in an appropriate way. Since when you mentioned PCR devices to date, 60 places have been trained for PCR analysis, pardon 30, 60 places for rapid antigen testing, we have tested more than 1.100,000 Croatian citizens with PCR, over 65,000 rapid antigen tests, but I see in the future that they will in some way Take the primate. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30516	Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30517	Dear Minister, as we can see from the exposure and from the public, this infectious disease, which for a few people is deadly, has its own trends, and in recent times, thank God, it's becoming less and less dangerous even though you're scaring us with some new strain, which I think is absurdly this one that I'm not saying that it's as if we know that car accidents are happening, so we're going to end traffic, but let it aside. What's important is that practice shows us that this crown is what it is, that it's not so dangerous, that in Petrinja after the earthquake it shows us, and still disproportionately holding repressive measures, there's no reason to hold it, you're doing huge damage financially to our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30518	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30519	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentarian. I would like to live in that world where this virus is less dangerous today and that it no longer causes a severe clinical picture, but it is not on this earth. Today it is as dangerous as before, in some countries it carries lives with greater strength and speed than before, and I will tell you of two, in Croatia because of the measures and responsibilities of Croatian citizens it is not so. And what happens if this B117 strain comes from the UK that is present in 45 countries and which in 13 countries including our neighborhood is already spreading through the surrounding transmission? What happens if this B1351 strain from South Africa spreads even faster? ... And we must be prepared for responsibility to our... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30520	Comrade Sacic, my colleague, I'm sorry. Don't yell from the scene. You'll probably have this virus come then you'll ask the minister, and why the measures aren't more rigorous, as we witness from day to day that today those who advocate liberal measures tomorrow will be for rigorous measures and will transfer as a ping-pong ball responsibility to the government, but that doesn't matter, don't yell out of place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30521	So this South African already exists in 11 countries, and it's spreading even faster than England, and it's also in two countries that are in our neighborhood, all of which makes us watchful. I think as Minister of Health and I think as Government of the Republic of Croatia We must be prepared for these challenges. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30522	Thank you very much. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30523	Minister Beroš, I will refer to the comment sent by your party colleague, Mr Reiner, on the non-implementation of any reform of non-settling health problems that existed before the crown, and the fact is that dealing with this pandemic will serve you as an excuse for not solving the problems that the HDZ government has accumulated in this and all of its past mandates. And speaking of excuses and this report on the effects of implementing the measure is actually just an excuse, and it doesn't contain what this report should have. I'm talking about the fiscal consequences of dealing with the coronaryvirus, you said the total cost is 2.5 billion kuna, but nowhere is the report structured which part of these costs is paid by funds from the Republic of Croatia, and the amount we received from EU funds. I would ask you to make a review report in future reports and a table that can be controlled and verified, of this kind of information. We're no use. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30524	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30525	Thank you very much, ma'am. Parliamentarians. First of all, I will tell you that even today, reading the Report, I have cited the amount financed from EU funds for protective equipment, and then the rest is coming from the state budget. However, there is no problem, everything we do is very transparent and to the benefit of the Croatian people. And for this, the first part of your question, I want to ask you, do you have any crystal ball from which I read that I'm going to ask for an excuse? I'm not going to ask for an excuse, I will, to you all, to HS, and mostly to Croatian citizens, I will account for my actions and you can be sure that I will never use the Covid crisis as an excuse for that. And that's how it exists... healthcare already established and forward-looking, starting with the Immunological Institute, starting with an emergency helicopter medical service, to some reform steps in terms of maintaining the financial stability of health systems and many others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I believe in the future we'll have a chance to talk about it. I'll say it like this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I don't accept an apology. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30526	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30527	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, you spoke in your report about, of course, the vaccination priorities and we all agreed that these were vulnerable groups, but somehow you said, did it happen, quote, circumstances that we couldn't influence, and somehow defetistically, we're here where we are. Now, my question is if, of course, we know how medicines have been supplied for all the members, all the EU countries, my question is that regardless of the EMA, if we really have some autonomy around, in our health institutions, I would ask you what your attitude is about all the vaccines because we already have some other vaccines and whether we have studies on the e.g. Sinopharma and Sputnik vaccines?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30528	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30529	Thank you so much for asking. I think it is of paramount importance and I think Croatian citizens need to know how things are, so that, there is a plan, it is founded, but also, because of objective circumstances, there has been a disturbance and I think it is very unfair and it is not in accordance with any law because in the contract with Pfizer it writes what and how. But I'll tell you what it's really about. So Pfizer committed 25.1., 1.2., 8.2., 15.2. to supply certain amounts of vaccine. So 25.1. “ The Ones ” and “the Ones ” — The Ones, the Ones, the Ones, the Ones, the Ones, the Ones, the Ones, the Ones, the Ones, the Ones, the The dose is now reduced so that 25.1. we have, we got 10 boxes, that's 44% less, 1.2. 16, that's 16% less, 8.2. 16 out of 19, that's 16% less, so we only received 15% of the vaccine less, but at a bad time, when we need to inject. However, it is fortunate that vaccination is possible from day 21 to day 42, so we may be able to vaccinate. As for this other one, I wish we could turn around. According to Russia and China, however, their vaccines have not passed clinical trials, only Phase 1 and Phase 2, it is insecure for Croatian citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] When It's Safer We'll certainly discuss it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30530	No, no, this was important to the public, so I let you say it. I thank you Minister, we've come to an end with replicas so you can return to your post. All I'm asking is that we clear the pay phone, and before I open the debate, do the representatives of the board want to take a word? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ esteemed colleague Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30531	Mr. President-in-Office of the HS, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of the Assembly. Let me speak, not only as a representative of the HDZ, but primarily as a doctor who is in the hospital every day. And today I have been and every so many people are being examined by some patients who are then found sick by Covid-19, some of my closest associates are suffering from this disease, both doctors and sisters, and I guess so far dear God has saved me and I hope I won't even get sick, at least not before I get another dose of the vaccine. The emergence of a new SARS-COV-2 virus and caused by the Covid-19 pandemic also pose a significant risk for Croatia, and it required urgent preparation and response of the state's health and their systems. It was necessary to reduce the possibility of transmission of the virus to the least sustainable measure, reduce the burden on the health system and reduce mortality while trying to maintain the economy, businesses and employment, even in a significantly reduced form. Croatia has certainly succeeded in this. It was also important to have regular and detailed communication with the public, for which I thank again the members of the National Staff. The members of this Staff have borne a huge burden, and as it rarely happens in us, they were at the beginning when we were the best in Europe, elevated and magnificent, and then again attacked, accused, belittled, insulted, that now that we are among the best in Europe, we are largely crossed, as if it were the merit of someone else, and they have nothing to do with it. But that's what our opposition is, about their credibility talking about and the quotes I mentioned in my apartment, some of them, I stress, some of our media, but not citizens who really appreciate everything the Staff has done. But let's stick to the facts. The Republic of Croatia was very early in planning, followed by the implementation of epidemiological and other measures aimed at suppressing and spreading the infection. Before the first reported case in Croatia on 25 February of last year, and amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases were found and the most effective legislative model for managing the global pandemic crisis and local epidemic. All the measures adopted by the National Staff respected two principles, efficiency and proportionality and strictly met the needs of the given moment, which was confirmed by the Constitutional Court when 35 MPs and representatives of the opposition unsuccessfully tried to challenge the request to initiate the procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Health protection activities have been implemented adequately, balanced and timelyly respecting the condition of guaranteed freedom and the rights of citizens under emerging circumstances. Croatia, like all other countries, had two wave of epidemics, the first in the spring and early of last summer, marked strict epidemiological measures with the closure of many places and places of gathering of citizens, and the restriction of movement and the very effective suppression of the epidemic. In the first wave, we were among the most successful in Europe in terms of curbing the epidemic, the number of patients and, in particular, the number of deaths and the preservation of jobs. The tourist season was far better than anyone had hoped. The second wave around the world was marked by a much worse picture, a larger number of infected, hospitalized and unfortunately deceased. Despite the existence of epidemiological measures, the cause of the second wave or autumn war of the newly ill was also expected in Croatia because the infectious disease COVID-18 as well as other respiratory infections, the incidence of virus prevalence in the population was higher during the autumn and winter than during the summer. The reason for this is that the more frequent stay and gathering of persons in a closed area, the inability to keep them in constant air, etc., but the national headquarters, the ministry and the HZJZ have followed the situation very carefully and have taken new measures to bypass the full lockdown or even the curfew, measures that are in place in many EU countries and in fact, we are witnessing that they are further tightening. A significant part of the economy thus managed to continue its business in us. As we can see, the current epidemiological situation is encouraging since the downward trend of newly infected coronarys is continuing, now the 14-day average is below 200 to 100,000 inhabitants, reducing the number of most severe patients on the respirator, especially the last two to three weeks. Two weeks ago, our number of hospitalized below 2000 decreased, and we recorded the largest two weeks of newly infected in the EU. If we remember on November 27th last year when the gatherings were limited two weeks after the effects were usually seen, there was a significant reduction in these figures. This indicates that we have hit a moment's intensity of measures but we must not ignore and increase citizens' responsibilities and their growing adherence to the prescribed measures for which we must thank them. All of this has resulted in a positive trend that continues. The lower incidence of us in the EU is only 6 countries and when it comes to mortality, we are in the EU's 20th place. If we look at other EU countries that are going towards a significant tightening of measures, our achievement will be greater. The drop in epidemiological measures is something to be discussed, thinking about anything that can possibly be corrected but not realistically expect great discounts in the next period, and that would not be good. New strains of mutated viruses from the one from Great Britain and JAR to the one from Brazil have also been reported in our immediate neighborhood. It wouldn't be realistic to expect that these mutated viruses wouldn't show up in us. At the end of last year, the world also welcomed a vaccine against the coronary virus. In the history of medicine, vaccination has proved to be the most effective public-health measure that in itself has contributed most to the extension of the life of the population and, even in the prevention of this epidemic, the role of vaccination will be irreplaceable. A accessible, safe and effective vaccine will play a central role in saving lives, protecting the health system and restoring the economy, normalising the functioning of education, culture, sports, spiritual life and social interactions between people. These days we received unfortunately with great surprise information that pharmaceutical companies will not respect agreed vaccine quotas. We have to insist on agreements that have been made with pharmaceutical companies. At a meeting of the European Council, Prime Minister Plenkovic asked the European Commission's other prime ministers to insist on the agreed quantity and dynamics of vaccine delivery in talks with Pfizer, Moderna and Astra Zenec to split the population as soon as possible. We must insist that more vaccines do not get those countries that can and want to pay more than agreed because it would be extremely immoral and illegal. We need to get the quantities we agreed on in advance and we have agreed enough vaccines to literally divide the population of Croatia for free. A catastrophic earthquake that hit Sisak-Moslavina County on 29 December last year and earthquakes that continued and continued daily in Central Croatia affected the vaccination plan against COVID-19. Croatia has requested other EU Member States to redistribute their doses of vaccines as soon as possible to 200 000 doses. All the data in this report that you have received, up to the details clearly state that Croatia is not as harmless as some today, unfortunately here in this house, trying to represent it out of ignorance, I believe and not out of evil, and I believe that this report will all be accepted unanimously, because in this case we need more than ever to be united and neglecting political differences, working together exclusively on the well-being of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30532	Let's move on, now he'll speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague named Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30533	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. What is a fact is that we from the opposition but not just us from the opposition, but primarily from the profession, the scientific public of Croatia, the weekly during October and November, appealed, prayed, kumila, invited, however you will, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to introduce more concrete and clearer measures. It happened in the end, but it happened two months too late. We can and must be satisfied today that these measures have started to have an effect, but we must also ask ourselves, with full law, what was the wait for? Dear Minister, the report states that the second wave was expected, as much as you state that it was inevitable. Just given that sentence in your report, there's still more to ask why we let the measures wait, that tens of thousands be unnecessarily infected, and hundreds die. That's the responsibility you'll be carrying. But there will be time to discuss this responsibility when the pandemic is over, when we are finally healthy and finally able to move freely with our country as we wish. Until then, we must learn from what happened because otherwise, everything was in vain. And I'm not, I'm not entirely sure we learned that lesson, and that's my biggest offense to this report. There's no depth analysis in this report. And even after this report, we still don't know which or where the biggest sources of infection are, we don't know where the disease is spreading, we can tell, but we don't have that analysis. If you made it in this report, you didn't present it. That's why we don't know if the right measure is from what was done, for example. The closing of catering facilities or gyms or it was necessary to do something else, we don't know that, we can only sense it. Today, when we are likely to give in to some measures, we know that this discount does not result from one analysis, but from just one assessment that is based on what is right, I don't know what this or that is. For example, in the United Kingdom, such an analysis was made. And that analysis showed that just now the catering facilities are not the primary source of the infection, it went the other way. We in Croatia, I'll do it again, we don't have it. We do not have a systematic and serious approach in Croatia. We have appealed to the introduction of a light method where, on the basis of clear criteria, everyone could face what awaits them if they do not follow the measures. There have been some shy announcements by Mr. Capak that such a system will be introduced in Croatia when we talk about easing, but what we see today, the debate that precedes today's release shows that this traffic lights system has not been introduced. We're still flying through the metaphoric fog of the pandemic without radar, and that radar was supposed to be the analysis I'm talking about, that radar was supposed to be this report we're discussing today, but it's not. My colleagues and colleagues, the pressure of science, the pressure of the profession and the pressure of the opposition had an effect. If the pressure had not been put in place, there would have been no stricter measures in late November, and then there would have been no results with which we can be satisfied today. This pressure must continue, and this pressure today requires you to take extra steps, extra steps, extra very concrete actions, which is a deep analysis that will show what the real sources of infection are, where the Republic of Croatia and its citizens are threatened with real risk and how we will face that risk, and not that, based on any sense, we are assessing whether we should close this or that. And that closure creates another problem because other than human health, responsible authorities must also care about the health of the economy. We know, at least I hope we know that poverty is one of the greatest risks to the health picture of a country and one nation. Poverty is a generator of disease. And poverty is one of the greatest and most dangerous results of the health crisis. That is why we are today because today we are discussing not only health measures but also the impact of all the measures taken under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, which is why today we should also discuss the economic impact of the crisis, or the economic response to it, but we are not doing so. Compensation measures required by the Croatian economy are either late or not sufficient or not paid. That is why we again urge the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do everything possible to improve these compensatory measures, and those introduced paid in time. However, compensatory measures that will help economies to survive this month's crisis are simply not enough in themselves. Compensation measures are a step to survive. However, what the Croatian economy needs is another set of measures, an additional set of measures that will allow entrepreneurs to end as soon as the crisis is over, as soon as this lockdown passes, and when our society and economy finally, and I believe that we are all looking forward to it, fully open to work, so that they can start making profits and can begin to generate the economic development of the country. This can only be done so that the state prepares and has a clear wind in their back to know whether it opens on May 1, July 1, or some other day, they can start working immediately afterwards. Such a clear set of measures, and that's not your soul by the respected ministers, it goes to the soul of some other colleagues from the government you're sitting in, such a set of measures we haven't seen. Entrepreneurs themselves have proposed part of these measures, one of which is, for example, the reduction of VAT in catering and tourism, the other is a major aid to tourism agencies. It's only one part of what's proposed. I therefore clearly call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to either propose better measures than those proposed by the entrepreneurs themselves or accept what the entrepreneurs are asking for because it is necessary that our economy, after the end of the lockdown, may immediately begin to function and not from one health threat, and the pandemic, that is, go to another health threat called poverty. The poverty of all citizens and citizens of this country, the poverty of our workers, the poverty of our entrepreneurs. It's something that both we in the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have to worry about. And finally let me look back on one serious problem, which is the problem of vaccination. The Republic of Croatia has accepted a solution to obtain vaccines at EU level and I will not attack the Government of the Republic of Croatia for this reason, I would probably, if I were in such a position and accepted such a solution because it is clear that without participation and action in the EU, the Republic of Croatia would not be able to deal with many richer countries that would then have a priority because they can pay more in the purchase of vaccines. That's a fact. We cannot allow only those who are rich to prosper in such a health situation, it is totally unacceptable to me as a socialist that is something I must fight against. However, we must also openly say here that the EU Commission, when it comes to the procurement of vaccines, was not at the level of the task. She was far more bureaucratic, and far less so as to ensure that Member States receive a certain required dose of vaccines, and that is the responsibility of the EU Commission and we must not run away from talking about it in HS. And we are EU Member States, and when we are not satisfied with how the EU Commission is doing, that is what we need to say clearly. However, EU Member States have mechanisms at their disposal. EMA is not alone authorised, is not the only one authorised to authorise the use of a specific medicinal product in the territory of a Member State. Procedures are prescribed, but also national medicines agencies have the right to authorise a particular medicinal product. Therefore, and I see that Mr Beros has answered, I ask the question, was the Republic of Croatia alone or in talks with other EU Member States trying to take something to make other producers’ vaccines [[Intruder: Thank you.]] potentially placed on the Republic of Croatia market? [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30534	As you have already announced, it reported on behalf of Prime Minister Willi Beros, 5 minutes of exposure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30535	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I am absolutely certain that everything you have said has been said with a view to acting positively in defense of the health of the Croatian people. However, as someone who has been working almost every day for almost a year on this job, it is simply difficult to hear that the measures are unplanned, that they are obvious, that there is no deep analysis and I would really like you to attend a meeting of the Staff, an epidemiologist, a number of experts who analyse a series of elements that are needed to make a relevant decision. You said that in the UK, they've analysed the detection that the catering facilities are not the primary site of the spread of the virus. Maybe they're not the primary site for the spread of the virus, but I'm asking you, why are the UK's catering facilities closed? It's precisely because the epidemiological waist knows that staying in a closed area and hanging out in those gauges that are smaller than allowed places is what contributes to the spread of the virus. Therefore, all of this, as well as a number of other elements, was taken into account in the adoption of measures. They're not surprising, they're not brought under pressure and we live every day from morning till tomorrow, and we're thinking about all this together. When it comes to this traffic light, we can talk about it, I absolutely have no problem, but only one element, and that is the number of newly infected is absolutely insufficient to make any decision. Well, I said a little while ago even if we add the number of hospitals and the number of deaths, you understand, that's absolutely not enough. So we need all of those elements that are current at some point, consider. We don't even know what's going to come up tomorrow as some new element. Now we have variants of the virus, they're around us, and that's a big danger. So if we have a traffic light that doesn't involve the existence and operation of the variant of the virus, then we're in big trouble and under-thinking. That is certainly what I wanted to say to you, and I will answer your question, of course, that I agree that at this point the EU Commission has not shown enough strength to simply honour one agreement and agreement between the vaccine manufacturer and the EU Commission and Prime Minister Plenkovic at the EU Council and in person in talks with Stella Kiriakides, and I have pointed out this problem and said that in front of the EU Commission as such, the association of Member States must act towards producers, which they are now doing. How's that story gonna end, I don't know, but I hope for a good outcome. However, when it comes to other manufacturers' vaccines, I started in response, but I didn't make it. So some have passed only the first, some the first and second phases of clinical trials. They're a long way from the third. The fact is that you said that with EMA's approval there are national agencies that can grant a certain approval, however, if we are an EU member, it is expected that this vaccine would be safe for use with Croatian citizens if the prescribed procedure passes. Neither the Russian vaccine manufacturer nor the Chinese has registered for the time being either EMA or any other, except that Hungary has agreed on a certain amount of vaccines for a clinical trial. So, this vaccine is in the phase of a clinical trial and as such I don't think it's safe enough to think at this point about the talks on buying that vaccine. I believe that the EU Commission will find strength and opportunities simply respect what the contracts have evaluated and signed on the amounts of vaccines supplied to the EU. And so, once again, I'm just going to tell you, all of our measures haven't been taken by surprise, they're really deep, deeply thought out, and we've analyzed a series of factors that I can talk to you about in person and beyond, and we can talk about and write about what's been taken into account. This was neither obvious nor under any kind of pressure. In addition, we always listened to county headquarters, so if national in something was wrong, they could correct the county headquarters, so it didn’t happen so often. Our cooperation has been and is now very constructive and almost daily so that we are all doing this job together as well as we are fighting to preserve the health of Croatian citizens. There he is, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30536	You stay here because you have nine replicas. First up, comrade Ban Vlahek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30537	Dear Ministers, given that information on measures of civil protection headquarters relating to the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 virus is given directly ahead of the application of these measures, which prevents business planning and gives citizens a sense of uncertainty, clearly and openly asking you again, can we expect what I would like to urge this way to adopt criteria to know in advance which measures are being introduced, which are being put in place and which are easing depending on the situation and the number of infected? I believe that this would significantly ease the stress that citizens feel and help the economy make business plans and decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30538	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30539	Thank you for this very interesting question. So, I am of the contrary opinion that citizens do not feel insecure about taking these measures but rather about security because these measures are aimed at preserving their health. And in answer to the second part of the question, I would tell you next, it would be optimal for us at this point to say what will be the criterion in 3 weeks because it would mean that we have all the relevant data, we have information about everything, we have information about how in 3 weeks, the epidemiological situation will be consistent with the release of senior primary school students if that happens. You understand, you have new elements from day to day to day that you need to act, see. We do not know in 3 weeks what will be the answer to increased mobility of Croatian citizens. We do not know whether from Slovenia, Italy or Switzerland, Austria where there are new variations, this virus will come to the Republic of Croatia. So that's all the questions we don't have answers to, but I'm trying to be as thoughtful as possible, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30540	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30541	Dear Minister Beros, I just asked you a question, you gave me the answer that you are not competent and that the question is complex. Here I am now going to ask you a question again, you have a minute to try and give you one extra answer that the Croatian citizens are asking for. The question is simple and I believe that it has fallen to everyone's eyes that in BiH, regardless of not having a strict lockdown like Croatia, because there are catering facilities and cafes and restaurants without greater restrictions, we have a constant decline in the number of infected people, a drop in the number of hospitalized, a few people on the respirators. In Croatia, which is a country, I will say more similar structures of the population and similar sizes and similar numbers of the population as BiH, despite this large number of lockdown, we have much larger numbers. The question is why does Croatia have lockdown or why not operate catering facilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30542	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30543	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic, for repeating this question and I think it is essential to say something about my competence. I'd be a very bad minister if I thought I could evaluate and make any conclusions. I'm a neurosurgeon, I know how to operate, that's what I can do with my eyes closed, but I don't imagine I know epidemiology, I don't imagine I know dermatology, I don't imagine I know pulmology, there are experts who will tell me as a minister what to do and how to do. The truth is, I'm not running away from responsibility, the biggest responsibility is mine, I'm a minister, but I don't know epidemiology, I don't know to the extent that I can be the one to propose certain measures or suggest anything. I can, given my general knowledge of medicine and by reading professional literature and reading and following what is going on outside, see it and simply believe it or not to believe it, but we gave faith to the profession and it was in the first and now here in the second wave proved very good. About the situation in BiH, I already told you that she Very likely... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30544	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30545	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, about the work relating to the criteria, obviously we will not agree, but I will allow myself to tell you that the criterion doesn't have to be one, that the criterion can be a set of criteria that will take care of both the number of infected and the number of hospitalized, etc. However, it is obvious that you have chosen another approach and it is difficult for me to say but it is your right regardless of the results. However, you cannot deny that the whole of October and the whole of November were pressures and scientific and other public to impose strict measures. And when they were introduced, there was indeed a reduction in the number of infected and these are facts. But I will ask you to answer me specifically. If the European Commission does not do what we expect it to do, what will Croatia do, what will you do as a minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30546	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30547	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. MP. When it comes to the European Commission and the vaccine, I will tell you, therefore, that when any other vaccines go through all phases, the necessary phases of clinical trials, and if there is evidence that they are first effective and secondly safe, then we will certainly think about the way and the possibility if there are needs and in finding a way to get to these vaccines. It's more or less unquestionable. When it comes to criteria, it would be very good if we could at some point look at everything that awaits us in the future. This is most often not possible, I have already said several examples, and so are the new strain, the consequences of the current measures and everything else. So I think I have nothing against this concept, but the concept is to look at the day-to-day situation and the depth analysis of the events of epidemiological and social and economic events from day to day. on a day equally effective and delivers good results. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30548	Comrade Sablar Dračevac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30549	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I asked three questions, I didn't get one answer, and then we'll do it again. So, what the government is doing was my first question, so I can answer it myself, nothing is waiting for the European Commission to solve the problem. What's the new plan, he's gone, we're waiting for the European Commission to solve the problem. And the third question is whether or not we're gonna be split by the season, the season is very important to us because it's the most full of our budget. Unfortunately, we won't be vacated until the season, and the question is what kind of repercusion it's going to have in the season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30550	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30551	Here's the situation now I can answer your question that you don't think I didn't want to or wanted to or knew. So I will tell you that, I have already said that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has been in talks with the European Council, and directly with the president, talking about it, and he points out that we should fight for our rights and personally communicate with the health authorities of Europe, so that is the direction of our movement. And as I said, we're going to look at the wider situation with the vaccines that are on the market, but at this point they're far from where we know they're safe and they're reliable for vaccination. Secondly, the plan adapts from day to day. I believe that on the basis of our efforts, given the percentages I've said to the vaccine supply reduction, we'll split every other dose of the vaccine, waiting for the Pfizer vaccine to arrive, and then continue to spread the range of vaccinations if and when the AstraZenecci vaccine comes, which is not only us but also the entire Europe account. And third We absolutely agreed that the importance of the tourist season [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's very important and we're looking that way. [[Intruder: Thank you Ministers]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30552	Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30553	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Minister, allow me just one comment. First of all, traffic lights and measures. The measures are not only figures in the excel table or copy paste of any measures taken by other EU countries because then your headquarters would have an easy job. Each country is specific, requires a brain think where each piece of the puzzle needs a seat in its place. And then a comment on a few incorrect statements. The first number of vaccinations in Serbia is incorrect, flows from one medium and is multiplely smaller than was indicated. Those who lobby for one branch of the economy just to know the UK has closed pubs, restaurants, etc. Spanish curfew until May, France closed cafes, restaurants, theaters, cinemas, ski resorts, everything. Germany's lockdown drastic. Dutch drastic lockdown Portugal, Denmark and Ireland all lockdown [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30554	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30555	Thank you, Mr. Academyman, for those words. I don't have anything to refer to. However, Mr. coat of arms, I'm going to turn this one around a little bit, and I haven't been able to answer anything that isn't exaggeration, but a constructive debate. Well...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30556	Minister, I have to interrupt you, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, find a form to respond to your colleague, the right colleague, Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30557	Okay, okay, okay, okay, thank you. So I'm going to talk about lockdown and its effect on measure, so we're testifying that today in Great Britain we have the fact that they're going towards stricter measures, and they're doing the same thing in Germany, so they don't have results at this point. Therefore, the restrictive weight of the measure itself is related of course to the results, but not only is there a series of other elements that we were really trying to cover by doing a depth analysis of this and adapting to the measures. We are pleased that we did so in November and that the measures with respect to those of the responsible Croatian citizens received results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30558	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30559	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Minister, there are a number of things we can all agree on together. We can agree that the Covid-19 pandemic is really all over the world and that different countries are fighting differently. We're a small country, there's four million of us, so we fight in the way we know and can. From this analysis, or what you've given, we wanted to read out what these were mistakes we've made, it must have been mistakes, it couldn't have happened what we're going to change in the future. You know very well that there was an announcement from the second wave and that we were waiting for the fall and that we were surprised. But that's my question I want to ask you. About the summer we decided to evaluate certain counties, so that we would evaluate Croatia as the foundation of the counties. Croatia has one specific shape and the same and the virus is different individual parts. Whether you'll return that topic to the county is the county headquarters may be stricter, but they can't be more liberal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30560	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. So, as I said in response to your colleague, I'm not saying that everything was perfect and that we had no errors, loss of ability to track contact at one point when the number of newly infected was very large and one of the dysfunctionalities caused by the lack of personnel and some other elements. When it comes to the role of the county headquarters of civil protection, I think they've always been constructive so far, as I said we've been in a situation where we've mostly gone in a way that tightens measures, they were then proposing individual measures. I believe that this conversation needs to evaluate all of this and I am not excluding the possibility that in the future they can propose a reduction of measures. However, regardless of this very specific form of ours, it is necessary that the internal migration of the population contributes to the spread of this virus, that we cannot look at the split-up of the Republic of Croatia to such a degree as to require some general concept, and as you know, we ourselves insisted on a regional assessment during the summer because of tourism, because of the assessment of other foreign countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30561	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30562	Dear Minister, you said you yourself are not actually dealing with that part of medicine and there is no need to know these jobs, but the people who are on your team need to know, but you should also have a team and people who are dealing with crisis management. In fact, we've heard it a lot of times ourselves, it's about the Covid crisis. Crisis managers will do a different risk assessment, make different decisions, and draw attention to some things, and then no question will happen like Mr. Reiner's asked what we're going to do with the trafficker's technique. It's not one table, it's put in a context of much more risk, it's put in context all the conditions that happened, and then we'll know what to do after that. My question is, among other things, why we didn't follow best, for example. New Zealand, why don't we follow their example, and why did we give up looking for a zero patient? So man gets infected, but we don't know who he's infected with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30563	Yeah. Dear Mr. MP, I thank you for these questions. I absolutely agree with you that there must always be someone in crisis management, however, this is a very specific health crisis, a global pandemic and a local epidemic and the best crisis managers in this context are epidemiologists, so people have been taught their whole life how to respond to a particular epidemic that was in the Republic of Croatia and they have not, of course, stayed so remembered because they were short-lived and far less dangerous to the life and health of Croatian citizens. So that's the element for crisis management itself and I'm sorry, your second question was, I didn't write it down? Thank you for that, so there is no such thing as a magic wand or a universal recipe for overcoming this epidemic. [[/Intruder: Why didn’t we follow best, such as, for example, New Zealand and their examples?]] A series of specific circumstances are from the forms of land, tourism, education, economic activities affecting our results, or our thinking, it is not possible to prescribe measures. It is always possible, of course, to look back at what someone is doing, but measures cannot be copied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30564	The next replica is the distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30565	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, respecting the criteria for the adoption or mitigation of measures, etc. The traffic light we keep telling you about, so here's how you don't quite accept it. I agree that there is not only one item on which you can make decisions. However, all these months are followed by a 7-day incidence, cumulative rate, and in 14 days, for every day, for every county, for all of Croatia and let's take an example of online teaching and more testing that we kept talking about, we called for you to do so. 23.11. and 21.12. when online classes were introduced for all primary schools, there were 4 weeks, 90 thousand more newly ill and 1859 more dead. So here, why didn't she introduce herself before online classes? Why didn't it start with tests that were conducted in homes for older and powerless and companies in Međimurje, Varazdin, where we were the most endangered only in mid-December? Also, just in some schools, why hasn't it been accepted before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30566	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30567	Thank you very much for your question. So on the criteria, we absolutely agree that they must all exist, but what we stress is that we cannot look at today what will be current in 2, 3 weeks and that only by following the situation and analysing the numerous parameters of which this epidemiological statistics, such as the number of newly infected in different days, are only one of the elements that should be considered and considered. And secondly, we can agree that although there is still no clear epidemiological evidence that children are such, especially those lower classes of transporter and that they do not suffer from disease, we have experience that we have seen during the 10th, 11th and 12th months. So there are data, very exact at the day of the disease of children and age, they're not extreme, they're not large and they're not epidemiologists at that point. The second thing, when it comes to the transfer of possibly asymptomatic children of the disease virus to their own, older people living in a joint household, then it is possible and then we have responded to the measures and simply adapted to the new situation. Now we're also trying gradually as we introduced, so and gradually relaxing measures to get an answer which is optimal in the education system. [[Intruder: Time.]] There is no optimal recipe or anyone in Europe, and I agree with you that better organize and conduct a wider antigen test, and I just said in my presentation that antigen testing to represent one significant base to improve the fight against epilepsy. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30568	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30569	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, I'd just like to say something, I really don't have a problem for you to succeed, I want you to succeed. I wish Croatia was the best in Europe. That's really what we'd like to congratulate you on, but what I feel is that you don't understand in one way. When it comes to traffic lights, colleagues say that, it's not a question of one criterion. Introduce the criteria that you think you should at some point, it's quite clear to me that you're going to start with one criterion first, then you'll realize that you need 2, 3, 4, 5. But what people need, what the economy needs, needs some kind of point to catch up on and say, if that happens, then we know that we're going to do this. And that's what you're warned about, which your colleague warned you about in crisis management. Yeah, epidemiologists know the best answers to the crisis, but believe me, an epidemiologist sure as hell won't be able to build the fastest or turn a hospital out of a normal hospital into Covid, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30570	Thank you. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're back on that traffic lights issue. I personally have nothing against him. Except for the problem that in the future in a week, two or three there will be a number of elements that will need to be taken into account, and will not be covered by a traffic light. Therefore, I think that the safety of citizens is more important to know that there is someone who day by day, but watch out, day by day, monitors all relevant factors to make adequate decisions than there are some traffic lights that will be inefficient, for example, for 2 weeks because they will not include those elements that will at that time be dominant. And we're going to look at it from day to day all the necessary circumstances we need to be able to identify this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30571	The next replica is the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30572	He's extremely concerned about the position and behaviour of the government. You said we had no choice but to be sentenced to the fact that the European Commission is getting drugs for us from Western pharmaceutical companies that are clearly making a difference and where geopolitical inequalities do come from. The prime minister called it "vaxin hi Jacking", it is not a kidnapping, it is a reflection of Croatia's position on the EU's periphery. We have choices, you can't say we don't have a choice when hundreds of people die a week. The vaccine is produced by both Russia and China and Cuba. The moment people die, you can't say that we don't have a choice and agree to a car colonial perspective where Europe decides how many vaccines we get.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30573	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. I think Europe is very fair, and I have told you what Eurostat method, with the OECD's decision on the epidemiological situation, has determined very honestly and solidly how many of the countries will receive the vaccine. Furthermore, Croatia is not the only one in this invisible situation and large economic forces like Germany, France is also in the same situation. And thirdly, I could not agree with you, although I hope that this will change in the future, and that is unfortunately we do not have a choice at the moment because no relevant vaccine of other producers is anywhere near safe application. What we cannot do as a government is to think about using an insecure vaccine, we cannot do it in any way, and I hope that this situation will change and that we will be at a given moment and that we will have a choice and that we will be able to decide on another vaccine if it is confirmed as safe and effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30574	Thank you, Mr. Minister, we're done with this replica. We are now going to discuss clubs, the first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the Honorable Representatives Zekanovic and Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30575	Dear Vice President HS. Dear Minister, the question is clear, I will repeat it, why in BiH, which is similar to Croatia's size and population with milder lockdowns, the number of infected is much higher in Croatia, and what is the most important thing in BiH is cafes, restaurants do? And that's the question that you should be competent to answer, and you just answered this question from this place in a way that you're not. And who's that? Who is he who can answer this question to me, the representative in the HS chosen by the people? And then you say it, you are a doctor, but you're not an epidemiologist. So you're a member of headquarters? So is that what you guys talk about every day? And the most important information, that is, is it true that the scientific advice hasn't been met in a month? So who's taking us? I wonder who's leading us? Based on what parameters do you decide that the cafes won't work? Has anyone ever wondered what I've been asking myself, what citizens are wondering? Why in BiH, our people would say worse in a positive sense, people drinking, celebrating, celebrating in cafes, and the number of people on respirators, the number of people in hospitals, is generally less and less infected. Did we do something wrong, or did our fellow Croats and other peoples of BiH, have some other fluid in their system, and that's not blood? Is this a legitimate question? But the funniest answer is that you say the question is complex and that you are not competent to answer. Here I would like to see what I'm saying now and what you were saying earlier sees Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and to say that Mr. Beros is no longer for the function you are acting, you are not for the Minister of Health of our country of Croatia because you said yourself that you are not competent. That's not what I said, that's what you said. And that's where the story stops. The second question is also very legitimate. Everyone's gonna decide they're gonna vaccinate, they're not gonna vaccinate. However, I must repeat here and remind the Croatian public that from this place, Andrej Plenkovic announced for months that this super-creation, this super-EU will first obtain the vaccine in the largest quantities and suddenly one incompetent Serbia, one ridiculous state in the east has acquired 320,000 doses of vaccines, and Croatia has 30 thousand doses, and we are honored by Croatia. Let's talk about the EU. The EU, is it producing a vaccine? No, I don't. Pfizer and Modern are as far as I know, the American AstraZenec of Great Britain, who said Pope of the EU, Pope of the EU. Sputnik is Russian, Chinese have their own vaccine. Is there a Europe? There isn't. So where are we? What association are we in? And to us, the EU is represented as an imperative, as is a developed modern creation that is only advanced by the fact that in a strange way it takes migrants without any control and order. Are there any crowns in China? There isn't. You know why there's no crown in China? Because only one who is allowed into China can enter China, and anyone who wants a forest or a road can enter the EU, and that's us, and then we're surprised that we're upside down. So, dear Minister, I'll be exact for you. In BiH, 1.11. there were 2,500 patients, now, that was their breath, now they have about 400. We now have about 800, our blow was about 10.12. about 4,600, they don't split too much, but the numbers are dropping. If someone has made a mistake with some measures, so let the ashes be done by someone who introduced the lockdown and controlled this crisis in a bad way says "we made a mistake" and then the inhabitants of BiH, I will say somehow superficially, the Bosnians, turned out much smarter than the Croats in Croatia. So, Minister, I wish you were more competent and perhaps learn something. Or maybe not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30576	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. So we can't get rid of the impression, all of us free-thinking people who are critical of Croatian reality and analyze what's been happening to us this evil for the last year, that we've really been exposed to this vicious infectious disease that has even taken many lives in Croatia. At the same time, like many others in the world, we sought the way, the answers in the second, third months. Last year, we were all horrified, we agreed to all those measures and lockdown and each one in his head was spinning his story, especially against constitutional rights and freedoms, and then the summer came, and we went back to our routine, and now we're back where we are, in one of the country's terrible repressive responses to the restriction of the power and freedom, and we see that something more positive is happening, that those measures you did a month ago, two for who knows what reasons, and yet in Croatia, led to a smaller number of people dying and that fewer people are getting sick. Now, what is actually unsustainable, incomprehensible is the fact that despite these positive trends, you as an operational headquarters, as the commander of the whole crisis, you want to keep the truth to the level of repression inflexible, unselective, hitting with the same gleam and style as if nothing had changed, Mr. Minister. It's changed in front of us, and you can't help but respond to these positive changes because you're getting terrible negative results. We haven't suffered so much loss, we've won the flu, thank God, I guess, I think we're the only one in Europe who's had the flu in 30 years, and let's but the economy, the whole branch, the production of food and drinks, the hospitality, the mental health of the nation, the socialization, you've closed it all down, and we've been terribly frustrated people for the last 2, 3 months. If I'm not talking, we've had a bit of a summer valve release, we're from the fall until now, we've got a problem of social, psychic nature. Many jobs, many, many good, beautiful events took place precisely in one association, not all of us were imprisoned in our premises, and many other jobs were done. We can't wait for the Croatian nation to start something and now it can start, without consequences, but you put us in the perspective no, they have new strains. So when that strain passes, I agree, it's possible that it's justified, we don't have the exact data yet, but it's probably what it is, there in the UK, but in Croatia it's not. Thank God in Bosnia, we can see it's not. Austria is completely closed, Germany is completely closed, bouquets everything. How do you explain that? So let's not slave as a warlord, I can have a point of resistance in front of me, we have a river, that's what it was, it would be best if we didn't, we blew up the dam, we submerged the village, and with some fire rocket, we burned everything, we solved the resistance point problem, and we solved the enemy, but what did we do? War crime. Mr. Secretary, don't commit a war crime, it may be effective, but at the same time you're doing disproportionately huge damage. You have to evaluate daily, scale, no reason to kill the Croatian economy, impoverish people. That's what we can't allow and we'll follow it and when the time comes, we'll put ourselves in charge, if you won't do the job, so there's academic Reiner, there's smart learned people, they don't tell laymen who have nothing to do with the medicine we worship, I worship your humanity when you save people's lives, but please respect life in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30577	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, I didn't want to tell my colleague Zekanovic about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, only when fellow Sacic repeated it, as an example of the BiH Republic. The total number of deaths ultimately speaks of the effectiveness of the health system. A fellow Sacic, a million dead in BiH, 300 more than in Croatia. So in Croatia per million inhabitants, 1900 dead and in BiH 1300... and then this example should not be set for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It speaks of the efficiency of the headquarters and the system that fights the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30579	Time. This was a replica, you have a warning. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30580	Your Honor, Vice President. There he is. He's not our competent minister, but he's a competent president of the HDZ Club. So he takes for himself what he doesn't understand. And the minister who should understand doesn't want to explain it, and maybe he doesn't understand it either. [[/Stain Sanader: Which article?]] So this is funny, actually.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30581	So it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't even refer to the article, but it was mostly a replica, you have a warning. The next club is the club center and GLAS, the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30582	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. When something is called a report on the effects of implementing measures, one expects that in such a text, especially when it has 74 pages. like this, find really something about the effects of the measures that have been taken and implemented. It is indeed and perhaps the most important thing that we need at this point when we talk about administrative processing of the situation in which we have found ourselves because of COVID-19 because it is clear and no one should dispute or try to challenge it, today the crisis has found everything in the whole world as a completely unseen situation and that we have not been able to prepare for it. But we are now entering the end of the first year of facing this new situation and it would be good if we were able to seriously analyze things like this. The effects of the measures to be taken because, indeed, this report also shows and reminds, hundreds of different measures have been adopted. The same things we tried to solve in different ways over time, we tried to solve things once, and by the same measure, we limited freedom, we introduced all kinds of bans and restrictions, we used up money from the budget, we brought entire segments of the economy to the edge of bankruptcy. I was hoping after these years of trying and making mistakes, we'd finally have some sort of review that's good and what's not. Now, don't get me wrong, I really don't blame the method of trying and making mistakes because there really isn't a single behavioral textbook in this situation. But what I resent and truly disappoint me is that although the word “effect” in this report is often mentioned, this is not really any review, let alone an analysis of the impact of the implementation of the measure. From page to page, almost to a sudden list of all possible things that have happened, decisions that have been made, measures that have been taken but after reading this text in detail, I have no better picture of how the state should wrestling with the crown or what lessons are for some similar situations in the future. And I hope, of course, there won't be any. What measures are working and what aren't? What are more and less effective in solving a problem? This report, unfortunately, does not provide an answer. His name is very misleading to anyone who will take him into his arms because the impact analysis does not have any measures. And here in the Parliament, and in the public, for months we've both been representatives and experts of different species and citizens, asking the government and the headquarters to come up with some plan and program of facing the crown. No one expects anyone to have a magic wand, none of them expect anyone to solve problems with that magic wand, but the plan should at least provide for scenarios, events and answers from headquarters, government and competent services within each of the individual scenarios. We never got that. Communication's been really bad since day one. Neither the night before was known what would be decided the next morning nor why something was decided. Well, look what we've got now. So everyone's on the portals, everyone's eager to see what's going to happen on February 1st, so someone's guessing, someone's not guessing, so if this is going to open up, or if it's going to open up what's going to be the basis for the decisions, so even now that we're here in the Parliament, this is what we're discussing in public is going to go out there that there are some measures, that some measures are going to take place. So, February 1st. Well, February 1st is tomorrow. February 1st is in a few days, and when we look at this report that deals with what has already happened, it sees the same relationship. Questions, anything good, no answers. Is there any measure that has been put in place that has won success or result? Which of the various measures they implemented was more successful in achieving the objective? This report simply does not have, let alone some useful analyses of these effects that could be used to make future decisions. Let's be aware of the situation we're in. I look forward to the day when I can shake hands with someone, when I can hug someone, when I can kiss someone goodbye, I don't want this situation we're in right now to be normal. I don't want to meet my friend on the street, I don't recognize her because she has a mask on her face, and I want to live the way we lived, but we're in a situation where I'm in. From your situation let's try to find real conditions and ways to get out better. Let's learn something from this. And that's why I have to say this report is really a disappointment to me. I'd be more incomparable if we got 7 pages. at least some initial impact analyses rather than 70 centimeter lists. One of the biggest problems with facing the crown was the preparation of the health system for new circumstances, not in February and March but after summer, when we already knew what was waiting for us and there was enough time for basic preparation to take place. Both MPs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament recognized the problem and we discussed it all night long when the discussion of health preparation came order even though the health minister who was recovering from the net illness of COVID at that time and in doing so absolutely understand it and I know it was difficult for him and it was not easy for him to spend the night with us here and tried to give answers and we still don't know exactly what the situation was about the questions that we asked at the time. The real answer to the question of why the complete chaos in the health system began in the early autumn, although the hot autumn has been announced since the spring, we have never received it. But we also didn't get an answer that would convince us that the government and the headquarters had done everything that could and should have been avoided. What we are even more concerned about, what we will only get the answer over time through careful data analysis is how many diseases in people who do not have Covid too late or have not been diagnosed at all. How many procedures and treatments are too late. How many diseases and conditions have we failed to prevent because of the way our health system has been functioning for a year. It really works under extraordinary circumstances. And the last thing I want to talk about, and it's mentioned by this report is vaccination. When someone, I have personally passed one of this form of crown and I can tell you from the first experience that it really is a vicious frenzy and that message I am sending from this pay phone and that every time I send to everyone, you are vaccinated. Vaccinate as soon as possible, and now we come to that key question, when will be possible. As a member of the EU, we participated in joint plans and negotiations and respected the principles of solidarity and fair distribution, but somewhere there was a short merger. Has the European administration made any further mistakes than the citizens in the steps? Did we react gently, instead of seriously stepping on the first sign of the problem by producers who received billions of euros in money, European citizens for the development of the vaccine? We'll talk about it. I'm absolutely sure we'll talk a lot more. What remains the priority of our Government and the Staff is that under the circumstances in which we have found ourselves, the vaccination of people in Croatia is organised as efficiently and quickly as possible. We have to get back as soon as possible to a normal life because otherwise our entire segment of the economy is going to fail. And people, like they say, are gonna blow our brains out. That's priority number one now. 1 and therefore from this pay phone I ask the Government and the Staff to take a serious job. More serious than we've ever done before, and certainly more serious than this report normally doesn't sound good to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30583	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30584	Comrades and fellow parliamentary representatives, we have already heard enough about what is missing from this report. We also heard a lot about what questions we should have asked and what questions we should have received from this report. What we talked about most, which I will underline myself, is that this should have been the Impact Report so that, based on these positive or negative effects, the measures could jointly decide what are the best possible measures for the next period. Since we have not received such a report, that we have received only a review of the measures taken that we listen to every day in the Staff report, this paper as such is not worth much to us. It's not worth much, but it's worth something, so I'm going to look back at what a careful reader could find in this report, and what I find deeply disturbing, worrying, and segment that violates some kind of democratic activity, which is very much about all of our citizens, which they've never been familiar with before. 2 are key issues that we need to deal with at the moment, regarding the work of the Staff, or our dealings with this pandemic. The first question is the question of the vaccine. So, in recent days, we've been witnessing the incredible chaos of getting the vaccine. Our answer to that is lovely. It's about one regret, and it's about the breakdown of the institutions we believed in. That, I can tell you, is very nice and poetic to deal with the situation, but not enough stately in a situation where we really need to react. That regret is not allowed because, if this were to come, you should have known earlier and you were warned and I gave my speech in the House at 11 months. where I was talking about exactly how the pandemic will potentiate inequality. How Remdesivir was obtained during the summer by the United States so that all the supplies for the European market disappeared. Everyone knew that the health market had already created inequalities, and now we're falling off Mars and fainting when we hear that the vaccine can't be obtained properly. What this Report taught us is one terrible fact, which is that contracts, contracts that we, as we could hear of the minister's response to the replica, know nothing, which really raises our position and power within the EU as well as our fundamental democratic rights. It's a loan agreement. The contract makes us get what is said to be, super plus doses of vaccines and top-up doses of vaccines, which means excess, and that surplus is how resourceful we are after that, donate or resell. So we're doing well in exporting, since that resale I won't even think about what's going to happen, ha donations, here's what we're going to see, it seems like these countries that are outside the EU are getting along better than we are, so we won't have anything to donate to them either, then we can possibly deal with the recovery of serious medical waste. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a racket. What are we doing on the EU market? What are we doing within the EU's institutional framework to fight as a democratic sovereign country for our rights and for more transparent procedures for the transparency of the agreement with vaccine producers? Seeing as we're crying over the breakdown of institutions that we believed we weren't familiar with contracts, we're obviously not doing anything. That chaos is now seen in a shortage of vaccines. In the future, we can expect him in a surplus that he will then accumulate and deal with on his own. Another thing, what does it mean for you, ladies and gentlemen, is the criteria, a key criterion called "the needs of the Croatian population"? This is the criterion on which the vaccine is supplied as well as any other medical equipment. But if we look at this document then we see that 6,799,962 doses are being obtained, you are incredibly accurate at detecting coverage of the needs of the population and I congratulate you on that. But then we discover the government's decision of December 23, 2020, which is once again referred to as the incredibly precise 5,905,000 doses of vaccines, which are again covered by the needs of the Croatian population. Since this is the simple mathematics of the needs of the Croatian population suddenly increased by almost a million doses of vaccines, I am interested in whether our fertility in these 2-3 weeks simply exploded or if it is not who knows how to detect the needs of the Croatian population, the government or those who are responsible for the report of the headquarters or even more to whom the needs of the Croatian population are merely a flossule that hides their inability to obtain certain precise amounts of vaccines? The second question concerns the problem of public procurement. We have already warned that public procurement is transparency, although it is missing too, in Croatia is very problematic, the only way to obtain medical equipment in a way that gives us the most favourable offers and that is in line with what should be allowed by law, which is with the principle of transparency, with the principle of availability and with the principle of cost-effectiveness, so that citizens do not throw money into the wind. It is said that by decision of March 17th to skip public procurement because of the special strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia that we as a country that I do not know all attack, like the country everyone threatens, keep our medical equipment secret, that is our strategic interest. All right, it's really possible. But then we return to what the carefully reader reveals, which is that we are taking part in a joint public procurement process at EU and Remdesivir and respirator level, so that the EU, which we are part of, is that even in the crisis, it does not have to worry about its strategic interests and can pass the public procurement process in order to get the best possible offers and respect the principle of transparency, but here we are smarter than the EU. The naive EU is going to public procurement and now the whole world will mock because it will know what it has and what it has, but small Croatia has screwed up the EU, we are hiding our strategic interests, no one will know what we have bought from our medical equipment, so I congratulate you, I think that our political goals and our political tactics should begin to be exported at least at the meetings of the Council of the European Commission since we are ahead of the EU itself in their assessment. These are two basics and two basic questions that arise from this report and which should be paid particular attention. There are several other minor and important issues that are being raised by this report. The stop Covid-19 application was developed, only 55 verification codes for laboratory findings were used, so only 55 users in Croatia decided to notify their contacts anonymously about the risk of infection. The app has experienced a complete debacle, who fits for it, what is wrong with it, which, with its distribution or promotion, is not a word of it. What are the recommendations and what is their legal weight and how they have affected the conduct of Croatian citizens and the prevention of the crown of the crisis, unlike other decisions, not a word. It's sloppy, the report's sloppy. For example, statistics are found for group antigen testing in elderly homes, and schools are skipped, which is one of the crucial things we should know that we know how to take measures. What measures to take further? What I will remind myself of is that our fundamental and social objective is a minimum of measures with maximum effect, not a maximum of late measures with minimal or no effect, which is what we see by seeing all the analysis that we have here and the lack of criteria on what this report and our obvious future action comes down to. We also need an analysis of the quality of water and the potential impact on the environment, the huge amounts of disinfectants we have used in all of this period, and there is no question here. We could use an analysis of the discrepancies inside the advice rather than a notice that we have it. We could use more information about a meeting with the media that the government organised and why it told the media what to do. These are questions that we haven't learned anything about, and the questions this report should have spoken about if you really wanted to say something in this honorable home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30585	The next debate is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30586	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State. Perhaps one part of the answer to the question asked by counterpart Selak Rasdic can give a new scale of the corruption index that has just come out today where Croatia is in association with Belarus, from European countries only worse than us are Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania, and let's say one Estonia, which is often mentioned here, we look at the back and quite because it is at the very top when this index is at stake, but not by the size of corruption but by the quality of the fight and by the fact that it has little corruption. The coronary virus epidemic had a significant impact on the world, we've all seen it, and in principle this report brings us back a whole series of some statistics, etc., is it, we've already gotten used to it, and as we've already talked about this topic really several times in HS, I've decided to talk this time based on 3 numbers that we're told every day and I'd even say that the public is over-bombing with them. The first number is the infected, what does that number tell us? We know that not everyone who is infected is being tested, we also know that at the beginning of the epidemic we did 30 tests a day, so we could have had a maximum of 30 infected, which doesn't mean there were so many. So cumulatively speaking, that's an incorrect number. The second number's dead, no autopsy. We don't know if they died with covid or covid, so that's some kind of approximate number. The third is the number of patients who are hospitalized. At the beginning of the epidemic, we treated everyone at the hospital, and then most of them at home, and only the more difficult cases in hospitals, and in view of the cumulative, the number is not correct. Here's to correcting me if I'm wrong. So we have every day information about 3 numbers that are, least of all, indicative, approximate and partially accurate. But despite this white fact, there are still 3 numbers in front of the cameras, and from time to time they are complemented by some expert of these 3 approximately exact numbers again, so the question is how accurate is this derivative? So I appeal to both members of the headquarters and all the media to change the approach that in principle is transparency, but it personally reminds me more of the material of an object that we older people know, and we listened to it in other times and in another country. Why am I saying this and why are your numbers important? Because according to these numbers, we bring certain measures or maybe not. About how contradictory the measures were already very much spoken here and in the media, so for a while you had to have a mask when you went to pay for the fuel, but if you drink coffee in a coffee shop that's part of a gas station you don't have to have a mask. The virus attacks when you pay the bill, when you drink coffee, you don't. Then we changed that. Then pools, if you go to spas as a tourist you can bathe, if you're a kid who trains swimming there's no swimming in the pool. About tennis and how you get infected when you throw a ball, etc. There were a lot of comments, too. One measure taken at the end of last year referred to a ban on moving among the counties. It's becoming completely unclear why this measure was introduced. When it was abolished after an earthquake in Banovina, we did not record a larger number of infected in the next two weeks, it remains truly questionable on what basis was this measure introduced and when will you reintroduce it? Will you bring her in and again on what grounds? What sounded quite this good and positive throughout this story was rewarding health care professionals or so on. Covid supplement. On the first hand, it really sounded good, but it turned out that some had a desire to go to work in Germany, so the 7501st nurse left us, this was followed by her colleagues with joy along with a harmonica, and some others again expressed their disgust over the height of the supplement because it amounts to only a few dozen kunas. If we add this to the fact that employees of our hospital who also covid hospital welcomed Christmas without their salaries paid for November are really a question of relationships with healthcare professionals working with Covid-19 patients. The report lists the costs of testing that amounted to 719 million kuna by 30.11. In the media we've read that with pains it's one billion kunas, today I hear from the minister two billion kunas, so there's a lot of numbers out there again like this, but we'll see in the end when we subscribe to the de facto account how much you're going to amount to. But we can't get away from the fact that the health system generates less than 200 million kunas every month, whether it's covid or not, means some debt of 10 billion which is already probably and at 12 is something we can't escape from and we can't basically just justify that debt with a coronary epidemic. I've already talked about some kind of hospital costs that have nothing to do with the coronary virus specifically about the KBC Osijek case that has 3 lawyers with a judicial exam, but hires services from outside lawyers who usually lose their working legal disputes, but let's just say, Paschild charged half a million kuna for 2nd year, she is also the City Council of HDZ and probably because she has lost enough disputes or because of some others, perhaps because of her own quality she is currently at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds as chief advisor. This proves that the money in the health system still leaks on many sides and regardless of what we are all now focused on the epidemic of reform in the health system we have been expecting for the last 10 years. And they're necessary. The vaccination campaign was supposed to encourage residents and the fact is that we were skeptical, etc., there was a variety of information on social networks and in the media, but we saw after only a few days, in a relatively short period of time that the vaccine came much slower than expected and that the whole process must actually be slowed now. I admit that I am glad that the attitude of the Homeland Movement was that the vaccine provided for the parliamentary representatives was intended for those who need it more and who are more vulnerable because we see that the saga with the vaccine will continue. And in the end, I have to look back at our economy that suffers great damage regardless of the government's measures, and it seems to me that, here and today, we were expecting some kind of discount, it seems like there won't be a drop, a lot of it actually is connected to the tourist season, it wants to improve the picture, but this rental model of the economy could cost us dearly, because, once again, what I said yesterday, the exports of goods in 2020 were at the level of 2019, so only re-industriousisation, the only launch of production can move this country forward. We must finally begin to reduce our dependence on tourism as the main generator and our GDP and our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30587	We're moving on with the agenda. Dear Representative Katarina Nemet on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30588	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have been behind us almost a year of fighting the pandemic of the coronaryvirus and all the health and economic consequences that the virus has brought into our lives. Measures in combating the pandemic and maintaining such a normal life differ from country to country, more or less successful or unsuccessful, all trying to find a balance between measures aimed at saving the lives of citizens while at the same time enabling such economic activities to take place. Where is Croatia in all of this? As I come from Istria, I especially want to commend the local or regional civil protection headquarters that are always under way with the changes that when we talk about the virus and its movements can be very unpredictable. I must remind myself that it was the Istrian headquarters who reacted among the first to the coronary crisis, and that making such decisions made it possible for Istria to be a green oasis throughout Europe to do a tourist season far more successful than expected. The Istrian headquarters then requested a regional approach that was accepted from the national headquarters. But unfortunately today, when we have a situation that Istria has entered the so-called EU criteria. The orange zone, given the number of cases of coronary virus infection, has no state support. Currently in Istria we have a very favourable epidemiological situation, so Istria is able to approach a gradual and cautious drop in measures. That is why I believe that the national headquarters should also more respect the requirements that come from the field than people who know the situation best in their environment and who have proven themselves to be able to manage the crisis in their area. The key to Istria's success is that since the beginning of the profession it has been in the first place, while politics is only supporting citizens without whose responsible and conscientious behaviour these results would not be possible. Therefore, if the profession says that there were preconditions in Istria that could be carefully and responsibly started with the release of measures, I absolutely do not see any reason why no regional approach could be applied? Why not allow at least one part of Croatia to slowly open if the conditions are met, so it certainly can't hurt but rather just be positive for the whole country. In recent days, there has been talk of a possible drop in state-level measures and we can hear from the national headquarters that county headquarters can only propose stricter measures than those at the state level, but cannot propose softer measures. Such an approach is totally unfair and incomprehensible because it punishes both those who work well and who are motivated to enable their residents and entrepreneurs with quality engagement as much as normal life. Istra has shown many times so far that she knows how to fight the pandemic disciplinedly and does not run away from responsibility, so there is no reason to trust her again. Measures at national level that are equal to all make sense and logic only when the situation is the same in all parts of Croatia, and we testify that it is not. Because I repeat again, against all parts of Croatia that are in the so-called The red zone, according to EU criteria, is the only one in the orange zone in terms of the number of coronary infection, and that's what hearing needs to be said for. As a result, we continue to insist that measures or restrictions are introduced in accordance with the regional principle that has proved to be most effective both in our country and in the world. I certainly must say that it is no good that the government has given up consensus with the opposition on combating the pandemic. At the very beginning, the opposition has shown that we are constructive and that we know how to recognize the difficult moments that require responsible moves. For its own reasons, however, the government unfortunately decided to take a different approach unilaterally, often bringing unfair and inappropriate measures. The ban on the work of all catering facilities, the abolition of all sports and recreation activities, other restrictions and restrictions, and the law that prescribes the punishment of citizens are by no means the right way out of this crisis. Citizens and entrepreneurs are increasingly revolutionised every day and realize that measures are not adequate. All right, the government will say that it gives support to everyone who can't work, but the thing is that unfortunately, the government has double criteria in terms of taking measures and unfortunately doesn't agree to constructive criticism, as well as reasoned questions about why something can't be done and why something can't be done. It is high time to reconsider the justification of each individual measure to be applied. The government and headquarters must also show understanding for young athletes who want to practice and train, as well as for hosts who are in an entirely unsustainable situation. Of course, the hosts, but the citizens themselves, must take their share of responsibility and adhere to the prescribed epidemiological measures, but in this way complete closure they do not even have a chance to maintain their business. Finally, it is obvious that we have an inconsistencies policy of managing this crisis that is changing depending on the political moment and the needs of the ruling ones. It is therefore necessary to establish the justification of any measure currently being implemented and, in accordance with the expert assessment, to assess whether the measure should be abolished or extended, while respecting people from the field, local headquarters who know and understand the situation in their territory and who, above all, have shown that they are able to manage the crisis and bring timely and adequate measures. The measures must not be arbitrary but must be based on clear indicators, on the data of the profession, and therefore must be delivered. But the government makes decisions whenever it wants and when it considers it appropriate. It has turned out badly, citizens are losing confidence in a national headquarters that has long lost credibility. So, at least save what you save to and let local headquarters take measures on their own for those parts of the country where they know best the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30589	The next debate is on behalf of HSLS and Reformist MP Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30590	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, after an extremely difficult and dramatic situation in Varazdin County during November and early December when we were hit most by the region of the coronary virus in Europe for 15 days, the epidemiological situation stabilized and finally improved significantly in January. This is the result of the Varazdin County model, or measures introduced by the national headquarters on 20.11., and of the persistent and repeated search for the Civil Protection Staff of the Varazdin County. The same measures were applied a week later throughout Croatia in which they also gave clear and visible results, and therefore our health system lasted and therefore the number of our respirators survived. The results of the measures in our county are clearly reported. The number of cases per week to 100,000 people fell from the highest 1.216 in November to 103 cases per week in January. The same situation is true in a Varazdin hospital where at one point we had as many as 278 people with a heavy clinical picture. The number today fell to 72 people in hospital treatment. So, the measures we proposed and for which we had to fight, unfortunately literally, in the context of the fact that the national headquarters and when we were already the worst region in Europe continued to refuse or mitigate the proposals of our measures, but after they were finally introduced, they were as we can see results. The measures proposed, and then introduced, were not by chance and memorized, but by serious analyses and consultations, and in the light of the European and world decisions made by then. For our county and country, it is good that our direction has taken the whole of Croatia, although it has also led to the worst position in Europe because of its delay in measures. The measures give results, a key message for all self-proclaimed crown experts, mathematicians and hosts we have had the opportunity to listen to, who have all become epidemiologists, and especially for all political speculators, including the inescapable number of mayors and mayors, who, in this case, are responsible persons as chiefs of staff, who, because of their political or some other interests, have spoken against measures with various creative explanations, which should not be taken. In Varazdin County we also unfortunately had from the city's hair serious obstructions where we were called for direct obstruction of the measures by going... to coffee in other counties, but also from leaders and mayors of the city who also continuously obstructed our measures in such a way that they said that the infections were not where the whole of Europe recognized that they were hotspots, and these are among other things... catering facilities but that they were factories and they said, of course, that up to 40% were infected right in those factories. Afterwards HZJZ tested several thousand people precisely in the Varazdin County factories and came to the conclusion that there were no 20, 30 or 40% of the infected but only 3% of the infected. All of them are responsible for the delay in the measures and for ending up in hospitals, and unfortunately for the deaths of people who should not have. Unfortunately, in public it has often been communicated that our model is a lockdown or a complete closure, so it is important to stress that our model and the measures we have introduced have made it possible for the Croatian economy not to enter the lockdown. For example, the Varazdin County, and then it's like the whole country's ratios, it looks like this. We've closed down 3% of the economy by measures, and that's the one that all the other countries have recognized is that the focus of the infection is to keep the remaining 97% of the economy working, to stay working industry, factories, plants, to keep companies and crafts alive, and that people can get paid. In our county, a total of 62,000 people are employed by 2,000 in catering, I think the numbers and ratios here are clear. We are safe with the national headquarters is aware of the emergence of new rapid mutations of the virus, problems with a vaccine that is almost entirely related... and of course 20% of our GDP comes from tourism, which is almost entirely related to the upcoming season and will not be put at risk to the health or financial stability of the country by reckless decisions. Of course, we support the gradual relaxation of measures. But now we come to a continuation of this story, which we have communicated in parallel with the requirement to introduce measures, which are appropriate and effective compensatory measures for all who are closed, which are primarily hosts. Unfortunately, it is a completely lost focus on a part of the economy that is closed, which is directly or indirectly tied to over 100,000 families, and it is the final moment to draw a line here and see what is done and what is yet to be done. In fact, the government has taken certain measures that may not satisfy fully, but certainly at this point ensure survival and existence. Unfortunately, they are not realised in a good enough way. The fee of 4,000 kuna provided for the employee is paid after 67 days instead of up to 30 days, which is absolutely too long for employees and their families. However, these over 400,000 paid millions are extremely important only dynamics should be absolutely improved. The measure of payment of the account or of the directorial costs as well as the rent unfortunately does not work. Namely, the caterer is expected to pay for everything on his own first day, so that the paid bills are delivered in order to get back from the state after some xy time. These people have been closed for more than two months, they don't have liquid funds to pay their bills and rent in advance, and then the state is surprised, we've had the opportunity to hear from the Secretary-General that they've received very little requests for return, so they've got a little request for return because the people didn't pay for them because they didn't have anywhere to pay them. And the third problem is the moratorium problem with the banks. In fact, in the first wave of the moratorium epidemic on credit repayments was agreed and settled in less than two weeks, but now neither after two months there is any movement because the credit rates continue to come up for payment, and people are not working. What do you need to do? Payment of the fee of 4,000 kuna shall be made into currency or make payment to all within a maximum period of 30 days. Secondly, directorial accounts as well as lease contracts are official documents and the state can pay them directly, and given the costs of the director, in particular the costs of the rent which remained the same more or less so whether the facility or not works would be the most helpful to the caterers. Third, it is urgent to agree with banks to take the moratorium into effect to repay the loan because, as I said, credit rates are still coming. And fourthly, as a measure of assistance to establish a guarantee fund for liquidity insurance, we have done so in Varazdin County, we have provided several million kunas for this purpose to hold all entrepreneurs, craftsmen, caterers and all others and who are closed and who are difficult to hold back, however, it is a drop in the sea that must be taken by the state. Furthermore, it is clear that all hosts as activities related to catering will not be in the same position after opening. Here we have the Adriatic Croatia which, if all is well, if the pandemic calms down, if the pandemic is enough, can expect one good season and relatively fast and make up for all this which is now missed in this year. Also, the City of Zagreb with its larger GDP, far greater than the rest of Croatia's greater purchasing power, is also in another situation, but there is a problem of Continental Croatia which is particularly threatened and which does not have that kind of tourism or tourist season and which will be coming out of this crisis for a very, very long time. All of this should be taken into account when considering further measures to help this branch. We will certainly talk about it, propose concrete measures, but we expect that from the hosts themselves. Namely, representing this one in the most affected dam was completely missed, their representatives challenged the national headquarters's measures and questioned human health, and did not place aid and compensation measures in the focus of their actions. It's a good thing that the caterers themselves have been identified in the very association that certain changes have taken place, we've established communication with them. These measures that I have proposed today are part of the talks that we have had with them and I believe that we will come up with more quality solutions together, and we ask the state to implement a set of these measures that are very simple, do not require extra financial burdens only greater, clearer and more quality operational efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30591	The next debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, divided by MPs Tomasevic and Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30592	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I don't quite see the sense that the government is reporting to the Croatian Parliament, and that the government doesn't have a proposal either, so I don't know who to communicate with the statement to, and I think it's completely inappropriate. So the promoter, the proposer is no one from the assembly, the proposer is not here, so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30593	Yeah, you're right. I suggest we take a break for 10 minutes, and we'll clear out. So we move on to 14 and 10. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.10 HOURS]] Here you are, dear representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30594	Here, good day to all, I am glad that the applicants joined us, it is good that we have this report in the assembly today, although I believe that this report is too late as some measures of the National Civil Protection Staff and the Government because this is the first report we have in the last 8 months, and we came to this conclusion in December that each, three times a year, we have been doing a report in the Croatian Parliament on the measures taken in the fight against Covid, but our proposal for opposition has been much more often to be done, it has been three times a year, and now we see that eight months we have not had any report that this is actually bad, because now to evaluate what has been done in the last 8 months to learn from some mistakes, it doesn't really make much sense. But well, in any case we're going to remind you even as the Green-Left bloc Club in early November gave a proposal to conclude on the reorganisation of the health system about so-called. a traffic light, on more concrete measures of epidemiologicality, predicting then the growth of hospitalized and dead who unfortunately happened. The government of the Republic of Croatia gave its opinion on the conclusion, of course negatively, but we still did not have a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the conclusion. So it's been almost three months that we've proposed something, and we're constantly told that we don't propose anything as an opposition without even having a debate in the Croatian Parliament about it. And when it comes to the agenda if it's going to come at all or we're going to have to collect 30 signatures so we can even discuss it at the plenary debate, then it's going to be said it's too late. So I don't think it is, it's not some practice as well as you said about creating consensus with the opposition in important national issues which is certainly a fight against Covid. Of course, some things have been answered in the government’s statement, but some things have been silenced at all as if we hadn’t written them in these six concrete proposals that we have elaborated very closely. One of them is, of course, a traffic light. We still hear that it doesn't make any sense, that the ministry, that the Minister and the Government and the national headquarters are resisting it, I don't see, in view of this and that difficult, difficult strain that is threatening us, and I still think that the scoreboard would still work for some future setting of epidemiological situations because it would again be tied to the increase or reduction of the number of hospitalized citizens and citizens who are on the respirator. Whether this heavy strain came or not, it would be harder or not to continue to light in such a way as to define what citizens can expect from measures and much easier to accept and not have a feeling that these measures are constantly partyically let's say selective. I don't mean party-selective only to some in the party, but to be guided by party interests, as it was, for example, the Day of Remembrance in Vukovar. This is the problem when such, such selective measures are created, such contradictions are then simply losing public confidence in institutions that are not related to the national headquarters that should be praised, I think that about 3 or 4 is maximum of 10 reviews of citizens' trust in the National Civil Protection Headquarters. So it's not something great. And with that trust, there's not much we can do to fight Covid. Also, what are certainly contradictory measures that I am still not from the minister today is not really clear to me, how it is possible that a restaurant that can prepare food and drink, sell food and drink can do so in these circumstances from the perspective of coffee to go, or means some delivery, and can't mean a coffee shop that means a drink, as far as coffee is concerned by the main activity. I don't understand what this has to do with gatherings in front of these facilities. So it's equal to the epidemiological risk of being gathered on the terrace of the restaurant and on the terrace of the cafe. If they're both closed together, then it's just as small a risk. So I don't see any sense in the fact that cafes can, that cafes can't sell their coffee to go, and restaurants, gas stations, bakerys, etc. It just doesn't make any sense to me and it seems contradictory and unfair and I don't see why it hasn't been solved yet. As far as these other measures of giving in certainly recreational sports, recreation and sports are concerned, not only in the open, which is now announced today by the government that they will give in, but we have not yet seen any concrete information about it. However, also in indoor areas, such as swimming lessons on swimming pools that are now open only to professional or semi-professional athletes. I don't see much of an epidemiological risk, I don't know about swimming pools where it's been determined how long the swimmers can be until the Covid infection and I don't really understand it, and I don't think that from the perspective of winter and all of those psychological traumas that people have had and because of how long it takes just to close and measure themselves and because of the earthquakes, one and the other earthquakes, that even when cafes and clubs are closed so that they don't give them any more flexible access to recreation and sports, I think it's a very problem especially for the mental health of young and children. As far as the vaccination campaign is concerned, I will say only in the end, I will not moralise anyone in the assembly who has been vaccinated or not vaccinated, but I must only say that when this was presented as an initiative it was said that it was a campaign to convince the public that the vaccine is safe. I believe that the vaccine is safe and I think that we as politicians should contribute to this campaign. However, it was then presented that it would only be a few dozen people in the assembly who, if they wanted to, could be vaccinated, so that it would be said that it was a campaign, and in the end we saw that the vaccination of the general population would take place at the very least in all risk groups and healthcare professionals very quickly to come to the end now with problems in the delivery of vaccines. And what does this campaign now look like where we as politicians and as officials are publicly calling on citizens to be vaccinated, and with what to vaccinate when the vaccine is gone? So that's what's doing the contrast, and I don't think it's good anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30595	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30596	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my colleague. Last year, we warned, and in December we called on the government to take measures to minimise the adverse consequences of the mental health of citizens. Today we heard Mr. Cellic and Mr. Minister actually care about people who have mental difficulties, so this institutional concern that there is, but this isn't about it, even though we can say there's some kind of problem, I just know that the two psychiatric departments are due to moving to covido that they don't even exist in hospitals. However, this is about something else, and neither of us today have told us that since 2016 we have been waiting for a strategy, the National Strategy on Mental Health, and of course I read in an interview Mr. Minister said that strategically, now it's called strategic, mental health development frameworks since '21. By the '30s, that the draft was made, that he was in the commission, we always have whether there were different committees, and then there was a public debate waiting. I hope that we will get a national strategy in fact a measure, and that clear measures, which we will do in situations where we know ourselves, and this also shows European and world statistics that because of the covids of 10% to 15%, these are the estimates of all experts, that they will have populations and chronic and lastingly impaired mental health. We are told by European research that, for example, Covid unit burning syndrome is 40%, which is being warned by psychiatric societies. So, when we have a covid crisis management like we do, if we have non-consistent opening and closing measures, if we don't even know those who run our jobs, don't even know the employees, they don't even know the parents who help the children in online continue, they don't know our children, so if we don't know the uncertainty about how to manage the covid crisis, we need to bring as quickly as possible measures that aren't just about institutional dealing with mental health, I'd say, I won't say when it's too late and when we need such professional help, we need to take measures now that we're going to work on mental health, I't talking about our fellow citizens in Zagreb or in Bania, the slesh Banovina that happened and, and, and I'm an earthquake. But since we are running out of time, we would really like to get answers as soon as possible about how we will and what will do about the mental health of our fellow citizens and ourselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30597	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives and Independent Representatives, the esteemed representative Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30598	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers, welcome aboard. The Covid-19 pandemic is certainly the biggest global health challenge the world faced in the 21st century. Since the Homeland War, our country has not found itself able to solve harder and bigger tasks. In addition to the loss of human lives, Coronavirus has created numerous economic woes such as unemployment, enormous material losses, and feelings of existential uncertainty and anxiety, which is exactly what the colleague was talking about. We have invested our entire social and intellectual capital in combating this invisible enemy, and the outcome is not yet predictable, and we must all fight for that monster to disappear as soon as possible. It was a test for the entire Croatian society, and according to today's results, we can say that we were relatively successful in facing this challenge. The most important challenge facing the Croatian government was to find a formula that would ensure a balance between the protection of the health of citizens and the economic and financial stability of the state. Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases have established an elastic model of crisis management appropriate to the circumstances or potential dangers of the pandemic. We believe that the measures are well elibrated because they achieve the current objectives and are proportionate to the circumstances of the pandemic course. Some measures may have been taken with a certain delay, but we still believe that the headquarters has made the best possible decisions and has so far made them in accordance with the rules of the profession and the current degree of scientific knowledge of this new disease. What is particularly true in this process of combating the pandemic is the fact that the constitution guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens do not at any time limit to an extent that would be inadequately threatened. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been given a kind of crisis management role that it has done well. During the pandemic, the government has shown great understanding for the needs of the economy, which has also been confirmed by the adoption of a whole series of measures. I believe that the government will continue this practice to help vulnerable sectors in the economy as long as the negative effects of the coronary pandemic persist. Current numbers of the daily infected encourage us to maybe start to think about relaxing certain measures, especially those related to the work of catering facilities, here are the constant topics these days, but also for recreation areas and sports activities. We expect future epidemiological measures to be taken in a way that is adapted to the epidemiological images of certain microlocations or regions and counties, so that, if necessary, both at the level of cities and municipalities. We had one such example, it was the case of Vince where, during a certain period, masks had to be worn in the open, it was the first municipality to receive such a measure. The final victory over this pandemic will be achieved by cleavage of a large part of the population, so I hope that the agreement between the EU leaders and pharmaceutical companies will take place as soon as possible and that vaccination will take place during. Finally, I am taking this opportunity to highlight the key role of our doctors, medical professionals in the fight against coronary viruses. With their courage, they offer sacrifice day and night in the fight against the epidemic. It's too little to say thank you to all of them. And while they are fighting for patients, we must take care of them, so I hope that all of these praises will not remain purely symbolic and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the RES will work seriously to improve the material status of our doctors and healthcare professionals, what has already been done to make them more concrete and more effective. This report shall be adopted by the HNS representative club and the independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30599	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, the esteemed representative of Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30600	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. The theme report of the staff measures, as many colleagues have said, is too late for me. But what I could say and what's on my mind is that it's the work of a headquarters that talks to the media every day. Yesterday on their way out of Parliament, three members of headquarters debated before the government without any masks, no social distance. I think that's what motivates me to think, to question and decide and act and be suspicious of a man. Unfortunately, there is much in the work of headquarters that doubts our citizens. I always debate here as a national representative as someone who listens to what people on the ground say, regardless of their party membership and many have nothing to do with parties and politics, be part of all segments of this society and educational groups and therefore try and debate and convey that part of the people's thinking here in the assembly. The work of headquarters in large part of the measures the headquarters is taking is political, which is what I and the people I listen to have been offered to think like that. What's a one-sided headquarters for? Does HDZ alone have experts who can sit in that headquarters? Why didn't HDZ get over some stuff and put in some other political option to sit in headquarters? Are they afraid that every day, in front of the cameras, something might be said or afraid of some information that the headquarters is dealing with and not perhaps to the public? So it's a dilemma that stands before all of us. The headquarters made decisions, not from planes today, but from another planet ahead of the parliamentary elections he helped in the campaign, he made decisions before the internal HDZ elections and then closed everything down afterwards. We had a memory column in Vukovar after which the virus contracted more than usual, and all of this in humans aroused suspicion. I don't know if this virus is working on some of these HDZ members who have now brought HDZ into an awkward situation and avoided Prime Minister Plenkovic's radar, is this virus doing even here a mutation of these people and then can't be controlled? Let me make a little joke. Unfortunately, censorship is everywhere, Facebook deletes members of people who suspect something, who argue in a different way than is expected of them. Unfortunately, the question arises whether we are implementing all our measures in a way to copy Western Europe, the older EU members, that some of our leaders are courting Brussels to benefit from it later? All these gentlemen of yours are the dilemmas outside. The flu isn't here this year, even though it's been here for decades. What I may not be able to figure out as an agent, I always read from scientists who have both reputations and knowledge, who are appreciated in society outside the Republic and try to see the situation that way because as one proverb says, if I knew what I don't know I'd be the smartest person in the world, but I'm never ashamed to read and ask someone who's smarter in some segments than me. One of the scientists I appreciate and love to read what he thinks about it is Miroslav Radman, the man who graduated from.... /. ... The PMF in Zagreb, doctored in Brussels, postgraduate in France and the United States, a regular professor of genetics at the University of Brussels, professor of cellular biology, head of the Laboratory for Evolutional and Molecular Biology. I think that man can talk a lot about this subject and that his opinion should be followed. Professor Radman said, as far as vaccines are concerned, and we've come into a situation where there are no vaccines for the second round of vaccinations of those who have been vaccinated, to prefer to choose a classic vaccine or even Chinese, because we have experience for 150 years. And he says that sometimes innovations are unnecessary, and when you have something that works, innovation just serves for commercial purposes. From this disappearance of the vaccine, it can be read that its price could also rise, and the safety of the vaccine is not yet confirmed by all the scientists who discuss it. The measures we have in place today, as far as wearing masks that are being discussed at scientific level, whether they are doing the purpose or not, many people wear masks for a month and these masks certainly don't protect as expected, so I would like to see here in front of this Assembly a scientific study of masking in the form of the prevention of coronary infection. We've closed down the economy, closed down the catering facilities where we're going to ruin a large part of the small caterers, craftsmen, and on the other hand we have trade chains where in line at 4.5 registers there are 50 people on each other without social distance. Of course, foreign trade chains. And that people suspect why one measure is supposed to be to prevent, and another measure that is far more dangerous is allowed for people to group in one place. The economy that we are so miserable, on the verge of collapse, these measures will make it even better to fail and I fear that many will irretrievably lose their business ability. Someone here also mentioned the tourist season. We're going in at the 2nd month. The tourist season prepares at the end of the year. As Secretary of State at the Ministry of Tourism, I know very well when it comes to the preparation of the tourist season, we are very late in this. We know how important tourism is to our business, to the state budget, to the employment of people. We're way too late on that. We send a message that it is insecure in Croatia and believe me that at the time of booking, which began a month ago safely, today when someone is asking in Croatia, it is certainly not a decision to come for a holiday in Croatia. I think that the profession could have developed more quality measures, that we could have kept the catering facilities open, that we could have given our economy more chances and that wouldn't have had a significant impact on the spread of the pandemic. As Professor Radman said, the coronaryvirus has created globalisation, and it will only stop him from reason, but try to save the economy in the Republic of Croatia with that reason and don't lead our citizens to psychological madness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30601	Here's before the sequel, one notice about today's work. After a statement on the amendments, we will discuss another item on the agenda. And that choice, appointment and resolution. We are going to an individual debate, the first distinguished representative is Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30602	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Implementation Report, a short term anti-covid measure, is actually a list of activities undertaken by the Government, the Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia, state bodies, units of local and regional (regional) self-government to protect the population from the present pandemic. Finally, we saw a list of 271 decisions made, but we would certainly like, after this broad debate, that the following reports actually respect all that you will hear today and what you have heard not only to be a list of what you have done but also to respect what we have said as a well-intentioned criticism. So here, at the beginning of this document, it says that the opinion and recommendations of epidemiological experts and scientists, both at national level and at county level, were primarily respected. However, the fact is, we have also witnessed this in the field, we have also listened to the example of Istria, Varazdin, Međimurje, that the advice and recommendations and the search for local headquarters were not fully respected, and sometimes the local headquarters themselves did not respect what the profession told them. Here's an example for the Medmurje, when we were crown-free county, for homes for older and powerless was important to be a sort of flexibility in the summer, but it wasn't, so I hope it will be appreciated in the future. Why were medical associations and opposition not heard and respected? Remember how many times we talked about both this speaker and the presses and announcements that we actually propose that measures that did not involve at all at that time shutting down economic activities but primarily that so-called. The traffic lights therefore know exactly which number of infected, where the rates go which measures, we have proposed more testing, early introduction of online teaching in primary and secondary schools. I personally sent a memo to the local headquarters for half a month, but here's an online course that actually took place after a month, so we think online teaching should have been introduced before. There is an interesting sentence, in areas where it was delayed by the introduction of appropriate epidemiological measures or not consistently implemented, an exponential increase in the number of cases was observed. It surprised me very pleasantly, and I thought, if you see the self-criticity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but it was written in the introduction, so somehow I think it wasn't about our government, but in general, but as I said, I hope they'll accept all this we tell them well-meaningly. It is commendable that the Scientific Council was formed, however, we have witnessed different views of scientists in the media, so we have had the appeal of 26 experts and scientists to the government to listen to the advice of professions and sciences, so thanks to the Government to scientists, practically almost getting kicked out of the council, etc. And as far as I know, directly from some members of the Council, they haven't received any records, I hope that's right. Health professionals were mobilized, the health system had to be reorganised, everyone was participating in maintaining the functioning of the health system. Mr. Minister knows very well that the entire health system has been adapted to new conditions, healthcare professionals, especially non-infectologists who, of course, do not have enough and who have mostly been participated and are still participating in the work of covid departments, interns, engineers were forced to quickly educate, acquire new knowledge and skills. And the minister must be aware of the confusion and injustice his decision to covid reward for only those in the covid building units because many employees, we have already talked about, have not received anything in hospitals, emergency services, family medicine hospitals. Don't they really deserve any covid reward? I put an emphasis here on the express engagement of healthcare professionals to get as many patients as possible by means of telecommunications, mail, A5 instructions, etc., so that despite their engagement there was a drop of 20 to 60% in the number of reviews in most environments, and where the patient had to be diagnosed over 80% and the question of how all of this would be compensated together. As for monitoring the isolation of contacts, you yourself said that the system was a little near and it fell apart so that students of medicine and young doctors who helped epidemiologists had to be introduced earlier. And in the end, I'd like it to be a cost-effective analysis, exactly for the record, this much cost of tests, this much respirators, this much economic measures, and we don't have to add them all up on foot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30603	Time. We have two replicas. First, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. You're a little out of practice. I will remind you of the measures the SDP has advocated, for measures to make the mornings more restrictive, and in the afternoon you were very concerned about human rights. As for the traffic lights you keep talking about, I'll tell you that the traffic light only has the same colors at EU level, meaning green, orange and red. There was an agreement that the red color would be 50 per 100,000 in two weeks, the Robert Koch Institute said in a week, so each country has a different interpretation of the corona trafficaphora, so that everything you say and the question of testing, the advocacy of what Slovakia did that didn't exactly give some obvious results to me is throwing sand into the eyes of the public, and the public had trust in both the headquarters and all those measures is not like my colleague Tomašević said three out of ten but three out of five. Look at the 20th poll. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30605	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30606	Thank you very much. You've listed a lot. First, I won't agree with you, we've never really been credible in proposing measures, I don't know when you heard me, and I've been very involved in the very emphasis that should be done, no one has said now this afternoon what. So you couldn't listen to us pleading at the very beginning to take economic action or to limit economic activity. As far as traffic lights are concerned, so the traffic lights are one general concept that may in some way work. In Germany, Croatia would have something else, let's understand it a little more in general, so Croatia should have made its programme based on its data, its rates of incidence, 7 weeks, 14 weeks. Let Germany aside. As for antigen testing, you can see for yourself in this report that when home testing started, 7% and 8% of employees and home users themselves are not small, and even companies are not 3% low. You know what 3 people infected in one company mean so they can quickly infect others. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30607	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30608	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Now here's just the last thing you said, how much does three per thousand mean, and before, a colleague said it was very little when it came to Varazdin County, when they were tested in the industry. So that's where the same problems are supposed to be done, and you need to take care of everyone, not just some sectors. But I wanted to say, you mentioned teaching at a distance, even commended in part, but I think you should especially praise the quick reaction in which the way the classes were organised through TV through HRT 3 and how we quickly adapted, and I think it's one of the best and greatest praises to the government and the headquarters that the children remained in trend and continued to study and finished their classes in that school year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30609	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30610	Thank you very much. I have to correct you, you said three to the thousand, it's not three to the thousand, it's three to the table, so it was three percent, and it's how you just said in homes seven to eight percent, which is not negligible, and we can't really reject that measure. As far as online teaching is concerned, I said so in the replica of Mr. Minister's specific data, meaning from 23.11. when it was really possible to start online teaching until 21.12, so in those 4 weeks there were 90,000 new people, 1859 dead. So we should have started earlier, the mechanisms we have, so we already have some experience of how that online teaching and teaching were conducted, so I think we'll all agree that health is no. 1 and that no matter how much live teaching has the advantage that these extra 4 weeks would certainly help maybe to calm this pandemic down a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30611	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30612	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. If anyone, I repeat it one more time, has a magic wand, I'm sure they'd use it. Likewise, in our discussion of the report on the effects of the measure, we try to be reasonable and try to be realistic. What I said and, on behalf of the club, I would like to see from this report, perhaps, as far away as possible, what, so all the experiences we have to take advantage of, but unfortunately we don't see it, and I will use this debate and talk exclusively about the problem of children and sports. So, what we have a chance to read in this with forgiveness I am an architect and I am not a parliamentary representative of general practice that I understand in everything but I am speaking on the basis of what I have the opportunity to read, what I have the opportunity to ask, with someone to consult, so it turns out that when the school closed, it was really significantly less infected, or it was seen with one step away because apparently the children brought home and passed it on not only to their parents and grandparents, and certainly the measure of online teaching had an effect and had one effect on the health of people who had priority. But on the other hand, what we don't see right now, and what we're sure to see in the future is that for kids in the last 2 years, first the kids had a strike and didn't go to school, I'm talking about kids in elementary schools and high schools, and behind that we were in lockdown this spring, all of us didn't go to school, and now someone's a little going a little bit isn't going to go. I listen to young people who are around me and who have kids who go to school and who say about the following, says all right, he or she does classes, I come home if she's not from home work says find her or says he's all done or done for school, but at 5 p.m. in pajamas unwashed teeth, and in front of anyone who controls the flight phone, laptop, everything. That's for sure, I don't understand it, nor do I imagine that I understand myself, cause any other consequences, and we already have to take care of it. Imagine the child who started in the 5th grade, we all know that the 5th grade is a major change from the 4th grade and that it was online continuing all the time, so all the consequences of this situation that was for the crown where really health priority is going to continue. I'll get to the sport, sport is extremely important not only in growing up, not just that sport you have, so I'm here to distinguish the sport that, where there has to be a big base, where you have to have a top-notch sport in primary and high school. So it's extremely important that these girls and boys from the earliest age really develop in sports. In sports, you learn relationships, learn something good, and really have health consequences. So I've asked the minister here on several occasions, and every time I say let me know if someone throws the ball, so that throws the ball out in the open, it's not a top athlete, and it's just the relationship between him or her and the coach. I always mentioned sailing because it's something that I'm really close to and spring, there was a nice time and the kids could go out, now that it was a bad time really. Besides, you know, they're all a little lazy, so they don't get it, and it's gonna have the same effect. And for the end, I have to mention top-notch sports. The Olympic year, last year or last year's Olympics, was not in Japan, this year will be the 7th, or I think the date is already known that no, I don't want to use this pay phone to say something wrong. What needs to be taken care of now, split up the athletes. We've really invested a lot of money in top athletes, they're the top of their careers. None of them should be allowed, so to be brought to Japan, and he is there if he comes and has a crown, all of his four or eight years have failed. The past. At this point, it's a request from individual alliances, which according to the former secretary of state, which according to the HoO to organize now to split up athletes that we're sure they'll get there healthy, that they can To do what they've been preparing for for years. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30613	Replicated representative Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30614	Dear counterparts Mrak-Taritash, the results of the introduction of the current measures show that the restrictive reduction of social contact reduces the spread of infection among citizens. But I also find it justified to see the economics growing concern for their business future, as well as for all citizens and their activities, especially the children you mentioned in your presentation. Clear information on the way and dynamics of respecting measures would certainly reduce their sense of uncertainty. Strategic thinking, and timely and open communication with them should be the basic guidelines for the continued work of civil protection headquarters. The Czech example of the host’s reaction to bad communication should first be an indication of the importance of this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30615	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30616	Thank you very much. If it isn't easy, if it's just not, you need to look around, you need to watch what other countries are doing. What is acceptable for Croatia may not be acceptable for another country, but to use the experiences of others, to use what I get from these speakers which, therefore, if you have businessmen and they point to something why you do not listen to them. We do not listen all the time to those whom these measures apply and to whom we bring them. It's almost almost now so a year somewhere in February was the first infected in Croatia to, apropo my debates got infected at a football game, if Dinamo had played better he wouldn't have gone there to the football game, but it's a joke and there's no really just a joke. So, see, look, listen and the result of this report, I was expecting you to say, I have no problem and no one should have had there we were wrong we should like this or experiences are like this, so Our debate sees that it's easier for us, that it's easier for us [[Intruder: Time.]] Better. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30617	One replica, esteemed representative Ivan Celić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Honorable Representative Mr. Taritash, the prime minister said that today is the time for one signal of optimism so that this discounting of measures applies amongst others to this part, so sports activities mainly in the open area. You mentioned the issue of top sports, I'll just tell you that in the water polo team it's enough for a water polo player to be a positive eliminates the whole team, and we know how important top sport is to promote a small country like Croatia. That depends, therefore, on what the HZJZ epidemiologists are going to think about from several aspects, but I'll tell you the same question, so that's why it's started by the Czech Navy, we know that maritime traffic is specific that it's not road or air traffic, so when an epidemic occurs on board, then a third of the crew can be if it's infected there's a problem. So there are still a lot of questions, but I believe that the vaccine will still give some more favourable answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30619	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30620	Well, thank you very much, there are a lot of questions, but if we already know the questions today, and we also know that we can give some answers why we don't do it right now. So, we're already in February, athletes are getting ready for the Olympics, they're having this, I've been discussing it, it's the highlight of their sports career, and you're right when a team, one on the team, one on the team, one on the team is going to be disqualified, that's what we can't afford. So it's not just about the big money we've invested, it's about a series of other things. So the message that should be, which should also be Minister Beros and headquarters, insist at this point, we have the Ministry of Sports that we didn't have, we have epidemiologists, we have the whole situation, so we have the Croatian Olympic Committee to split up athletes. We watched all the World Handball Championships still going on, one of our top athletes had Covid in the 12th month he went to us. play the world championship, and I'm sure the result would be better if they were healthy. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30621	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30622	Dear Vice President, I would first of all thank all our medical staff, all our hospital institutions because these people have indeed done so far, and will certainly do in the time that is ahead of us by doing a huge job of doing everything we can, risking our own health, risking our own lives, and indeed in this situation it is best to show how important our health system is to us. I must also say that Minister Beroš, in that first wave of fight against the crown of the virus, was indeed one of the porters of hope for a better Croatia, Croatia, who will be facing the profession and who will know at any moment clearly and duly meet the challenges that modern times bring to us by this health crisis, which certainly none of us expected in our wildest dreams. But then it happened to us and a switch did not merit or blame the minister because someone simply decided in May to declare himself a winner over the crown because it was probably convenient and opportunized to call the election and start the campaign and it happened after the summer situation that we could expect by following other countries around us that it would happen to us, but we probably thought maybe we'd get lucky again. First of all, I am sorry that someone has used our headquarters's good work for political instrumentalisation to facilitate his victory in the election, by a) that he has taken over politicisation over the work of the profession, under b) he has given citizens a fat, premature hope. After that, we enter the spiral of various interpretations, which is for self-insulation at all, which is not for self-insulation, so we have a situation where someone who paints prime minister with Novak Djokovic ends up in self-insulation, the prime minister does not end up in self-insulation and many would list a dozen other situations where it really was unclear where the waist coordinated it, and where politics itself was behind it. Of course, in that new wave, we also experienced the potential shooting of our health system, but more importantly, a thread, one dissatisfaction among citizens and among economic operators. It is mentioned today that to make a scoreboard, it is not the main thought of everything having a scoreboard, but we all ask ourselves a question together, would it not be easier for our schoolboys, of course, both parents and our economy, to all those micro-entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen, whom prominent economic analysts say is that the question of whether they will continue to stretch this lockdown, to know what numbers they can expect under a) some kind of closure, under b) some kind of opening and continuation of their economic activity or their educational path. Could faith in the system be increased, would it perhaps make it easier for all of these people to function daily, daily education? The figures are exact, very easy to calculate because it has proved that we have enough professional people to be able to handle the Croatian health system, which can be handled by the Croatian economy. And probably after that, we could start a debate like we need reform and our health system because surely that the profession saw in this crisis even better which things we can do differently, what we need public administration reform and tax policy because now everyone slowly but surely admits that we're just not agreed on, we haven't figured out what kind of letters will be, will be L, will be K, will be V, but we'll also know what month and then we'd finally know what our ultimate strategy is that we're willing to pay in battle with the crown because unfortunately a lot of bad examples happened to us, a lot of things went somehow under the radar. For the end, I'll just take the opportunity where Koprivnica was a good example, it's a breakthrough of the crown in the homes of the elderly and the powerless, we know today that in the Republic of Croatia we have a bunch of illegal and illegal homes for the old and the powerless, but we haven't heard that in any word we have a solution, we'll solve it in the future like this. And what was most parodic in that coprivnica home, that, as a result of all the ministers in which it was, today is no longer a minister, she did not find it appropriate to visit that home, she did not find it appropriate to see together how we could solve the huge crisis that was created there, but three, four days after the eruption of the crisis she had time to go to the film show "Beautiful Ours" in the same county 20 km away from Koprivnica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30623	We have several replicas, stay, two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Predrag Štromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30624	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. Samafor, I have to admit, when we started talking about it in public so that it would be good to determine when, how many infected what it would be to know everything in advance, I was totally into it, but very soon I realized that maybe it wasn't so smart. People will expect it when it falls below 500 infected per day to 24 hours then it means what you promised you must give. But we didn't think about mutations, new strains, new dangers where maybe today and 200 people can come from a more dangerous strain that's developing much more where we're going to immediately come to 600 or 700 and then for two, three days it's just going to be open cafes. So I still support this whole thinking right now and that we don't have to give false hopes, and then cheat people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30625	Well, I agree with you absolutely that it's not good to give false hopes because speaking of false hopes, we beat the crown, and then we found out that we didn't. But what I really believe, and Minister Berosch, is that they have an analysis every day, that they have numbers, so, and now these measures aren't coming out of someone's finger, and I personally don't think anything dramatic would happen to the public finally being familiar, these are some Targets, we want to reach out, and that's where we're going. Of course, any new strain, especially a more dangerous strain, can make new moments, but if we are to communicate in a transparent manner what figures we can bear and what numbers we want to have, then I believe that the public will make it easier to accept some decisions that they always make and a certain amount of unpopularity that we have the opportunity to see with the hosts. Of course, when people really don't know what they can expect, as long as they have to do so, as long as the power receives the means to be nervous and to announce potential protests, it's all human.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30626	Thank you. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30627	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. In your presentation, you pointed out one important thing that we've already said here, and that's thanks to healthcare professionals who really gave a great pain in the fight against this pandemic, and I don't think there was any enthusiasm and huge engagement, I think the health system would literally collapse. You also mentioned an important item, which is a breakthrough of the virus into illegal homes, where you open a big story that we're not going to stop at, and I think that the resolution ministry will have to deal with these problems. And finally, this traffic lights we're always talking about that we shouldn't literally take a traffic light as a traffic light, but just adapting measures to certain environments, so I'm just wondering if your local headquarters has been talking to any of their demands to the national headquarters, and is there a plan now in view of its situation to address the headquarters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30628	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30629	As a local headquarters, we have constant communication with the national headquarters and, of course, sometimes these answers are both quick and quick to come to the final solution, and sometimes it is still falling apart because unfortunately what I said at the beginning of my debate, it seems like a lot of politics is emerging. And I'll agree absolutely with you that the health system and all those who do it really rightly got that heroic epithet and indeed one great round of applause that got people and on the open stage in Zagreb when we were all locked up, indeed the minister and his associates were ahead of the profession competition in this debate, which was very important since I don't think we know what we're up against today or how to fight. But unfortunately, the moment victory over the crown was declared, when someone decided to take that sceptre of battle against the crown, we put in that policy, we came to these numbers, and now we go up and down, up and down as politics at a given time fits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30630	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Davor Dretar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30631	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. Let me read you a few lines from a nurse's letter. "Yesterday on the ground floor, life was lost by the youngest member of the covid family of positive patients. His whole family was in front of the department, she was patient and waiting, probably told that it was bad and that she was preparing for the worst. Everyone came, cried, cheered, shouted "Don't give up" and fought, indeed it is. The sound of the respirator alarm was heard for a long time, the resuscitation must have lasted for an hour. Anyone who's resuscitated once in their life for at least a few minutes knows what an hour of resuscitation means. The staff did their best. We can't imagine, and we all know we're talking about the case of an 11-year-old boy who died, which means for the last time to say goodbye to his child." In his letter, this nurse writes and expresses her deepest condolences to the family of the deceased child, but I would like to read from her letter one more time to express a great support and a great affection for all people in the medical system of the Republic of Croatia, but once again just remind them that they have been wrongly attacked for so-called ‘. ’ ‘Covid feste’. I'll go back to the letter of a respected nurse, no one will pay for any nurse who's been working with Covid positive patients hasn't hugged and kissed her own child since March because she works with the infected every day. No one's gonna pay medical staff who got infected at work because it's all on time. Nurses, unfortunately only because of one single event were named as entertainers and coffee drinkers. That's not true. They're always there, just tell me, please, when you're at any point, and I don't think any of us here have ever been to the hospital, who did you ask for when you needed anything? Who came to your aid first? There's a nurse. I will no longer read this letter to you because it has more than 5 pages, but it speaks of the difficult position of medical staff in Croatia, from the basic, from nurses, technicians, to all those involved in the struggle with this incredible horror that has struck, not only our country, but the whole world. Global civilization is reversed, only in a few decades will we figure out how much. I'd like to ask one thing from this place and all of you to support it. Can we possibly change a law in which we will give our medical staff involved in the fight against Covida-19 during which we will define the benefits of a job, to admit to them that they have done a fantastic and magnificent job, for all of us, for our families, for our friends, for our children, for our mothers, for our grandparents, for our grandfathers? Some, behold, and went to another world, the will was some higher entity we can't call here for a pay phone, but we can invite all of us, and I'm sure that the initiative that I will personally launch will come upon the support of all of you, that all medical personnel involved in the fight against Covida-19 during the fight against the pandemic will be recognised as an unfettered internship. I think the Honorable Mr. Secretary will also support that decision. Thank you very much and once again on the front line of the fight against Covid if I had a hat now, I'd say, cap down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30632	Stay, stay. You have a replica. The first replica has Mr. Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30633	Your Honor. First of all, the pain of a child's parents is immeasurable. I believe, as the parent of all of us MPs, no matter what political group we are. Let's not allow it, but surely all of our nurses, doctors, are going through one period, maybe we can't compare it to the Homeland War, I believe, I don't know if you were part of the Homeland War, so I apologize, but it's very difficult. But let's not let Activism go beyond family dignity, pain, and this time where we're all at, I beg you, honestly, let's not do radio shows from a pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30634	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30635	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I sincerely hope that you did not take this as a political activism, I only initially wanted to highlight the pain of a family who lost their child, there was not one moment and I hope that neither you, colleagues and colleagues nor the Croatian public understood this as fireworks before any conclusion. We share deep pain with each deceased and we share with all families who have lost someone in equal grief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30636	Thank you, too. And now she's a lady. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30637	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. An esteemed colleague, therefore each of us speaks in a different way, each of us also experienced the subject of Covid or Corone in a different way, but there is something that is a fact. That the first ones to defend against such a crown 19 are health workers. We continue to face the fact that healthcare professionals are leaving Croatia. They go looking, of course, where they will get more and therefore, any appeal or any action that can be helped is welcome. But let me just remind you of everything together. The theme of self-insulation when she left. Health professionals had to go into self-insulation because it was an option to get infected at work. To be able to get 100% sick, they had to prove they got infected at work, and that was something that just left an ugly picture of it, it shouldn't have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30638	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30639	Your Honor, ma'am. Dark-Taritash, thank you very much. The only thing I can say and what we all have to worry about is that this video, the video, whatever it's titled it, came from the fact that a nurse went to Germany, that's where I'd stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30640	Mr. Lenart's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30641	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's my colleague Dretar, I'm joining your initiative on the certified staff staff who participated in the treatment of covid directly. And he would refer to this video that came into existence, and unfortunately our networks allow everyone to place anything in public, but I don't think we should blame those people who are on the front line who have found one moment where they're a little relaxed. I must remind you all that many of us, and many of us outside this assembly, mean Croatian citizens often relax and violate the measures of civil protection headquarters, and sometimes forget to do so themselves and resent people to whom such a break has meant a great deal to their psyche and to all the pressures they experience in the treatment of covids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30642	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30643	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In such an extremely stressful situation where medical personnel have to face the loss of human life almost daily. It's clear to all of us that it's very, very, very stressful. Here is my representative, Mr. Stipo Mlinarić, as the esteemed representative Deur said we were at war, we weren't at war, it doesn't matter who was where he was, the fact is that the death of a family member or death of a patient is the same as death of a fellow fighter or injury is an extremely stressful situation. And we haven't faced much less, Mr. Deur, Mr. Mlinarić and the defenders significantly more with the process in which they had to process such things, the death or the wounding of their comrades, and of course, the most common thing is that human psychology and speech went towards joy. So let's not blame these people. Thank you, Reverend Lenart, for your support. And I believe we will all reach consensus together. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30644	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. And now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30645	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing today a report by the Government on the effects of implementing measures stemming from the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Contagious Diseases for the past 11 or 11 months. In these 11 months there were several obstacles and different approaches in Croatian society, as well as in HS. One of them who has been here for a long time in the Croatian Parliament has been moving primarily from the ranks of the opposition is this constitutional legal framework on which the foundation of the civil protection headquarters works in accordance with the constitution or not? Are the measures brought by the assembly in proportion to the threat that lies ahead, which is based on the coronary virus epidemic in Croatia or are disproportionate, and then not in accordance with the constitution? I am pleased that the constitutional court has made the decisions clearly and thus said by those who are legalists in Croatia and respect the decisions of the constitutional court put aside. So, headquarters absolutely works according to the constitution. The second question was whether measures were affected in a professional sense, were they, would they protect us as a society, would our health be protected by such measures as the headquarters and the ministry brought? I also think that the measures that are the current situation in Croatia have shown that they are behind us, and I hope that I will not bite my tongue, both first and second wave that hit Croatia. Today, I've been watching it there because I've been keeping and keeping records of the first day and the number of patients and the number of dead and the number of hospitalized and the number of those who are on the respirator, today, when I'm saying that we are, and I hope I'm right, but I wouldn't want to be an evil deaf prophet, that at the end of that second wave or at the end of that second wave, we're by the numbers with 130 people on the respirator and about 1300 hospitalized somewhere in half of October when we said that winter we were expected to have this second wave, we were right to say, but apparently the measures that I said that the headquarters had brought them in accordance with the constitution that they were also professionally affected. And thirdly, to return the hour, the moment to, on, on this part, there were those who said that we would have ten thousand people a day, which thank God didn't happen. The third question in Croatian society said that at the end of the first or second wave of crowns in Croatia would still be 400,000 unemployed. Well, I'm saying, and it doesn't really matter what I'm saying is what the official record says, we're three times today, three times less unemployed than those same evil deaf prophets who talked about the number of unemployed because of ignorance, intricacy, political, not professional staff decisions. So today we are where we are with about 155-160,000 unemployed in Croatia. And to achieve this, we have balanced measures to preserve health, but on the other hand, and to preserve the economy and, besides, in the last year, we have allocated about 8.5 billion kuna to preserve jobs, preserve the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurs and their business activities with more than 110,000 entrepreneurs and for 600,000 workers in these companies. By the way, this year, we'll already have a budget of 2.2 billion, and for, from New Year's, about 450 million kuna has been paid to date. I hear because I'm already at the end, so I have to finish slowly, from the ranks of the opposition, just before colleague Jaksic, I'm not sorry, I think Mr. Lenart said that politics took over the profession. That's it, that's what's always going through. If the measures of headquarters are as political as you imply, then it's a successful policy. If they are not political then they are professional, so be sure whether they are political, but then praise the politics because today it is what it is, we are among the better countries of Europe today or they are professional, but then you are wrong then politics in Croatia respects strike Thus, both situations are not in your favor. [[Intruder: Thank you]] There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30646	You have a lot of replicas, so you'll be able to continue the debate I'm sure of. Mr. Boric has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30647	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bačić, just over 40 days ago, in particular 10.11., 10.12., we had a discussion about the government's interpretation of the health system's readiness. It was one of the painful debates and the bile ones, it lasted deep into the night. We heard the worst in Europe then, a morgue full of, let's replace the minister, replace the headquarters, let the government resign, we've heard everything from the other side. Today after 40 days, another story. Now it's no longer the problem if we're the worst because they see we haven't, we haven't been and what now? Now a detail needs to be found again that would bother them, and this should be discussed. Now you've nice enough to warn them to make up their minds. And now my question is, should we continue to believe in these people from day one who are there, who know very well what they're doing, whether we should underestimate ourselves and say that we are the worst so that we can all have some opportunities to talk to ourselves, or should we continue that day-to-day policy story from today to tomorrow, traffic lights? So let's be nice and open up all the cafes like they say? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30648	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30649	I thank my colleague, Boric. From the first day I claim that health protection is in the interest of all Croatian citizens, I believe all Croatian politicians, whether they come from one or the other side of the political spectrum, and I hold that there is no need to, should not be politicised. Of course there have to be different opinions, we can't all think the same thing because when everyone thinks the same thing, nobody usually thinks the same thing. But also when you have a different opinion if reality, after a certain time, deny it, should be acknowledged. We, we have talked about this, about this problem, about measures either for the preservation of health or for the preservation of the Croatian economy many times in HS. Therefore, it was an opportunity to make these proposals, but concrete proposals aside from remarks, concrete proposals I must say, even when no amendments to the law were heard, and it was good that they were, I would probably consider them and adopt them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30650	Mrs. Devereaux. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bačić, I am pleased that you pointed out that the main motive and goal was to manage this whole crisis primarily to protect the health and life of our citizens, and beyond that, to the extent that it is possible for the economy to feel the consequences of the measures that had to be taken to protect human health. However, I would say that I am saddened that even at the time of the debate, as my colleague Boric said about the interpretation, and also when we were bringing amendments to the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases by the opposition, we had to say excessive shelling or we could not hear constructive criticisms about the work of the headquarters in the management of the crisis rather than say that the measures are being adopted in a verse, that the results are poor, worst, and today when the results and measures that have shown in fact what they are today have silenced it. I think all of us should send the right message to the public, and that's what was well done, and what was not right should be sought out constructive answers and solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30652	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30653	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac. I agree with you, that's me, that's what I'm on, and just now, my colleague Boric answered. Today, what's behind us is we can look at it one way or the other, history can't, the past can't change. What is important is I expect that from this debate that is here, which we are discussing today, we contribute to the Minister and the Staff that with concrete constructive proposals we do everything possible to make time that is ahead of us when it comes to the epidemic, when it comes to pandemics, for Croatians and Croatian states as well as I am convinced that these today's measures which, in some ways, represent relaxation when it comes to schools and when it comes to sports activities, will be just one of the steps ahead of us. I am afraid of the sudden opening or firing of certain measures so that what is happening to us in the developed countries that are in our neighborhood and that we want to measure ourselves with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30654	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30655	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, in your debate you mentioned the number of unemployed, you talked about the measures the government is taking and what it achieves. So I would add and remind our Croatian citizens a little, given that we had as many employees and unemployed as we had on February 29th last year 1.5 million insurance companies, and then on October 15th, and we know what kind of tourist season we had and the like, we had 3,210 insurance companies more than it was in February last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30656	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30657	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Jurichev-Martinchev. Yes, I said that it was a credit that we knew ourselves, that we knew the measures to coordinate on one side in order to protect our citizens, but on the other hand we took care of the economy, so thanks to these measures that we had been able to keep health in the season that we had maybe one of the best tourist seasons in the Mediterranean, and on the other hand we took measures to help entrepreneurs to preserve jobs, not to fire people, to care about the social status of our fellow citizens, therefore, I hold that this job has been done correctly for us, but I am saying, now it is even more challenging for us because we see what is happening to some new strains in our environment, which is happening to some new third waves, too, in this same environment, and now we need to be smart not to do what we do well, now when time is very challenging in front of us to cancel it out in a certain way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30658	Thank you very much. Mr. Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30659	Dear colleague Bačić, you may not hear constructive suggestions because you do not want to hear them, and you must have heard your minister say that masks are not needed, that masks serve nothing, so after that today we wear masks. I'm sure you heard from your minister the other day when he admitted that the funds for the preservation of jobs for the 11th month. They have not yet been paid, and when you talk about the 8 billion kunas this government has given to the Croatian economy, then it should be said that the 8 billion kuna has been given to the government by the EU. That.../incomprehensible/... say that for this speaker because it's true. And then we can talk openly and correctly about what and how we can continue to help each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30660	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30661	I thank my colleague Brumnic. I haven't heard anything concrete now, if I'm not mistaken. You didn't say anything specifically now that you've replicated to me. You were just trying to challenge something that I'm saying was good. As for the masks, as for the minister's position, I think their work done is saying they were right. This is one virus, one disease that has not been faced with the world so far, and in the beginning, not only us, but also the countries that you have warned us about should be an example of how to act, today much, much worse, and they have more arranged systems and perhaps a safe and health system, so we are counting worse data than Croatia does. Therefore, despite the fact that there was one, a new disease that we were not familiar with, I hold that Croatia is like a state and Government and Staff [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Excellent answer. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30662	We have a breach of Mr. Brumnic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30663	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, an officer has been injured. 238. My colleague Bačić is not sticking to the subject today, but for the second time in this pay phone he says the lies. These countries that are referred to, I went to look at the data, only at a 14-day interval have a 0.02% lower score than we do, in all other parameters they're more than twice as good as we are. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30664	Thank you. Uh, from what I understand, Mr. Bacic said that you didn't replicate because you didn't ask him a question, and you told him that he wasn't sticking to the subject so we'd go on and pretend that nothing happened. And it's Mrs. Gossipman's turn. Maja coat of arms Bujević. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Joseph Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30665	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Bačić, the constitutionality of the decisions and the adequateness of the measures taken by the National Civil Protection Centre in connection with Covid, which also confirms the current state of the sick, on the one hand. However, this also confirms the economic situation. On the other hand, where the government has been determined to help the economy with its resources. Now, if all of this is known, I'm interested in this opposition effort, do they actually have any other purpose, not taking care of our citizens and not taking care of our country's economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30666	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30667	Thank you. Comrade Begonj, yes, you're right. But to confirm what I was already saying, and what I replied to by my colleague Brumnić, who tried to correct me, but can't correct me because he's not correcting me, he's correcting official data, when it comes to the total number of patients and deaths at EU level, we're at 5, by the number of people who died at 7. When it comes to what he said, a 7-day review from last week, then we are 23, so there are only 4 countries, 3 countries behind us, 4 countries behind us, and when it comes to the number of deaths we are in 19th place, therefore, my colleague Brumnic, I think these data is talking about how much countries, which I claim are arranged, democratic, with great health systems, are worse than we are. I'll give you this information very gladly, here, when this debate is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30668	Thank you. It's Mrs. Now. The coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30669	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague Bačić, from what you've actually said, has been a source of people's confidence in the work of the Staff, as well as the decisions made by the Staff, so here we would remind everyone once again that a month ago, when our results were really worse, much, much, much more than today, that 68% of Croatian citizens believed in the decisions of the Staff and considered the Staff to be doing well. In view of this, I think that these results would be much better today, so here, perhaps a little comment or as a reminder of the Croatian people's belief in what the Staff is doing and thus what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30670	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30671	I would like to thank my colleagues, Mr. Grba-Bujevic. As far as I'm concerned, trust in the work in the headquarters is independent of the number of hospitalized or sick in Croatia. I was convinced that we have always done so with the best intention, first of all, to protect the basic purpose, which is the health of our citizens, but also to enable us to clearly, the greater the number of Croatian employees and workers to be in the system, for the sake of doing, contribute to the development of the state. And even then, when we discussed the epidemic or pandemic in just 2, 3 days three times in HS, and then we knew that the measures that we had prescribed then and that we had brought, that this result would get, so here, that's what we can witness today, and I'm saying, it's only now that we have a challenge because they see that there are desires that these measures are still relaxing, and I think that we need to be very careful not to repeat what happened a month and a half ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30672	Mr. Lenart, the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30673	Mr. Honorable Vice President. Col. Bacic, do you think that after Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic declared HDZ's victory over the coronary virus after all that was happening, after the figures we had in recent months, that the public still believes that the decisions of the National Civil Protection Staff have not been politicised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30674	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30675	Comrade Lenart, it would be good if you and I were saying, that our views, as far as possible, are based on some data and facts, so I'm all I'm telling you based on or on data from a public opinion survey or based on official data from the European WHO, and then I'm doing that and I'm saying that too. Winning, as you said, not HDZ but Croatia on, in the first wave, and I believe that now slowly by reducing these figures we can say that we can prepare ourselves for new challenges, saying that we have acted well. If we've done the right thing, and you claim it's policy-making, then be correct and admit it's a good policy. Well, that's what I wanted, that's what I said, if, if the Staff implements political decisions, then it's a successful policy, and if they're professional, then it means the government did the right thing. when she leaned on the profession and on the Command. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30676	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30677	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let's say the position is true, the Chief of Staff is a political body. Here, dear colleague Bujevic just said it was a professional body. A political body that respected only political decisions, depending on the stages, whether elections, pre-elections, are not elections, however, I would not talk about it now. I would now ask the minister, and I believe he will give answers to several questions and findings, we were talking about Covid's employee allowance. However, I will ask you a question for what. In Kninska hospital, General Veteran Hospital Hrvatski pride, no travel expenses are paid to employees and employees 7, 8, 6 months, is now the 7th month, which travels a hundred kilometers from Sinj, Split, Drnište, Sibenik and what you have taken on this issue, because the city of Knin is the only hospital, you know it in Dalmatia, which could charge both the Sibenik hospital and the Split hospital and, of course, our people in Herzegovina who could use the facilities of the Knin hospital with the resolution of additional facilities within the hospital that has these facilities. Can you answer me and know the reasons? Don't just tell me it's the founder's fault. These women travel daily, I repeat, seven months have not received travel expenses. They travel a hundred miles in one direction and in another direction. I know that about my Signan girls, but they say, who travel to Knin, that's 150 kilometers a day, plus, I know others don't take travel expenses. So is it concern and concern for healthcare professionals in the area where the tribals should stay, where they should essentially invite people and experts to come work in that hospital? In fact, we've been put in a position that these people don't literally have their bread for neither gasoline nor fuel, and we know that public transportation isn't exactly according to Knin's best organized, in terms where doctors need to come from these remote cities of Dalmatia to Knin. This is one of the key questions, I think it is embarrassing that when we talk about Knin, mainly in the days of Storm, when we celebrate the magnificent victory of the Croatian soldier and who is named Croatian pride because the city of Knin is Croatian pride. That is why I expect here and from my colleagues from the 9th constituency, Drniš Mayor and counterpart Branko Jurič, to look at what these reasons are and what it is that Spider, Dujic and the team are actually doing, obviously doing more humanizing in the Krka National Park than dealing with the health problem of these employees because it is sad and embarrassing that these women today cannot pay for their gasoline, they can't come up and work daily. At first, I asked a question of illogicality. At the gas stations, you answered me, but I don't understand, at the gas stations, in certain places in all cities we have hundreds of people very small space, they are out there, but the flaws are this, the spaces, there's drinking coffee, talk, talk, while the cafes are closed. It's a huge attack on hospitality and I don't see the logic. So it's a good parallel. Let's say from Sinj to the border with BiH is close. The cafes are open there, people are functioning normally, they're closed here, and we don't see any differences in the figures in BiH in this area and here, can you explain why? Which is why I would like to invite you to weaken this measure, to allow visitors and tourism workers to deal with their work, of course respect for all epidemiological measures, because the fact that in the number of major centres, shopping centres, they are much more crowded, shoes are bought, bought, every breakthrough, whatever they do, people work there. So it would be time for you to dissipate those people, it's my assessment, this laity-watching places where people drink and find themselves. And even in the end I would just say what's in the sport,.../incomprehensible/ why in sports I can train kids somewhere, somewhere I can't and of course I expect answers from you about the damaged employees in the hospital... in Knin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30678	Now it's Mr. Angelko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30679	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, our country is currently in the most challenging time since the Homeland War. We are currently fighting a battle with three security challenges. One of them is an epidemic of the coronary virus then continuously present since 2015, the migrant crisis and the third, the consequences of two devastating earthquakes. If we're talking about all these challenges and threats, I really don't know which other state is facing so many challenges and threats right now. And with all these challenges and threats, I think our institutions, our services, our societies are doing well. Not that well, but I even think it's very good. If we talk about earthquakes, the first one happened in the beginning of the spring last year, Zagreb, Zagreb County and Krapina-Zagorje, the damage is measured in billions. A month ago, a new earthquake of Sisak-Moslavina County with seven human lives, a major material damage again in billions. Since 2015, our officers have kept not only the Croatian border but also the European border, only in 2015 have passed through Croatia or tried to cross which 700,000 migrants, and now imagine that these 700,000 migrants remain on this side of the Schengen border. Any 6th resident would be a migrant. For our society, it would be a devastating congratulation to the Croatian police that safety is indeed on one sight, enviable level and that we can discuss this beautifully today. And the third security threat and the challenge is an epidemic of the coronary virus that the whole world is struggling with. At first, I think it might be a good idea to introduce measures, to lower the criteria to the county level, to have a little county competition that will fight better, but then, when you think about it, we can almost pass each of our county in an hour's drive. Would there be so many interrogations? Would some populists, too, like to lower the number of their patients a little? And in the end, where would all this lead us? I therefore believe that all measures were timely and appropriate, and among other things, we have more liberal measures, with the best results if we look at EU members. And nobody killed that here today. So, not to be too long, it's been said a lot and there's also a lot of respected fellow MPs and MPs reported for discussion, congratulations and officers, soldiers, doctors, nurses, firefighters, the Red Cross, the HGSS, inspectorate, customs, means everyone involved in the fight against all of our security challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30680	Thank you, too. Stay because you have replicas, the first replica has Mr. Bull. [[Intruder Striker: Also, and this government.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30681	Thank you very much. A fellow Uncle, populism is when this little vaccine is vaccinated by representatives in front of cameras and ministers by showing their shirts, their signs and their muscles on them until at the same time they can't get that vaccine much more necessary and more endangered. As far as the police are concerned, first of all, there is a representative of the MUP, illegal migrants entering the Republic of Croatia uninterrupted, and I am interested in a representative of the MUP, to say how many migrants were tested, how many were positive and how many negative and how many went through Croatia daily, God knows, mainly from my Dalmatian mountain to G Kotar. So the population mentioned at this point when we see Croatia as closed cafes, I don't know why, when we see that people once were called to be 2 m away and at the same time the minister took pictures with the stars nearby and posted on Facebook. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30682	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30683	Col. Bulj, populism is when fellow MPs participate in any protests and invite citizens do not vaccinate. When called ministers and headquarters, first you should be vaccinated if you think it is a good vaccine and then when these ministers and members of the headquarters are vaccinated, then turn the story around and say why you haven't given your dose to someone else. It's populism when you change three opinions and three attitudes within 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30684	Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30685	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, Strick, has been injured by an officer. 238th, saying not only false but insulting the entire Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people. Croatia is a free country and Croatia is a free state but it is not true that someone called for vaccination but not vaccination. The fact is, there's no vaccine and there's much more to it than you, fellow Striker. Much harder and more threatened that you are painting yourself here in the assembly and working from the vaccination reality show.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30686	Thank you. It was a replica, you have a warning. Let's move on, Mr. Lenart replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30687	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Striker, I agree that these are the security challenges that you have listed, but unfortunately we cannot influence them or very little. But there were security challenges that could have been affected positively, and they affected negatively. We have now testified that there are no stock reserves, that security challenge could be affected. We have destroyed agricultural production and we are addicted to food imports, which is strategic raw materials and one of the security challenges that is unfortunately destroyed and very difficult to recover. You sold INA, the same one of the security challenges in terms of energy and energy, mobility, especially at the time of the threat, earthquakes, wars or other things that might happen. So there are several security challenges that have been ignored, destroyed and cared for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30688	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30689	Thank you. Comrade Lenart, I can even agree with you that today's energy and agricultural production are part of both national security and security challenges, and that we should strive to be as energy-efficient as possible, and also that we have as much production as possible of agricultural products, of course we need and can even support you in these directions and objectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30690	Thank you. And at the end of the day, Mr. Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30691	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. Here today, almost 11 months after this practically takes place, this crown crisis, we can finally conclude that regardless of the various measures that have been taken in different periods that we have finally achieved and managed to achieve two main goals, which is the first protection of the health of our health system in the Republic of Croatia and others, it is a protection or economy to preserve jobs. It's an indisputable fact and everyone has to accept it. Unfortunately the opposition all that time is trying to find some kind of gap, trying to find something that may not be best done, but never comes out with concrete proposals and measures related to, for some concrete measures. So here we have heard from their discussion today that it is now practically required in advance that the government and headquarters should predict measures that will be in the next few months, two, three, such a magic ball I think... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30692	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30693	Comrade Shashin, I agree with you, but I would point out that we have three goals. The first is the preservation of human health and the health system, the second is the preservation of jobs and the third is the continuation of investment, meaning the more effective use of European funds. I was preparing for this debate today to visit my upper chamber, the Varazdin County Chamber of Commerce, where I had little knowledge of the trend in the movement of the economy, and regardless of all these problems that entrepreneurs faced due to the coronary virus epidemic, industrial production in the Varazdin County since March has fallen, but in August it came to a level of year before and most of the jobs were preserved, and among other things precisely because of the need for an economy in the Varazdin County area today works over 2,000 foreigners. I think we've done it with all three goals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30694	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. And now it's Madam. Renata Sablar Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30695	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Ministers with Associates. Here I have to say that the report is quite exhaustive, so the only objection would be that only the things that were well done were listed and there were a lot of things that were well done, but there were mistakes. The goal is to keep those mistakes from happening again. This is not the first and last pandemic to happen or the epidemic that will happen to mankind, it will happen in the future. Before the onset of the pandemic, Croatian health care was a lot of problems. We had hospital debts, long waiting lists, and the doctor's overtime was piling up. And the debt to the wholesalers was also growing. The pandemic itself has shown system disorganization as well as lack of personnel. For example. We had limited spatial conditions for patients who were life-threatening, but they didn't, we didn't know their covid status at that time. The decision to declare an epidemic was made on 11 March, mobilize healthcare professionals, and we know that Croatian doctors have 3 million overtime hours, and on average that is 500 hours per doctor. A large role in Croatian health care is also played by retired doctors. They usually work four hours and they're about 500. In Croatia alone, there was a reduction during the pandemic, a reduction in wages. This was created through the manipulation of salary accounts, and the constitutional court says the salary bill is not exactly legal. Most of our health care system wasn't prepared for this type of crisis. The example of unpreparedness is KB Dubrava in Zagreb, which played a key role in the secondary healthcare system. We had a lack of food, medicine, staff, medical equipment, and doctors warned of an insufficient number of respirators in that hospital. There were also some personal things that were needed as masks, gloves, disinfectants. We also had the inability to adequately handle all other conditions and diseases. Doctors are mostly exhausted, not only doctors, but all healthcare professionals and under enormous pressure, and the Constitution guarantees us the right to health care under the law. We've had postponing operations we've had since the prolonging of waiting lists that have extended. The culmination in this COVID infection was experienced on 6 December when 2543 COVID patients were hospitalized and 70.7% of beds were taken at that time. Only after that, did we put in stronger measures that we really needed. Our hospitals had 800 respirators available, so 1 respirator per 5,000 inhabitants. After the pandemic, we need a thorough reform of the health system because at this point the health system rests on enthusiasm, humanity, empathy of professional personnel and we have a large deficit of finance in the staff, a large number of doctors are leaving us again, a significant amount has asked the chamber to leave the Republic, also organisational and infrastructureal. Hospitals are old and we really need to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30696	Thank you, too. You have one replica of Mr. Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30697	Dear MPs, you would first address the other side of the assembly, namely, I regret that the other side of the assembly takes our proposals and suggestions as criticisms and does not hear these proposals at all. The other thing is, I'm sorry they comment and try to explain the concepts and processes they misread and misexplain. And then it turns out really funny. I have a question for you. You mentioned the mobilization of medical staff and a large number of overtime old people that the health care staff has. Since you are coming from the health system, the question is what position is the current position of healthcare professionals in the system and it would ask you to specialise me, if you can look back at the period of COVID infection?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30698	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30699	I thank you for asking. Well, yeah, well, it seems to me that the little one is putting an emphasis on health care professionals. I'm not talking to all health care professionals, I'm just talking to people who work directly with COVID infections. And this initiative for a well-fused internship to be given to them for that period double, Minister, that's a really good idea, and I think you really should think about it. The problem is that colleagues who are simply overworked in such departments, this takes too long and quality a vacation because of the mobilization and situation, could not have. And we really need to say thank you to those people. As the rest of us lived relatively normally, their life seemed quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30700	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Damir Habian's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30701	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, the Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are today discussing the report on the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases for the period from 11 March 202 to 15 January 2021 and all for the right in accordance with the conclusion of the HDZ Club of Representatives and Clubs of the ruling majority. First, the public works, it should be pointed out that this conclusion of the HDZ and the ruling majority, which we are discussing here today, was adopted in this 70-seat assembly, 15 against and 36 abstentions and opposition, which today led to a lot of questions, dilemmas, and which today said that it is eager to expect this report, was against that conclusion and, therefore, it was restrained. Secondly, this report refers to the effects of implementing the measure of the Public Protection Act against infectious diseases, so as I said for the period from March last year to January 2021, it seems to me that some MPs may have, in their discussions, criticised this content report and did not give answers to what would be in the future, actually did not have in mind exactly this period to which this report relates. I don't think anyone or even the epidemiologists, experts, the minister or this House of Commons can answer what the future holds, as the minister himself said, no one has a crystal ball and it is evident that each country is therefore taking its own approach in this pandemic. It could also be heard here that the Republic of Croatia has introduced very strict measures, malts not that we are in lockdown, but I think that it should also be said to the public that with Estonia, the Republic of Croatia, so when we look at the EU, there is actually the most liberal measures in the fight against this pandemic. It was also mentioned again today here a proposal to introduce so-called a scoreboard to assess the application of measures from the very Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, however, on several occasions the minister himself and I think that some colleagues have responded very clearly why this institute does not actually produce the results as far as we can see the opposition would have given, is sufficient to look at, for example, France that introduced such a similar institute, so somewhere in November, they had 5,000 infected, several today after that came to 11 500 infected. As far as the content of the report is concerned, I believe that the same is complete, comprehensive, transparent, that one is given, I would say, a hodogram review is happening for the period covered by the report itself and that it is only attributed to this conclusion that we adopted in December. What is important to stress is that the more favourable epidemiological situation has made it possible for the last few weeks, and that today a decision is actually taken to consider a slight drop in measures, so that this first aspect refers to the return of elementary school students, to return to the school itself and the second aspect is, I would say, which is actually much more important, to the possibility of dealing with sports, training and recreation, although so far only in the open air. Many here today have highlighted the importance of active life’s movement, a sport that greatly contributes to the health of the nation, not only in the context of physical health but also in physical health. In fact, just at the time of the pandemic, limited movement and the rest of the citizens in their homes, it is important to stress the importance of physical activity especially in children. According to some studies, especially from 2016 in the Republic of Croatia, we have 35% of children aged 8 to 9 years with excessive body weight and thickness, and we are according to statistics among the first 5 countries with this problem. In terms of physical activity, almost 56% of children were observed to spend 2 hours and more hours in front of television, or certain electronic devices, on weekends, to 87%. There were colleagues here, I can't remember whether or not counterpart Tomašević or someone mentioned the use of the pool, so it is clear that the work of the pool is not limited by the decision of the National Staff, but rather by the decision on the work of the pool depends primarily on the decisions of the local headquarters, I don't think it would be understood in the wrong context as it was said. I repeat, we are all aware that we cannot know at any time what direction this pandemic will go, especially as we could hear from the minister, so given the appearance of these new strains that have been recorded in our neighborhood and how they will ultimately affect the epidemiological image of the Republic of Croatia. However, here I hope that, in the event of continued development of a good epidemiological situation, that the number of newly infected in the coming period will fall, that we can expect to allow sport and indoors to work because, I repeat, it certainly affects not only physically but also the mental health of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30702	Thank you, too. Stay, no, you don't have a replica, thank you. Now it's Mr. Ivan Celic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. At a certain point, the pandemic will pass, but it may take several years before we finally see the end of the pandemic and the start of normalisation of the state after the Covid epidemic. No one can say with certainty what this new post-Covid world will look like. There is still great uncertainty about how the coronaryvirus will form a society in the coming years. The adherence to epidemiological measures, such as masking and evading crowds, will continue these and perhaps a good part of next year. The availability of the vaccine against Covid will gradually trigger global travel, but the vaccination process will not be quick or easy. There are several vaccine-related scenarios. In the best-case scenario, this would mean that the vaccine will be similar to a seasonal cleavage against the flu or perhaps a vaccine will be developed that will be effective against all possible strains. In the worst case that I hope won't happen, we can constantly cough up a step behind an evolutionary virus and we can't catch up with it at all. So there's still a lot of suspense ahead of us. The fact is, we all live in a common world and no one is safe until everyone is safe. There have been a lot of talks today on the crown traffic lights, so different criteria in individual EU Member States are different rules for testing, quarantine, and in different situations there are different results. Last year, the EU Commission concluded a contract to deliver nearly 2 billion doses of vaccines, contracts signed with 6 producers. At the time of signing the contract, the vaccine had not yet existed and no one could tell which manufacturer was first and whether it would succeed in creating the preparation at all. The problem is not the quantities ordered but the quantities that producers are able to deliver at all. Vaccination started in most EU member states, including Croatia on December 27th. For example, only in the Netherlands on 6 January, there is a problem with the delivery, with regard to the storage of vaccines, Brussels has allocated significant amounts for the increase and production capacity to be produced in the territory of Germany. A conditional approval has been given, as EU Vice-President of the Commission for the Promotion of European Way of Life Margaritis Schinas said that without the joint action of a large country, all vaccines to the detriment of small and medium-sized EU and small countries could never provide enough vaccines at affordable prices. So it is another of the benefits that Croatia is one of the EU member states. In this second part, I will look back on the problem of mental health, and I will point out that all segments of mental health care in the Republic of Croatia have adapted extremely well to emerging activities, in which health administration and HZZO have been supported since the beginning. The continuity of psychiatric care is ensured, when a reduction in a number of hospital beds is mentioned for people with mental disorders, I will point out that in this National Strategic Framework, but also in other strategic documents at European and global level, there is a reduction of hospital beds because there is a quality of offer of adequate treatment with non-patient health care forms. As for therefore different specific programmes, so except for the already mentioned telepsychiatric care, so providing care for the remote route, I will say that with the help of the Ministry of Health, specific programmes concerning health professionals, the prevention of burn-out syndrome in healthcare professionals and the briefing of targeted support groups to healthcare professionals exposed to adverse effects on mental health, therefore in crisis situations. And the anti-stress module whose therapeutic goal is to develop awareness and control of its own reactions to symptoms of anxiety intended for the general population. Of course I will always take advantage of the opportunity to talk about mental health and I think that the Republic has provided adequate programs to help people who have never had before. That's the kind of problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30704	Thank you very much. The first replica has a Mrs. Crescent. Saberar-Dračevnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30705	Comrade Cellic, I'm glad that the National Strategy for Mental Health will finally come out, which we will have on our benches. But what I wanted to ask you, or Europe didn't sign the contract, Europe signed a letter of intent, and if we were looking for and demanding a certain amount of vaccine, it's just some kind of empty order that wasn't certified by the contract. Is this where Europe may have made a mistake with her? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30706	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30707	Dear colleagues have signed a contract for a previous purchase. So the EU has been funding research from the beginning to get an effective vaccine and after the first results have come, additional doses have been obtained. What is very important here is highlighted if the total number is looked at this would mean that each EU population in the 27 EU member states will go 4 doses of the vaccine. There, in some ways, the situation has been tried today, but as a central institution, the EU has taken care of neighbouring poor countries, we also think of countries from our region, but also of countries in North Africa that would definitely not be able to provide vaccine doses for their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30708	Mr. Bacic, second replica and last.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30709	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Celic, when we discussed the state of the health system in the beginning of December, I remember your words where you.../incomprehensible/ that the outbreak in Croatia is under control and that you have instructed certain criteria set up by the World Health Organization above all when you spoke about the state of the health system in Croatia. I am pleased that I have also replicated that in your present presentation you have confirmed this on the one hand, and on the other hand that you were talking about something less talked about in the Croatian public, which is a postcovid of healthcare professionals, and not just patients or patients. Well given that I said it would somehow your professional occupation how and in what way now Croatia and the Croatian health system in this regard works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30710	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30711	Thank you. Dear colleague Bačić, today we have heard various suggestions and I have no objection to the proposal but he would dare say that some insults are common sense. So we heard that this should be reported for the purchase of vaccines from Cuba because as some example of good medicine, we know in what kind of poverty the living citizens of Cuba are in when we already use such examples of this speech, and in the past I would prefer to say that some other countries are being used as an example even though it is very relative here, so Germany, which has been a good example for months, has been in a very difficult situation. So when it's said that the epidemic is under control, meaning the epidemic under control in a narrow sense of the word is when there's no more problems, but the epidemic under control when I was talking then I wanted to point out that the health system in the Republic is sustainable and that it's functional and at those times when the numbers didn't go very well for us, but now that we see the overall need to look at and do an analysis Then we can see that the results are good and that [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The headquarters did their job right for now. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30712	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30713	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the last time we discussed this topic was the late night hour or morning about 2:00 a.m. and the question of who was watching and one of the things the opposition at the time resented was that we weren't in the process of delaying important topics for a while when no one was watching, no one was following, and here we are now in the process so there are as many of us here in the assembly. And then in the early morning, I said one sentence that I'm going to say, and now, I want to thank this wonderful man who sits here to the Minister of Health, Mr. William Beros, his entire health system, who knew how to answer the challenges I'd say centuries ago, we haven't had an epidemic like this for a long time. I was part of that time myself because from the 3rd month until I came to the Croatian Parliament I was chief of staff of Osijek-Baranja County and I know what it meant then in March and April to establish a hospital system or prepare it for something that we absolutely didn't hope could happen in the first month of that year. And there was Mr. Beroš when he came to Osijek to the clinical hospital center as a respiratory centre for the whole east of Croatia with his team of experts came and made it clear to the hospital's leadership that they know what they want, they know the way he wants to counter the epidemic of the coronary virus. There's been a lot of talk today about local headquarters. Local headquarters are also part of a system that has done a lot of work along with this health care unit and this police department, so I want to thank all local headquarters leaders or the headquarters of all counties in our Republic because they are people who are sitting in their headquarters today looking for solutions for what is happening in the space. And there's been a lot of criticism that local headquarters didn't have much interference in all of this, but that mostly the national headquarters made decisions, that's not true. That's not true, that's what I'm saying from experience. Every initiative we had as the headquarters of Osijek-Baranja County we sent to the national headquarters and everything they thought was good for both the economy and for everything that was happening in our space they absolutely accepted and said they were behind that we could continue with these measures. I want to spend a minute on something that I think is very important. That's what he was talking about right now and Dr. Celic, she was saying something, and Mrs. Boric, we'll have the crown after the crown to understand each other. And that's very important for you to understand, this psychological part that brings the crown and that mental part is very, very, very important. I have a son who's over the crown, he's a very young boy for 25 years, he hasn't had any major symptoms, but now he's got some of these symptoms that are said here that he's often panicked, that he's losing his breath, he's been passing and pneumonia, and that's something that's a big problem, and yet it's a young person, and I'm here alone in contact with doctors and doctors to find out that more and more patients are just reporting these symptoms. So this fight won't end the moment we're all vaccinated, the moment we no longer have the infected, when we no longer have the dead, it'll probably take some more time for all those who went through the crown to get to the state they were in before that crown. There's been a lot of talk about politics, about politics, about how HDZ staged elections right at a time when there was an epidemic, a pandemic, I mean, it's not right, so do you think any serious politician, one serious policy in Croatia would set elections at a time when the whole nation is after something else? And there were a lot of words about the traffic lights. And for the end, I'll just say one thing, look at the traffic lights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30714	Thank you, too. Stay because you have several replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Hope Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30715	Thank you, dear Vice President. My dear colleague, you were a member of the headquarters as an official, so as a political person. So, can you tell us clearly whether you made decisions at your headquarters or measures for your county based on political judgments or had experts, epidemiologists and measures recommending them and, of course, you supported them as a collective body?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30716	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30717	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I'm Public Health Institute of Osijek-Baranja County and Chief Epidemiologist of the Institute, the director of KBC were persons, Mrs. Peric as a major epidemiologist and that was our attitude from the beginning. I was Deputy Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, as the chief of staff of Osijek-Baranja County, and at the first session of headquarters, the decision was just like that. Science and waist lead the whole story and politics is support. So, this policy has just been supported, Osijek-Baranja Mayor Ivan Anusic bought 5 respirators and the mayor of Osijek, Ivica Vrkic, bought 3 respirators. It was our task to ensure conditions and preconditions for this monster to pass as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30718	Thank you very much, Mr. Ante Kujundzic, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30719	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Ivanovic, I would like to know how you interpret the fact that the malls are open, I suppose that you have been in them, you have seen the crowd and all that is within the center itself, in relation to the fact that the closed cafes and restaurants and the removal and the possibility of outside coffee that someone would once again consume in the open air? Is there any logic within these two, if any and what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30720	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30721	Thank you very much. We've often asked ourselves absolutely that question at the time of that first lockdown, and at the time of this second lockdown, and I have to say that I agree with Minister Beros, I'm not an epidemiologist, I'm not a doctor, I'm not an expert who would judge what and how. Someone will say that the mall has 20,000 m2 so if you divide it into some squares, then it turns out that it can get into at once 1000 people, the cafes are much smaller, but let's be honest, these are maybe some things that a man can ask himself as a question, but I still think the profession is the one that always ends up answering and saying that it's epidemiological and in any other way that something that must be in force, agreed with me or disagreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30722	Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Ivanovic, you said that the remark was in what we discussed in December, how we hid the topic outside the reception, and I would remind you that there was also a proposal at that time that almost every day or every 15, 20, a month discussed the report of the headquarters and I understood it as a wish of opposition to constructive proposals, concrete measures to contribute to the work of headquarters. From what I'm seeing today, and you've concluded that, I don't see any propriety of the opposition, a great interest in making with some new proposals, concrete measures that would contribute to the work of the headquarters, so I absolutely agree with your findings, that the headquarters is doing well and this debate certainly goes hand in hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30724	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30725	Thank you very much. The initiatives in the Croatian Parliament are commendable, the interpretations are certainly the same part of this parliamentary discussion and so on, but then we must be consistent if we are looking for something, if we want something, if we want to see the headquarters, we need to cross the spear, we need to see what the headquarters may not be doing well, which could be better, which, of course, be better and therefore always need numbers, we need comparisons, after all, we need solutions. I've always come from it, and here I was part of that team, and whenever I had something that was too much, which could help this monster get through as quickly as possible, I didn't hesitate to have an initiative, and I say, often from the national headquarters, we got a positive decision, or we could apply it to our microunit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30726	Thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30727	Thank you very much. Col. Ivanovic, 50 days ago after the opposition we were the worst, not in Europe, in the world, today after 50 days again the same people, headquarters, minister, government, etc., now we are among the better and now it is not good because we do not listen to them even though they offer nothing, no, except that I noticed that in the past 10 days here, Parliament's meetings, a few SDP colleagues daily called for the opening of catering facilities in free topics when we have 5 minutes, the hosts are not open, let's open it up, they don't even matter, I mean what's only more problematic, and we're going to change it now, so more or less is everything else open, gyms, catering facilities, we came to. There is no more comparison with Germany that has a hard lockdown of 4. i.e. Easter, there are no other countries that live on winter tourism, no comparisons. Who are we comparing ourselves to now? With BiH, Serbia, Albania, etc., because that's what they're thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30728	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30729	Thank you, fellow Boric. I remember your debate in those early mornings when we discussed it, and then we just talked about it. I'm a man who also likes to go to a village guesthouse, hear what people say, sit down and have coffee with them, but now we're at a time like this, if that's the most we're gonna pay in this whole story, then I don't think we're that bad. What's important is that people who work in the catering system, who are workers, who have not lost their jobs, these people still get their pay today, and I think that's essentially the most important thing. But through hospitality, they say the Croatian economy is going to fail, I don't think it's a good comparison and I think it pays the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30730	And the last replica, Mr. Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30731	My dear colleague, first of all, I don't know what to say at the moment when you say you're not an epidemiologist, then you say you ran the headquarters, and then after that, you don't understand why some things are being brought in when my colleague asks you, but then on the other hand you say you have certain initiatives that you've been pushing. I honestly don't know what an average viewer might conclude from your exposure, what I can see, and Mr. Boric, he doesn't even care about exactly those who fill his budget in his community and these are the caterers, they're the ones who run the cafes, who run the restaurants, only you do the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, that's what you said, but what I'm interested in, why don't you be fair to everyone so if the number of squares is what one facility defines that can do, why can't it work and a catering facility if it's such a rule for malls, why can't it be for others? Why are you doing wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30732	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30733	Thank you very much. My colleague Petrov was injured by the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, it's untrue and my bill. He says I don't care what they think or do to the caterers and I'll tell him that today I have a meeting of the municipal council and that the Ministry of Finance has allowed us to put an end to the COVID crisis and the consumption tax that we otherwise had in our income, up to 31.1. given that we entered the lockdown somewhat later than everyone else and that it's the government's concern for the caterers, that they don't have to pay for it all year, so we'll see as far as we can without telling them what we've given them, through public surfaces, communal compensation and everything else. And you who have never made any decisions [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] You don't care. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30734	Mr. Boric, you know you have a warning, right? 'Cause I don't know. 238 does not deal with the truth...... It's not about the truth, it's just the truth that in this Rules of Procedure, not because everyone has their own truth here, is that, that's why there are parliaments and others can replicate but not be hurt by the Rules of Procedure. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. Josip Djakić Excuse me, reply to the replica. It wasn't the last replica, Mr. Djakic, it still has a replica... [[Upadica Ivanovic: No, the answer to Mr Petrova.]] No, no, no, the answer to what? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yeah, okay, okay. [[Upadica Ivanovic: On the replica of Mr Petrova.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30735	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Petrov, I think I've been very clear and overly clear, I've been Chief of Staff but at first we said that the whole story about the crown crisis is run by the Department of Public Health, the Chief Epidemiologist and the KBC in Osijek. And there was no dispute at all, we were also discussing some other decisions related to the spring crop, about something that was related to the specificities of the area where I come from, is also about this, shopping malls, cafes. We have not made a decision to do so, the national headquarters has estimated that this is something that epidemiologically can go through regardless of our agreement or disagreement with such a decision. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30736	Thank you very much. Mr. Josip Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30737	Thank you very much. A colleague of Ivanovic, you spoke in your statement on politics that is happening in this epidemic and the charges of politics in the ruling majority. I'd just like to point out one thing. Politics is when at such difficult times and the recommendations of epidemiologists, things happen as they happen in our political order to invite one to non-vaccination, others call for non-compliance with measures, others seek hair in the egg to disprove all the good things that have happened and how many lives have been saved. I think politicians recognize each other very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30738	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30739	I agree that politics as a byproduct of politics is the most dangerous thing that can happen but it happens. I'm just going to say something about a parliamentary campaign in June and early July last year. Look at the decisions, Station IV. election units have decided not to move around the area, that they will have only small gatherings that were not usual for HDZ that always had large gatherings, Mayor Anusic, the viritative and sub-level mayor made a decision that we would move only so far around the space that we were moving and I am sure that HDZ did not use the pandemic or an epidemic of the coronary virus to win the elections. She won because most people in Croatia voted precisely for HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30740	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Rada Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30741	Dear Vice President, once again Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to tell Mr. Ivanovic, I hope that we will not have a crown after the crown, we will have a sure problem and set an example for post-coronal diseases, of course we will have the vaccine for the crown, at this point we do not have it, I hope that we will have it, but we certainly will not have a vaccine for mental illness unless we take care of it, and I have said it in the previous presentation of measures to take care of it in advance, even though it is already late on the issue of our own mental health, i.e. the health of our citizens. This report in the title has effects, so I'd just like to say a few words about the effect. how we have followed the overall effects of the Covid crisis on the health condition of patients suffering from other diseases and we have asked the Ministry of Health to conclude that it has not come to the conclusion that, based on the data on the length of the waiting, on the number of delays in the examination, procedures, to present an assessment of the impact of Covida-19 pandemic on other patients and this possibility of access, their access to health services, the possibility of treatment in order to actually, and this is also a proposal for some other type of effectiveness, so that we can look at all aspects of the consequences of this crisis on the health of citizens and plan investment in capacities where they need to be rerouted and strengthened. You know that at all these times, in order to deal with the crisis, we've been redecorating the departments, the Covid departments as I've listed them, and some of the premises of some other departments have been taken, all of which is reasonable, the question is just, and you know that it's very important for the safety of the citizens that they know exactly if they're sick so that at the end they don't really die, they're just people with co-morbidities. So is there anything we can do to improve the system and show what it is to inform citizens, for example? where they can receive medical services, at which point they can receive them, which are scheduled deadlines, on which services are temporarily unavailable. If we're transparent, here we're talking about transparency there's a way for citizens to say it and we know that citizens know it's safe at this point someone who's on the respirator that's certainly a priority, but a man who might be waiting for a heart surgery or anything else has to know at least at any reasonable time will come to him. What we have also suggested, and it seems to me that in this report we have not received answers, so how we have strengthened the civil protection system itself in the Republic of Croatia. We've seen how important it is, and it's also shown in the earthquake when things work with both health and health, it's also my question whether, within some time, we can get a report on the state of health on the earthquake affected area of Banja slash Banovini since we have answers you yourself know that the older people didn't have containers at the beginning, they didn't have homes, that they were out there, that they were getting sick of pneumonia, from chronic bronchitis, that due to poor hygiene conditions, there were bowel virosis, these are reports from a team of mobiles from the hospital in Sisak. We know ourselves what the situation is there, if I was here to advocate that we are talking about the mental health of our citizens that we will face in the years that even come and I don't think we should forget that the World Health Organization told us before the pandemic that by 2030, and we worked yesterday we presented our strategy until 2030, that the first chronic illness would be depression. So, we have to get started, I haven't seen that we've done anything about health in the strategy, for example. So I'm interested on the one hand and what we're doing for our citizens who are not a collateral victim because Covid happened, but other diseases also don't ask for security, so then that security and their mental health, I think it's important, and also what I started, I'm curious about how we mobilized citizens through the civil protection system. You know they were mobilized in an earthquake. They were offering themselves. They were able to do a series of work related to, of course, fighting. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] against Covid. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30742	Thank you very much. You have no replica, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Maria Jelkovac's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30743	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues here all day we are discussing this issue because it is still very current and what I would say at the outset is an old saying that a healthy man has a thousand wishes and only one sick person to heal. And I think all of our fellow citizens who unfortunately went through this pandemic and got over this disease that in those moments had really only this desire to heal and their loved ones. Following this, we can primarily be grateful to all our health care professionals, doctors, nurses, technicians, but also to those non-medical staff who provided enormous logistics support for the whole system to function well. We can say today, now that we're looking at this report and everything that we've been through backwards, that we've gotten rid of that problem, that we've dealt well with it. Of course, there have been problems, we see that many economically stronger countries have faced many problems, but we can say that we have been well equipped with everything that was needed, that in time we have taken a number of measures to ensure that our citizens are saved from the pandemic, from the infection and what is important, we should say that we are daily, that the headquarters in cooperation with the local headquarters are constantly analysing the situation and, of course, we are also learning about the virus in the steps that we would say because what we have not met so far, we are always facing at the moment when decisions are to be made and we are trying to find the best possible solution and solution. Of course, there were probably mistakes once, but we tried to make them right. What I would like to say is, it is certain that the government has been dealing very well with the crisis that we see that it has sought to preserve the economy primarily in its situation because without the economy after the end of this crisis and all this time, we cannot count on prosperity in society. Many of the measures the government has taken have gone all the way to preserve jobs that are most important in the whole situation, and is aware that many economically stronger countries have not responded in these situations. So what is happening to us right now is certainly not the end of the crisis and certainly all citizens, and so do we here, eagerly expect the day when the measures will loosen up what we would say for reasons, because we all have had enough of this situation, especially for our young people who do not have a natural state, neither go to school nor students go to college regularly, everything is being done online and we are sure that we are all suffering because of it, but the goal is that we must suffer because of it, it is primarily the protection of all of us, the protection of our health. And that's why I think even at this point when you're considering what way to go on, it's important that we keep in mind that we still don't need to loosen up the measures too quickly, we see that other countries don't do it for reasons that this can be turned down negatively on our heads, and I think that we all need to hold out a little bit more together. I'd like to commend all of our citizens, I think they've responded very well to all the measures. We see this from the reports because very few of those who have committed certain violations against the measures taken and I think that citizens believe that this is for the benefit of all of us and that for this reason, even though there were concerns and concerns about the public's interest in vaccination, I don't think it should be these concerns, that citizens are aware that this is the only way to get back to normal, that the sooner we all get together in the largest number of vaccines, the sooner we will get our lives back to that normal we had before this COVID crisis. Unfortunately, here were the discussions that were before this much of the opposition said what was more like politics, of course the opposition always has space and should be criticised for what was not good, but I think that in situations like this pandemic, we should first of all show unity and what is our goal, and that is to achieve the best results, to get such negative results done as soon as possible, and that we should all then go towards that goal together, highlight what is good and be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30744	Thank you. You have replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30745	Thank you. Comrade Jelkovac, we are today getting the first report in the Assembly on what happens to COVID-19 after 10 months. which is a unique example in Europe. Most countries do it one month, Germany, say, once every three weeks. Personally as a parliamentary representative, as a national representative, I feel humiliated in this regard. So that's that after 10 months. We should have passed this report, talking about how the government was treating us I would have said, not only to the Parliament but also to the citizens who chose us. I think people are willing to endure longer and more rigorous things and limitations, but then when they have a clear rational insight into the parameters. I see as a major problem the fact that once we have a world-wide experience of 10 months, a lot of statistics on different situations, different numbers of infected people, how the measures bring results, as a problem I see that we don't have clear parameters, that people know that on that number of infected people the school is closing down or the cafes are opening up. Why don't we have a decision-making parameter? That's where I see the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30746	Thank you very much, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30747	Thank you for asking, dear colleague. Well, there has been a lot of talk about this today, and even in previous discussions, some of you MPs have called upon the example some countries have set, so to speak. traffic lights, however, show that there are no better results in these countries because they introduced the model. So, we chose this model to analyze the data every day and I also have to say that our public was familiar with the situation on a daily basis. So, I think it's important that we all send out accurate information and that we just don't send the wrong messages to our public. So what I have to say is, it's also been called that this is where the Parliament makes its decisions, i.e. to bring measures. We at the HDZ Club were against it precisely because it would not be effective and fast and it has now proved to be a good decision, that measures are being taken by the headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30748	- Mrs. Crescent. Hope Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30749	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members, in your debate you presented exactly what the Government had all along, two goals, which is to preserve the health of our citizens on the one hand and to preserve as much as possible, the economies which bear witness and the considerable resources that have been given to the economy as in some way compensation for the reduction of their work and production, which, by the way, many countries do not even work. The opposition criticises us that the government has taken all these measures for political reasons without any reasonable expertise. What do you think and have you ever heard in the debates, on which expert and well-founded analyses are based on their criticism and are their criticisms exclusively political?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30750	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30751	Thank you. My fellow Members, so it is the right of opposition to criticise but the citizens will eventually say in the elections again, as they have said in the previous elections. I think that the government would prefer the situation to return to normal, that the economy function normally, that everything is open because it means normal state functioning, normal income in the budget. However, the government has put above it the highest objective of protecting the health and life of our citizens, and I think it is only justified and relevant. Anything else will show the time for what reason someone has suggested, whether it was politics or not, the citizens will best assess it. I think that these results today, too, are saying that we have had a good approach to crisis management and that we have set the goals that we have set well, and also at local levels regarding the economy. Our units have taken a number of measures to help the economy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30752	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30753	Dearly respected MPs, you mentioned education and youth, but one important fact you said, and that what is Croatian people and all of our citizens are really these measures with which the complete situation has been widely accepted, why it happens to us then that indeed from the first lockdown so that some of our leaders of the opposition did not then accept or understand what the entire Croatian people really understood, and today they do not want to be set up and be truly a cornerstone in society but are indeed going into one criticism of political activists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30754	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30755	Thank you, colleague, so I'm not going to enter the reasons why the opposition acted that way. So, I always say the opposition has the right to criticise but in situations like this that I would say beyond the political goals of a particular party, so when we as a people have to show a common ground in the fight against something that has affected the whole country and when we have to show this power of community, I think we should have done a lot differently, and that's what makes me sad that there is no more of this togetherness in such situations. You remember that in the debates concerning the opposition, it was constantly resisted that we were making counter-constitutional decisions, that human rights were violated, and that was where totalitarianism was talked about. We can see that all of this was not, that all the measures that were taken and the way they were being implemented, that they went first and foremost to one goal, which is to protect the health and life of our fellow citizens. I once again mention all those who were covered by this virus are I can best testify to what he's like and what's the harm. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] from him. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30756	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Katarina Peovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30757	First of all, let me say that the Workers' Front in the parliamentary procedure has reached a conclusion that would oblige the Government to decide which would allow workers in respiratory centres, but also anyone involved in the fight against the coronary crisis, the coronary viruses to hold a double-term insurance hold or a popular-ranked employment internship. We all know that technicians, health workers, doctors, are under great pressure to bear the enormous burden of fighting the crown of the virus and that they are indeed already facing the expected exhaustion with the uncertain future of the total duration of the crisis. For a long time, healthcare professionals have been warning about the exhaustion and insufficient capacities of the health system and what is crucial is that no sufficient resources have been invested in the health system that has actually experienced a series of crises in return and so I will remind you of the crisis with private wholesales when the delivery of medicines and medical equipment has ceased at a crucial and critical moment. In many countries, too, wages have been raised or some form of financial reward has been given. In France, for example, an average of € 183 per worker, in Estonia double salaries to all health workers, in Slovenia 200% salary allowance, in Scotland 500 euros per salary. Our health workers are practically fighting the pandemic, practically under regular conditions we could say. So workers who are involved in hospitals and other institutions that work intensively with patients are only allowed 10% on salary, and according to the labour coefficient, some have received barely 100 kunas of higher salary. The trade unions warned of these shamefully small fees, so-called. Covid’s addition, and many have actually been more offended to say so on this supplement than they rejoiced in it. But if it has already been impossible for doctors, nurses, and all workers in those health institutions to provide some dignified supplement means a raise, then the name could be really recognized at this point, at least intensively and in health and life - threatening work or allow them to do the unfettered work. Today I asked the Minister that question, and I must say, I'm glad it's something you've been thinking about. But what did not satisfy me was the answer to the obstacle of the Labour Act. I find it kind of hard to believe that those who have a majority can't change the Labour Law if it's an obstacle. In any case, your answer that we'll think about it if the crisis persists, the question of how much longer the crisis can take, is really going on for quite a long time. So it seems to me that somehow the answer was a good idea, but everything's going to stop at that and it's actually going to be forgotten. In any case, the purpose of this measure seems to me to be good, and it seems to me that it would be a motivation for our nurses, technicians, doctors and other workers in the health system, so I hope it doesn't end up just on these good wishes. Of course, there is also something to be said about material and objective problems, noting that huge minuses and deficits are now being accumulated in the health system. The Ministry of Finance provides unambiguous loans but they will eventually have to return. Therefore, there is a legitimate concern and we can expect some announcements before the pandemic, especially from Minister Marić, that there will be a violation of the right of basic health insurance and an increase in the health contribution of basic and particularly supplementary insurance. Before the crisis, Minister Maric said the health system was financially unsustainable. The third problem I do not have enough time to expose it to, but it is certainly about the question I have raised about European procedures and approvals in obtaining the vaccine. It is unacceptable to depend on those vaccines approved by the EU at the time hundreds of people die a week. I think you need to think about a way to diversify the crisis and try to get some other drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30758	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and deputies. Croatia began preparing and implementing epidemiological and other measures aimed at curbing the spread of the covid-19 disease epidemic immediately after the first reported case in February of last year and immediately declared the pandemic in March and amended the Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases in April. An institutional crisis management model has also been established with the appropriate severity and urgency of the pandemic, which enables rapid action in the event of the growth of the number of patients and which enables the measures taken to achieve the objectives set, but at the same time to be so good that they meet the needs of the moment in which we are located and to last the time that the circumstances require it. I would especially like to thank all health care professionals who are patiently and responsibly concerned about the health of our citizens. It is a disease that is severe and unpredictable and when we think that we know more about it suddenly surprises us, and also the announcements by pharmaceutical companies that they will not be able to deliver the amount of vaccine as provided for by the contract have further made the situation difficult. I am sure that in these circumstances, it is not easy to make decisions and seek the full balance between people's health and job preservation, and both of them are our priorities. As the month since the first earthquake hit my Sisak-Moslavina County today, I would like to thank you from the heart of all the haste services that quickly arrived on the ground and helped us, as well as the Ministry of Health that helped evacuate our patients from the Sisak and petrin hospitals who suffered badly in the earthquake. It is clear to all that, in the circumstances in which we were found, we were not able to fully comply with the epidemiological measures, but I can say, and today I have contacted our chief epidemiologist to assure me that the situation is under control and after the initial stress and shock that has occurred, people have returned to respect measures again, with vaccination going on continues. But we need to pay attention to some potential public health problems that may arise because, for example, water is not good for drinking in certain parts of the county, it needs to be cooked, and it also needs to be carried out urgently. On the other hand, it is important to train our hospitals in Sisak and Petrinja to function because the buildings are damaged in the earthquake, they have red and yellow marks. Our plan is to complete crafts work on surgery and ophthalmology in about a month, in six months, complete the work on the central pavilion. Given the information that comes in about the very high costs needed to strengthen the structure of buildings damaged by the earthquake, I think we need to take this seriously to think and to think about how to rebuild and execute it. We will need ministers of assistance and the Ministry of Health, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to reach the best possible decision together, because once we make a decision, we will also need financial resources to create conditions for our citizens to be able to provide adequate health care. I would also like to draw attention to how important it is for us to include our local craftsmen, the owners of Sisak-Moslavina County, with all these work-related works, because in some ways it will help them to keep their workers in our area, and I think it is a national interest for these people to stay living in Sisak-Moslavina County. In this regard, our craftsmen and entrepreneurs have proposed a set of measures that can help them to help us revitalise the entire area and I am saying that I am aware that I may be entering the jurisdiction of the second headquarters and topic, but I want this whole thing to be looked at in full by Sisak-Moslavina County and to find the best possible solutions. And here I would point out a good example, a good solution to the forms of cooperation of local self-government and headquarters entrepreneurs, which is related to the start of the construction of the Centre of New Life in Petrinja, which is aimed at restoring the earthquake-affected area and fostering economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30760	Thank you very much. Stay. ... Mr. Deur has his first line. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30761	Here are the honourable MPs, surely here, you mentioned first of all Sisak-Moslavina County where I know that you are very present and that not only with this virus that hit this county as well as the whole of Croatia, surely, but with this strong earthquake where there really was a man, where terrible things were happening, here's how much government is present and how far the headquarters itself and at the head of Minister Bear, how safe it is and how fast is the reaction that really helps that man be able to live not only and the entrepreneur, but all the people from education to, the general part of life that can be led today in that county? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30762	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30763	Thank you, Agent Deur, for your replica. It is very important that there is this flow of information and strong communication to listen to the voice of people on the ground because still people who live there know best what we need and there would like to praise this willingness of Minister Medveda to hear and the needs we have in Sisak-Moslavina County and in the part in which it is possible to respond to them, I mentioned the centre of new life in Petrinja where there will be 100 residential, 100 business containers where the headquarters clearly said at the meeting that this would be supported by financial resources by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30764	We have one violation of Mr. Rasputic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30765	Thank you. Here, he's hurt. 232, the speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him to stick to the agenda theme. It's very clear what agenda we're on, and I don't think we can use this right now to brag and praise the government about what it does in Sisak-Moslavina County after the earthquake. It's not the subject of today's speech, so please chair, that in accordance with Article. 232. Notice both the pay phone and the pay phone, and the ones that are replicating to observe the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30766	Time, thanks. Mr. Crucifix, I'm going to have to give you a heads-up. [[Intrudica Rasdić: And also, point 231, I don't think I'm interrupted by these incursions and forced laughter as I speak.]] If you continue, I'll have to give you a warning. ... Because time has passed... [[/Intruder Rasputic, you don't understand.]] Because time has passed long ago. [[/Intruder Rasputic, you don't understand.]] The answer is always the same because such injuries often happen to the Rules of Procedure, I then give no warning to anyone who has passed the time eventually, or to anyone who has spoken for the simple reason that in every speech a little veer off the subject. If it's a dominant turn off topic, then there are warnings and I am deeply aware of it. So we're going to move on and move on to the next one, no one's going to get a warning, and we're going to move on to the next line. I think I made myself clear, if someone was dominant about something else, then it's normal to get and it wasn't... Yeah, I know, but, I know, are you talking about speech or are you talking about replica? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Rasputic, you don't understand.]] And listen around the replica,...... [[/Intruder Rasputic, you don't understand.]] Excuse me, but around the replica, that's where we get into another... [[/Intruder Rasputic, you don't understand.]] Over, over, over, over, over, over, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder Rasputic, you don't understand.]] I'm sorry, on my own responsibility, I've decided I won't give anyone a warning, if anyone disagrees, you know what the road is, right, that's the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and don't, please, you have no right to answer that. [[Intruder Petir: I have reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Only I have the right to answer No, no, no. [[/Intruder Petir: I've reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, how come I have no right?]] You have no right to answer on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30767	I answered, I went there, I picked up, everyone saw. I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. How could you not? [[You can't report from here for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Of course I can. Because my colleague Rasdic can't prescribe to me what I'm going to say and think, so this isn't one-minded and communism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30768	I thought I'd give a ten-minute break for the 17:30, but I'll give it to you now. Ten minutes of ventilation, thank you very much. Thank you. It's 5:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.10 HOURS]] Here you go. Here you go. ... And then we have a new replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30769	Here's my thanks, Vice President. Here's a distinguished colleague, in a pandemic that actually the world's largest health authority can't give a good answer, do you think that the Croatian government, Minister Beros and Stacer have made quality and good moves? One and the other, you join the same commendation of all health care professionals who have given exceptional pain in suppressing the pandemic, still working and unfortunately we do not know when the end will be. And I just need to look back at the end, that Mr. Rasdic, he's not here, that he listens to Mr. Butt as he says, then he'd know exactly what he's talking about off topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30770	... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Answer, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30771	Thank you, Mr. Šimičević, for your replica, as I said in my opening part of the speech, I believe that Croatia and Stoger, together with Minister Beros and Bozinović, took all the necessary activities in time and as you mentioned, there is an unpredictability of this disease and we do not know how they will behave and in accordance with the circumstances in which we are, we seek to protect on the one hand people's health, on the other hand, to preserve jobs that are also important to us that the system works. I'm surprised that some MPs appear here by criticising the situation in Sisak-Moslavina County, which, apart from, of course, the Covid-19 pandemic, has hit a terrible earthquake and where unfortunately we have some other problems that are bothering us so that it would be good, actually. to let the speaker answer the question he was asked, [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] Not that he's trying to prescribe what the speaker is supposed to say. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30772	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30773	Dear Representative Petir, I agree with you that we are no longer in communism and I believe that this mental set is well known to you because you have defined the PR as the last president of the Yugoslav Presidency Stipe Mesic, but on the basis of your new fostering democratic practices, I am interested in what you are doing as an experienced euro-parliamentary to warn the ruling majority whose current part of you is to do something at European level, as do other sovereign countries, so that these contracts that torture us all, and regarding contracts to vaccine producers are more transparent and accessible to the general public, and that they can adapt to the needs of the market, what we require, that they are not as foreign and as unknown to us as the current situation is? Have you spoken to and will you speak to someone inside the government to encourage initiatives on that trail?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30774	Thank you. Here you go, ma'am. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30775	Dear colleague Selak Rasdic. You have been coming down to a personal level for a long time in the discussion in HS, your position in both the Assembly and the academic community is not an honor, but you are giving a picture to the entire public to see that you have no arguments but to discredit people just because you disagree with them in their views on the world. When it comes to the talks on the vaccine, yes, I talked to the prime minister, and the prime minister discussed the EU council last week on the subject. It has been insisted that contracts are respected, by the more the EU has invested considerable financial resources to come up with the right solutions with AstraZenec and will certainly not fit in on this situation that we are in today. It will be insisted that those vaccines that have been ordered pay and delivered and that people get the vaccine they need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30776	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Oh, yeah, well, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30777	Art. In 238, the esteemed representative, Petyr, demeaned me and brought lies to my account. I have neither long nor personally offended any parliamentary representatives, and what I referred to was her earlier replica, and it was specifically about her public rather than her personal actions, she is not ashamed of him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30778	Well, we've made that clear, that there's been no offense, and now it's Mrs. Devereaux. Petir also asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238, because this was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, clearly, on many occasions colleague Selak Rasdic was belittled, not only by me but also by others. He's forever on the clock and he's smart, he's holding on to a moral vertical, and I don't think he has any right to do that, and I can only say that I'm sorry that he's going down to this level of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30780	- Mrs. Crescent. Petir, it wasn't about the truth, it was about demeaning, which is what's in the article. In 238, and it became clear that it wasn't that intention and it wasn't that, so then I think we can get it over with. There was no question, there was a question of truth, there would have been a warning, but there was a question of demeaning, or an insult, we found that it was not addressed to the public, etc., that is, in other words, it means that it was not addressed to any person. I've got it right, ma'am. Selak? ... No, I know it's all right in advance, but I got it right? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay, thanks. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] All right, thank you, thank you, I get it. [[Intruder Selak Rasdić: I always agree with the authorities.]] It wasn't a question of whether it was okay or not. It was a question of understanding. - Mrs. Crescent. Charger's Martinchev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30781	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I would refer to that part of the report concerning the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases in the field of tourism. Namely, we know that temporary work has been suspended in catering facilities, providing services except for those services in hotel facilities, camps, dormitories and dormitories, and only for those users who provide accommodation services. So, in all others, it is either suspended or made possible in a special way so that services can personally be taken over or delivered to the restaurant or food delivered from the catering facility at the door itself at home. So they came, there were important changes in the structure of the offer and we have some positive examples where some restaurants are turning delivery rather than service in the facility itself. In particular, the catering sector related to the organisation of events has been affected. All of this, of course, has affected major economic changes, especially in the sector. We need to know that tourism is our strategic activity, that it has a significant share in Croatia's GDP and that it deserves special attention. The time for this report has also had a tourist season. At the beginning of the spring last year, we predicted and were happy when it was said that we could draw 30% of traffic from the record 2019, in the end we could see that July and August reached as much as 62% of nights from 2019 which was a record year and had much better figures than it had in 2018 and again compared to those earlier, we totaled over 54 million nights. However, it should be said that the financial results were significantly, significantly lower. That is why the government has responded according to this sector by various economic measures, from providing minimum wages for the preservation of jobs, that the funds are secured, favourable loans for liquidity and even covering the whole part or the works of fixed costs. Yesterday we saw that the Croatian Tourism Association appealed to me, too, at this time, that we must maintain favourable trends as a prerequisite for a good season. The season that follows us, it will show us some new figures again, we will have some new arrivals, overnights, etc., and it is very, very important that we prepare it as well as possible. And they themselves say that there is the most important discipline, and here I will quote saying "quality epidemiological situation and perception of destination security this year is the prerequisite for achieving significant tourism traffic, so we must continue with good trends and welcome the start of the tourist season." Since I see that time leaks to me, I would just remind myself of what is in other countries because there are a lot of criticism that some other countries are doing much better, much better. We have the latest research in 100 countries that says New Zealand is the best response to the pandemic. And that's because he shut down the borders, put in a general quarantine early. Croatia stands 54th between Switzerland and Germany on the 100-nation scale. It doesn't seem that we're the worst, that we're doing it badly because here's what these indicators are and the research has done it in such a way that they've seen how many confirmed cases of infection, how many deaths there are, how much ratios of the rate of the infected and the deaths to millions of people, the ratio of the infected and tested and the number of people tested per 1,000. No matter how happy the caterers are that they still have to be closed, but I'm sure it's a role in a good tourist season. All that could not have been achieved and all those jobs that could have been lost, the government had just covered it with nothing less than nearly 10 billion kuna that they provided for the payment and rescue of 600,000 jobs and the payment of contributions and in November with additional measures and insurance of around 2.1 billion kuna, for what I counted and liquidity. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30782	We've been through a lot. Enough because we discussed other things here. And now the replica has Mr. Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30783	Dear MPs, you mentioned our caterers and their problems. I will repeat what I said earlier, it is that people would be willing to sacrifice both on discipline and on greater closure when they see clear parameters and understand the reasons why it is necessary to do so. But how do you comment on this fact that cafes can't give out coffee and bakerys or gas stations can? That's one thing. Secondly, measures should always be measured taking into account not someone abstract but what is happening in reality. If you walk down Bogovic's or on the Split coast, what will you see? You'll see the people who took that coffee at the bakery or took a drink with them and stood at a close distance without masks, talked, hung out in places where they usually hung out. Why can't the terraces of restaurants and cafes be opened when people are already in practice in this kind of contact? There seems to me that a little bit of need to have more sensitivity and prudence and pay attention to what's happening in practice, which we can't close differently except complete lockdown; or [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Police watch. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30784	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30785	My colleague Rasudiæ here can even agree with you, but I simply worked for a long time in the catering from, on the release of a solution so you had an absurdd you have in the store when you provide pizza then it is a commercial activity, and when it is done in a restaurant or in a pizza place then it is a catering activity. The catering activity has its own laws, regulations and is subject to one regulation, whether or not I know the sale of blankets from a moving vehicle or the same kind of sale in a paper packaging for a house from a catering facility. So here I can agree with you that it would be fair if, if you can already bring coffee for home that can be done by catering and shopping facilities either from the restaurant category, either from the coffee bar category.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30786	Thank you very much. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30787	Dear MPs, we are aware that tourism is whatever you think of it, a branch we really depend on. But there's a problem since our season's coming soon. Since schools can be opened depending on what a particular county decides, some counties that could be opened by themselves, open their doors to children, think about schools, have decided to wait partly, because they are afraid of a new wave of infection that could endanger the coming season. What do you do in that situation? Is it fair that such relationships that have primarily taken care of the tourism sector are brought to the children's heart, or do they even have the right to decide such a thing, who should have a priority there?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30788	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30789	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ this pandemic hasn't worked since yesterday, since the 3rd month it's been working, and we had measures that were at national level, so then we had a period when it came down to the county level, and then it was seen that it wasn't very good, and there should be a very, very good balance. As we talked about not only the tourism sector, but now when we talk about children and all categories of our citizens or old people in nursing homes, we need to be very well balanced and see how to do as little damage as possible to the pandemic Covid, and on the other hand, do not harm someone or the economy when it comes to tourism or education or the elderly population how this will affect their psyche and what consequences we can have because this really takes too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30790	Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30791	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Juričev said in his presentation on 100 countries, referring to New Zealand, their measures, and we were witnesses today where we are trying to compare the measures and decisions of our national headquarters with BiH. Personally, I think it is incomparable for reasons among other things that the Republic of Croatia has done over a million and 175 thousand tests while for the same period BiH is slightly more than 395 thousand. In part, it is because we are an EU member, which we have more economic power and we can afford to obtain this test while probably in BiH that measures as in the Republic of Croatia have been applied and that certain economic operators have not worked in some way, and they are poorer than we are and would probably have a worse situation than we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30792	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30793	Thank you very much. Comrade Begonj, it is good that the colleagues who called our headquarters and wanted to compare us to the situation in BiH hear this, and all our citizens, because there was no case of people knowing to say, there is all open there, and there are not such terrible numbers. However, the exact problem is the number of tests tested. Let us not forget in what period of the year that we have there I do not know that it was often the case to go to Jahorina for skiing, as well as our neighbours Slovenians have called us that we may have accessed differently in the 5th month when our tourist season followed, probably and they may not have said the figures, but by forsing with some measures before their season.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30794	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30795	I'm glad you accepted the proposal. agree that catering facilities should be opened because without, with epidemiological measures, such as gas stations and numerous other bakerys, or I don't know what, under the same conditions, is no less because this is a great pity for people who do catering, restaurants, etc. My question to you is whether you are aware of your coming from this county, and it is your party's authority that employees, medical staff of the General Hospital of Veteran and General Hospital Croatian pride in Knin do not receive travel expenses, 7 months travel expenses of medical staff who care for the citizens in the only hospital in Dalmatia Zagora. I expected the minister to give an answer, he kept quiet, thought he'd pass. I ask you, what will you do as a representative of the ruling majority? to this huge injustice in this Covid crisis? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30796	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30797	Thank you very much. My friend Bulj, first of all, I didn't say I was the one to open the facility, but I think it might be logical if you can get coffee at a gas station or at a grocery store that could also be taken in a coffee shop window. As far as this second section is concerned, the Ministry of Health is providing funds to all hospitals as well as to the hospital in Knin. However, since they do not have a sufficient number of services that they provide, we know that now because of the specific situation, people are reluctant to go to other reviews, so they cannot even expose enough invoices or exceed that limit and get additional funding. It's a matter of hospital administration and of which direction they're going to channel those funds they're getting from HZZO. Someone's gonna give priority to paying for the drugs, someone's gonna pay for their personal income. someone traveling [[Intruder: Time.]] Costs. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30798	Mr. Miro Bulj requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30799	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, Branka, you have injured Article 238 where you are not answering the question but are speaking disinformation. The workers and medical staff do not receive travel expenses. Those working ladies and people working from Sinj, Sibenik, Drniš, Split do not receive travel expenses for 8 months. What have you taken and your silent minister, who is The cat has fallen tongues in this crisis and this attitude towards these people who work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30800	I let you talk, you know better than me that it's a replica and that's a second warning, and there's no answer to that, and now we're going to the replica of Mrs. Maria Jeklovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30801	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues in your presentation, you said it was very important that during the next few months, or when the tourist season begins, we have the status of a safe tourist destination. And I think that's also an important factor in deciding what speed we're going to give in to certain measures. What I have already said and in my debate, it is certain that all of us would love it, and the government would prefer if everything worked normally and it would suit all of us the most, but the responsibility is to those who make decisions based on certain parameters, which is in this case the headquarters. And it is certain that they will make the mostportunal decisions because they will also be called upon and for those decisions after these measures show some results. We have seen that our neighboring countries, and related to this tourist winter season, have also taken appropriate measures before it, and all in view of their success in the season, although in the end it has failed, right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30802	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30803	Thank you very much. We also know that in the spring when we had the first wave and the first closure that there was dissatisfaction. Then we proudly said that it was very good because then we did a very good tourist season, they said one of the best in the Mediterranean that we had and now I'm not repeating the figures we had and we made over 54 million overnights in 2020. And once again, she would tell her colleague Bulju that I replied, the HZZO in full, which means the government, the ministry has fulfilled its obligation to the Knin hospital, and it is up to them to assess whether the payment priorities pay for medicines, consumer materials, wages or travel expenses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30804	Thank you very much, no more replicas, is there that, Mrs Ahmetovic, I apologize And it's not the first time that it is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30805	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs, given the quality of the document we're discussing today, I must confess that you have drawn the best of yourself to shape your own debate. I ask you, since you have called for the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases in the field of tourism and sports, which has taken over the page and a half in this report, to indicate to me at least one single effect under the headings The effects of the implementation of the measures listed. Please use the minute of your answer, read again in a minute as you have prepared yourself for this chapter and to quote me, quote one, the only effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30806	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30807	The final effect of each of these measures is the number of infected, and we see that they fall every day and week. Well, that's why we have this report, and that's why we have the number. So we can't know how much we have to do with this measure 3 or 5% less infected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30808	Mrs Ahmetovic, you can't do that. You can't do that. You're done with the answer. Yeah. [[/Intruder: Yes, yes.]] Mrs. Ivana Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterparts, Minister Beros, said we failed to act on collective awareness that people are not gathering, so the cafes will have to remain closed, paraphrasing. Now please tell me nicely how will these caterers endure the success of this tourist season when they don't even know today when their doors will be open? How are they going to endure when they have unfair competition that sells coffee to them, today it's coffee to go, tomorrow it might be tea, juices and something like that? how they will endure when these 4,000 kunas you talked about and said that the government gave 10 billion kuna to preserve jobs, unfortunately they have not yet paid in December, and unfortunately to some or November. When will this successful season come in which tourism will save the Croatian economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30810	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30811	I am sure that the 2021 tourist season will be successful and that the figures will be good, but that is why we must all be disciplined together and we must respect everything the headquarters says and their recommendations and surely that we can do much better and expect it. As I said, look at the example of New Zealand, which is best and best answered, responded to the pandemic precisely because it was closed in time, not by those countries that are completely opening up. What happened to Brazil and the United States? They ignored the masks, they didn't want to go to jail, and now they have the biggest problems. Therefore, I am convinced that as hard as they find it now for them, they will know why it is so difficult and sure that the big part is not working now, but in order to make a good tourist season sure that at the 9th month they will be grateful that we were disciplined and that this took a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30812	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30813	Dear MPs, the success of the measures especially when it comes to restrictions imposed on the economy does not depend on the number of MPs who spend all day repeating what they expect the ruling government to say. The success of the measures is measured by the real state of the field, and it greatly deviates from everything you've been saying today. Two arguments deny you and speak in favour of the fact that the situation is not good at all. The first is the fact that not all businessmen have received payments and support as it is announced and promised in the media, and the second is the biggest problem, the measures are very often illogical and contradictory, pointless, there is great discrimination between what is imposed on one and allowing others. Just out of curiosity, do you see any problem in what the government has been carrying out through its headquarters so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30814	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30815	Thank you very much, colleague Oreshkovic. You are happy to use the word “false. ” Did anyone on this side of the assembly tell a lie? Is it a lie that at the 2nd month, 29.2. last year we had a million-and-a-half insurance companies, and then in October 2,210 new insurance companies? Is it a lie when we say we had the best tourist season in the Mediterranean? Is it a lie when we say that we had 64% nights in July and August compared to 2019? What's a lie? There are 4,000 kunas plus contributions per worker, if I were late, I agree, everyone would like it to go faster and that, if people could immediately not know by the 5th of the month get it for the previous month, but they will definitely get it. That money will get our caterers and our entrepreneurs with some delays probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30816	- Mrs. Crescent. Oreshkovic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30817	So, I'm going to call 238, maybe it doesn't exactly fit this situation. You're telling a lie. My colleague, I haven't told a lie anywhere. I'm the one who said that you're really being denied and that you're really being denied. So you've yourself admitted to the fact that people who need support to be able to maintain their business right now, and they're not receiving support, so it's a fact and a finding...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30818	I'm late.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30819	...which deny what you're saying, but I didn't say the word "false," but facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30820	No, you're not, but you're happy to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30821	I let go, I let you answer, it was a replica, you know better than me, and this one, unfortunately, I have to give you a warning because it says so in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30822	Thank you very much. Comrade Martinchev, you don't have to be upset about our opposition, they do, and it sucks. If you've noticed this report is no good to them even though we've been harassed here for days until when we'll bring it in or when they'll have a chance to discuss it monthly, no. So now that we've brought it to them, it's no good, now it's... Like yesterday's strategy, nothing's wrong with them, it's just expensive, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? They're clear. The well-known Croatian hrvatski hrvatskih ul and they're not doing anything wrong, whatever we do is wrong. Just when they thought they had a theme, nothing, so remember what they were doing. When they had 4,000 infected a day, they said you didn't close the 8th month, no. Now that we've fallen a little bit, we've improved, now they're saying what you didn't open yesterday. And they can do it, but we don't, we're responsible, we tell the people that we'll make sure they're safe and we'll be the best we can be and that's the difference between us and them and don't get upset about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30823	Thank you very much, fellow Boric, just like that. We are responsible and we are responsible for both health and economic image of the Republic of Croatia and our citizens have given us confidence. And the latest figures again and the polls show that we have twice as much better, better indicators, that we have more support than the biggest opposition party has, I won't even talk about the small one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30824	You don't have any more replicas, and now it's time to go. Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30825	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course I'm going to criticise this report both methodologically and meaningfully, very rationally, very rationally. And I'm sorry that there's only a representative of the government, Minister Beros, because I'm going to talk about a topic that is not related to the Ministry of Health, regarding the Ministry of Economy, and I saw that the Ministry of Economy was represented here, so I'm sorry that it wasn't also a chapter that was called a chapter in the area of the Ministry of Economy as it was done with a chapter in the field of the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health. What's this about? We are talking methodologically today about the impact report on the implementation of the measures. For all those who do not know the effect is the result or result of some activity. The activity is a measure or measures taken to protect the public from infectious diseases. Are we clear on that? I think so. But the effects here are not a letter. I have not succeeded in the whole report, and neither in the chapter I wish to refer to, which is the chapter of the impact of measures on the economy, read any single impact in the economy, find any single effect, how one measure affected the economy, the number of employees, the number of unemployed, the number of closed companies, the number of companies with reduced income, anything, or no single impact. I will not refer to that even in this chapter concerning the economy, a copy paste method has been made and the fonts are different and it shows that very superficially and very quickly this report has somehow concluded. I'm sorry, I know all the ministries have a lot of work to do, but they have a lot of employees who could really do this a lot better. Article 47 The law on the protection of the public is laid down among other things by measures concerning the economy, which is a ban on the use of objects. So, it would be good if we were in the chapter of the impact of implementing measures, and that is also a ban on the use of objects if, for example, a catering facility, on the protection of the population from infectious diseases in the economy, it would be very good to see what the effect of that, I don't see. The two pages discuss strategic stockpiles, the acquisition of protective equipment, and not a word about the impact of this law on the economy, although the chapter is called the Impact of the implementation of measures in the area of the economy. There is no statistical data on how many companies are closed, how many workers are fired, how much the budget revenue reduction is due to certain items, how much businesses have used job conservation measures, how much of the company's share was used by HABOR or HAMAG's credit, how much subsidies are pumped into public losers, nothing. There is therefore no systematic or transparent list of measures, the economic measures taken in this House, or the results resulting from these measures. And we both know that whatever those measures are, some of them have been taken, they've been asked a lot more, but we know that they've been passed, so I don't understand why you didn't count them, why you didn't count the statistics and say that measure has brought it, that measure has brought it. I really don't see the reason. I mean it on purpose. I mean it on purpose. And the last thing about the real effects of the measures is the one that was published is the one from October. You know what the effect is? The effect is that employers seeking support in October are 25,000, micro 600, small 150 and 25 large. So you see how much they hire. We have that data, too, but the latest data is from October. What about November, what about December when these measures were adopted, the end of November and December where the economy suffered most. Why are these measures not mentioned and why are the effects of these measures not indicated? It is simply amazing for me to read or receive a material report on the effects of the measures, and that we cannot discuss the effects today because they are not listed or are not there or are very bad, so they are hiding. And they have these measures of very large reprecision on the economy. We're all aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30826	Thank you, too. You have a few replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Matko Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30827	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, colleague Ahmetovic, you obviously did not listen carefully to Mr. Boric just now when he told you what you were doing when you had one responsible majority on the other. The responsible majority, who once again was strutting about how they beat the crown and how the crowns were gone, and then we got that blow back worse than we were and, just happened to us something unexpected that no one could expect in the third month, and we knew about the pandemic now. We are unprepared to enter this second, second half of the battle with the crown and what is now being sold to citizens by the responsible ruling majority that the situation is much better than it is, and unfortunately it is not. Our economy is on the air, tourist season is questionable, and we don't know what's waiting for us in a month, two or three if there's going to be a third wave, a new strain, what's going to happen to us. So due to the poor preparation of the second wave of pandemic that the whole of Europe was expecting, we unfortunately entered completely Unprepared and I don't understand how you haven't figured it out by now. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30828	Thank you very much. Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30829	Thank you very much. Well, I didn't expect much more from a representative of Boric or any of the ruling majority MPs. However, I understand them they cannot defend this report otherwise because they have nothing to defend. Therefore, there is no effect in the report on the effects of the measures. And there's nothing more to them than to appeal to the 2020 election and say we're the government and it's going to be what we say. Likewise, the Prime Minister, who does not answer the current hour to questions, calls for some kind of leaps, on people's proverbs, personally discredits people and simply avoids answering a very specific question. What's problematic is that we spent all day today each of us MPs discussing a report that isn't a report. And it's amazing to me that the Ministers put you in that position to defend something as Minister of Health. There isn't. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30830	Thank you. Dear Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Ahmetovic, of course we can hold onto words, whether there are so many words or so, but when we talk about effects, the effects are clear to you and to me. From your ranks, remember the beginning of the epidemic there was a speech that there would be 400,000 unemployed, is there any? We've got more employees than we've ever had before. So it's not true that, we have 400,000 employees, it's an effect. The effect is also how many people we have on the respirator today, how many people we have today, that's the effect. You can read every day from portals, newspapers, televisions, I don't believe anyone here is aware of it, or you might think we're in the same position as some far richer countries that have much worse effects for which you're looking. And the story of us not being Being ready for the second wave is pure nonsense. [[Thank you, thank you.]] It's completely... Just like we're getting ready. [[Thank you very much.]] for a possible third wave. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30832	Thank you very much. Mrs Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30833	Dear colleague Reiner, so I have a few problems with your discussion, you or you haven't listened to what I'm talking about, or you deliberately shut up, which I'm not surprised because you as an academic, I believe you would not have agreed to even look at a student who writes the title The effects of implementing measures, and then is unable to write a single effect. And if you're telling me what the effects are I'm asking you, and why didn't you write a report on the effects of implementing the measures when it has so much effect? We are MPs here who must represent the people, the people have chosen us to represent them, and we are unable to write a report on the effects of measures, not one single effect. What are you ashamed of? Is there any? They're gone because otherwise you'd have written them, otherwise you'd have written them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30834	Interesting discussion, it seems, has more success than the report says. Replica, Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30835	Unfortunately, the report has no effect there is a problem, so we can list a lot of them from the papers, but whether it's listed in the report itself is not, it's definitely not, there's definitely a colleague who's right. My colleagues have this other problem, we should be learning something now based on all this data, we should have already had some experience based on which... when a new wave of crisis occurs. So not only were we cut off for some data, for numerical data, for a real report that would mean something to us, we're also cut off for future steps that we could take if there was a new wave.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30836	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30837	Thank you very much. Well, that's exactly why it's amazing for me that the ruling didn't bother writing down, writing down one single effect. If I were ruling she'd brag about what you're trying to do right now if there were effects, I don't know why you didn't boast. Well, it's not really true what the President of the Parliament said was a problem "in stupid people", so don't tell me that. We gave you literally space to boast of the effects of your measures, and of course there would be room to then discuss these effects and to propose perhaps more stringent measures or less sharp measures or different kinds of measures then we could talk about some comparison and tell you what to do next. This is really underestimating common sense and the debate of all the MPs here was supposed to look like they're going to shut up, stop and shut up for one minute because they have nothing to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30838	Thank you very much. Mr. Ante Deur's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30839	Honorable MPs. In 238, by calling your colleagues stupid, you should have been practicing for years how stupid they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30840	Mr. Deur, I have to give you a warning because it was a replica. ... I gave a warning, I think I gave a warning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And what do you now have a breach of the Rules of Procedure? About the same thing? You know that... warning, if the warning is a warning, I can't give four warnings now. And I'll give my word instead of Mr. Rules of Procedure's injuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30841	Thank you. Dear colleague Ahmetovic. Based on what you said, it's not enough effects, but I noticed there's one more thing missing in the report, and that's how it was communicated to the public. There is nothing about this report, and it is a very important thing because if we citizens expect to respect some measures, to be disciplined, then it was necessary to come up with a way of communicating with them. And I think it's one big problem at headquarters, except for the fact that it's been around the Parliament for 10 months. We had some PR stunts like those children's drawings of superheroes you remember well all of that then we had one uniform in Europe, which is that members of headquarters every day have press conferences, and then all 4.5 members go on all national televisions every night. And then what happened is that every inflation leads to the devaluation and confusion of people or that members of the Scientific Council who have not been meeting for a month now give contradictory statements about the same things in public. It seems to me that this is a very badly done segment and that it is something that is missing in this report, so how this work has been reported and how public contact has been maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30842	Time. Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ahmetovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30843	Thank you very much. You're absolutely right. Of course, the biggest problem is that the report on the effects of the measures has no effect, so there is no mention of the effects, but that I will respond to your replica. So you know what the communication of the rulings is, the prime minister doesn't answer the questions, the prime minister and the government or members of the government at press conferences don't answer the questions of journalists, although they call journalists, that journalists are someone's lawyers. The MPs also call for opposition to any question or debate of the parliamentary representative to win the elections in the 7th month 2020. Therefore, communication is entirely foreign to the ruling and ruling majority, and we did not expect that if it did not communicate orally that it would then communicate in writing, so I repeat that the public knows that the report on the effects of the implementation of the measures is not listed any of the only effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30844	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Ahmetovic, we're done with the replicas. Now it's Mr. Crucifixe's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30845	My colleagues and fellow MPs. We in this House are being brought into a state of cognitive dissonance because we are being told in this whole story about covid that we are both the most irrelevant and most important people in Croatia. We are the most irrelevant because there has obviously been no way for 10 months so far -...so they do not bring the parliaments of the Republic to submit the report to the Parliament, quite differently than in other European countries and parliaments. We've heard these stories, so we don't bring parliaments anywhere that now we all have to vote every step of the way, of course it's not, but we've had to do some normal rhythms at least a month or two months to track what's going on, it's gone, so we're irrelevant. And then, on the other hand, we suddenly turned out to be very important because this promotional vaccination action, where in other countries the president, the prime minister, was vaccinated and the pope, was not left at that level, but we were honored by parliamentary representatives, so our colleagues who did not get over the crown had a chance to get the vaccine even though they were in the '30s, 40s even though they had excellent health before people who needed it and who wanted to be vaccinated. And then it happened after this promotional vaccination action was carried out that we gave the public an example, and at the same time it was the worst-rated assembly, and the least trust was given to the citizens in the assembly, but this is exactly the kind of assembly they don't trust will give them the confidence that they will be vaccinated after this vaccination has been carried out in the assembly, after we have received HINA's announcement that Mayor Cacic is being vaccinated with the councils of the Varazdin County older than 65. where again the question arises why would a healthy 66-year-old councilman in Varazdin get a vaccine before a chronically ill 90-year-old? But all of this aside, when it's all over now, we've learned that the vaccines don't exist for those who want to, repeat, vaccinate and who need it. There's no vaccine. There was a debacle at EU level that surprised only the uninformed. The same thing structurally you could see for the migrant crisis, as soon as the problem arises that skeletal bureaucratic structure with sub-optimated apparently personnel that are leading to the collapse. So we have a situation that the UK has vaccinated 10% of the population, the EU 1.9% or that Serbia has now given us 1,000% more vaccines than Croatia. We've heard from Minister Beros that he doesn't know what these contracts are, we trust, so at EU level that someone thinks someone's doing this thing well, and we see how it's done, there's no vaccine. Here is today the vaccine that we are waiting for AstraZenec today Robert Koch Institute of Epidemiological State German comes out with the the thesis that it is ineffective for the elderly of 65. and that it is not used on them, who knows what else will come out. So, when he needs him gone, and when we don't need him, we'll probably have him too, so we'll either donate him, and it's not clear to who else because they're better, you get donations, or we'll have to take care of him expensively, I'm afraid as medical waste. I will no longer return to the media, the scientific advice and confusion created in public for the lack of parameters but just a few more illogicalities. We are being threatened by a serious host action. What we saw in Rome "I am opening", "IoApro", so that people will simply open up and that some people will come, can't survive because they experience the illogical measures that coffee can't be given outside, and, and the baker can. Or that he can't open that table at least standing on the terrace, and people are standing there with that coffee from the bakery, standing next to each other, so complete separation from reality. Why not open sports facilities? We will have a huge problem of obesity, we already have it, the obesity of children who are already too much in front of screens, now especially in these covid schools, and the problem is adult obesity problem. I'll start by myself, I've got three or four pounds at the time of the crown. Our prime minister, as far as I can see, has got two or three times as much, but he's well more successful at everything than we are, even in that kind of growth. So, we will face serious health consequences and think about it because the health problem with the crown is not only the crown but all indirect health problems that will result from lockdown and, and, and stress and closure of sports content and, and other elements. All of this should have been taken into account, unfortunately in this report it, it lacks as many other elements and therefore it cannot be acceptable for us. And about following the EU in everything bad, and not following in a good custom is that public procurement goes to getting medical equipment not to speak because with us as if importing weapons, the country we are at war under the embargo is still secretive and beyond public procurement. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30846	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30847	Dear colleague Rasudiæ, in a replica preceded by this individual debate of yours, you touched the media communication of the headquarters, and now you spoke in a debate about opening hospitality facilities. I think the whole public was in some kind of almost blinking expectation that decisions would be made today by the government, and nothing happened. It also shows how bad communication is. There was an opening, a milder measure, the opening of the economy, nothing happened today, and it only contributed more to this rebellion that you were talking about, the owner of the fitness center, the gym, people who expected something to happen today, and the reaction could be exactly what you announced without this intervention, or without the permission of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30848	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30849	Thank you. It's all a lack of parameters problem. We do not know on the basis of which parameters the precise decision was made today to move students from 5th to 8th grade of primary school to school, and gyms in spite of this increase that we all had who more or less remained closed or catering facilities even the terrace that could not be opened. So, I'd like to know now they mention that the measures will be reconsidered in mid-February, give us the parameters. This is how many infected or hospitalized it takes to open the terraces of catering facilities or to close schools again if the number increases. We don't know anything, we're constantly at some level of prosecution, putting not into God's hands but some of the higher instances that decide, and it has proved most devastating that the European institutions can solve the matter, so today we're with the vaccines where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30850	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30851	Fellow Members of the Assembly, the vaccine has already been said quite a bit today, although not enough in view of the crisis that is clearly coming to us. I will remind myself just once again that there was a need to know what to do and that this situation could be expected, and that it would respond in a timely manner. Other euro-parliamentaries French, for example, the euro-parliamentarians have long questioned the validity of the deal with pharmaceutical companies and worked to see them and see irregularities. When I asked that question last week at the current prime minister, which we make the contracts transparent, the answer was that I like to read from the paper. So after that, she had just escalated this crisis, and it would have been more useful if we could have told the public at that time what was expected of them, not to be disgusted by it ourselves. I will return to the case of public procurement, which is an extremely important issue, a question that we have completely skipped in Croatia. So we said we wouldn't open public procurement because it's our strategic interest. The report by the UN special rapporteur also mentioned in 2017 that health care is among the most profitable and corrupt sectors. In Slovenia we already had an affair of corruption related to public procurement, we know where we are on the corruption index and where Slovenia is. Taking into account the corruption history of some of our ministers, mayors and mayors, it is sufficient to specify the latest cases such as the one from Požega rightly we can suspect that the circumvention of the Public Procurement Act is a cover-up of someone's private interests. Already a summer review of companies that are not included here in this report which is not concerned with the effects anyway, but even in that list of measures is not detailed enough, it shows that the procurement of some prominent HDZ nephews has yet to follow. So, the public procurement that we reveal by this report at EU level can be and we are part of this public procurement, while in Croatia we say that public procurement cannot be with us because it is our strategic interest. For Croatia sheriff's laws, in front of the EU washed face. I'm also going to rely on what measures to take further. The report said as the epidemiological situation differed significantly from county to county, the headquarters respected the county's proposals and hurriedly introduced measures on their proposal, when the epidemiological situation was largely equated across Croatia again began to make decisions introducing measures for the whole of Croatia. Where's the analysis of the current situation? What was presented in the report is incorrect. According to the latest data in Istria, we have a 3 times better situation than in Zagreb, and 5 times worse in Sisak-Moslavina County. Where there's an equal situation in all counties, it's not as bad anymore and that's why we can't have a scoreboard approach or county criteria. If it doesn't matter what the situation in which the county is, then why schools can be decided at the county level. Such illogicalities are the reason why citizens are unable to accept the current measures and restrictions resulting in their revolt and disrespect and those measures that would be beneficial to them and to society and serve to protect their health and to combat the pandemic. The second report says that in areas where appropriate epidemiological measures have been delayed or have not been consistently implemented, an exponential increase in the number of cases has been observed. What do you mean, it was late, it wasn't late, someone was late, who was late, whose responsibility was that, why wasn't this backed up by a numerical analysis? Obviously, it is known and admits that something had to be done before. Where did this conclusion come from? Only with which I can conclude on the trail of these outstanding questions that this report devalues to the extent that no one seriously in the assembly wants to accept it except those who need to conclude it with the following. This report corresponds to the needs of the given moment and is only there as long as the circumstances require just like all epidemiological measures. And which means the days of the moment and what are the circumstances of this is for our citizens and for us to further pursue it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30852	We have one replica, a respected representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30853	Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, this comparison of yours is actually about how schools that are left to each country's national decision-making offices, while e.g. The catering facilities have different situations from the county to the county is decided by the state and at this point, although the expected opening is not going in that direction. Not that it is not going in the direction of opening catering facilities, but it is not allowed to give or to, that innkeepers can issue coffee for outside as far as they can, for example. Bakeries or, for example, restaurants. So it didn't go into any kind of discount and it turns out that there are double criteria or double standards in other cases. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30854	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30855	Logic, or usually, does not offend the common sense of our citizens, is a prerequisite for accepting any restrictions on our freedoms. And accepting these restrictions on our freedoms is a prerequisite for the struggle and successful outcome of this crown crisis that we all witness. So by doing this, the government shoots itself in the legs, and then we have further illogicality and further provisions of the cloudy content of the need of a given moment and of similarity that actually speak of nothing and mean nothing at all. What I said with schools and with counties, very simply if that is the criterion why it can't be applied to everyone, if it's not the criterion why schools aren't open everywhere, why is the situation in the counties even mentioned? Citizens have the right to a minimum not to insult common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30856	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30857	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. I'm going to look back for a short time on something that we actually missed today and talk about, actually, how the headquarters got into our lives. Well, it's a bit of a raid. The moment the headquarters showed up, we were all a little freaked out by the appearance of some new virus that caused the world's pandemic never seen before today. At the time, few people thought about the Civil Protection System Act, few who thought about the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the public against the spread of infectious diseases, few who thought about what they really were, what their purpose is, what they should serve and what their powers are and how they should be organised. And for nothing then, many problems were warned by constitutional experts because there were no ears that could hear them. The headquarters should exist for a state of emergency within it should, by law, be pre-prepared, trained, pre-named people. All that wasn't the moment this headquarters came into existence. Such a headquarters should manage some extraordinary situations, unforeseen, critical, difolt situations, by logic things are designed in such a way or happen in such a way that they last for a short time. The headquarters should be something fleeting. However, this and this headquarters became something permanent because the crown has become something lasting in our lives, despite once or possibly even twice declaring victory over that virus. This and such headquarters lasted until the first next disaster, until the earthquake, and then we realized that this and this headquarters no longer suits our needs, so we remembered to form another one, and now we have two, I guess. And again, once again, we were warned by constitutional experts, screamed, but the law does not really predict. And I could now cut down the law as a whole or as a provision, unfortunately, I don't have time for that, and I still wouldn't be able to say everything that's in the implementation and behavior of such a headquarters in question. I can only conclude that this kind of headquarters has become its own purpose. The content of daily presses creates more of an atmosphere of psychosis than answers the question of how Croatia manages with all the situations that result from the coronary crisis. And that's where we get the basic problem I want to devote this speech to. The main question we have to answer is who actually manages this crisis, can it be headquarters? The headquarters has long become a pure propaganda performance, compromised, politicised, aside from the fact that in some way the Constitutional Court has given it its blessing and Amen, aside from the fact that most citizens, entrepreneurs and economies feel that their measures are very often insulting to logic and common sense, aside from the fact that this headquarters, with its measures, has created great inequality and legal uncertainty, aside from the fact that today's report, which is the topic of the agenda, is completely hollow and empty, and I really thank my colleague Ahmetovic for making that point. What it must raise awareness of, above all, of the opposition in HS is the fact that the crown overcomes questions that could or should be in the domain of both the powers of this and this kind of headquarters. The headquarters began to meddle and interfere in making decisions that go beyond the limits of those emergency intervention measures when the headquarters actually coordinated with the civilian system because it thus compensated all of what the state at that time was unable to organise itself. When we had an interpretation of the government's work I then said that the headquarters became an ordinary mask behind which Andrej Plenkovic hides his cowardice and inability to be the one who, as a government, manages the state and with all the consequences that the coronaryvirus carries with him. I urge the opposition MPs to consider how we will respond to such reports in the future, which we will propose as an alternative. The fact is that a good part of not only the entrepreneurs, not only the hosts, but other sectors are complaining about what this kind of headquarters is unbeliefable, illogical, no arguments, no explanations, no criteria every day imposes and creates, and if in the next discussions we will not talk about that something is a product of communist or as you have said, one-minded systems, we have created a mindless system, and we need criteria, we need explanations, we need predictability, we need equality, we need trust, and only then will we be able to answer the question of whether the whole government should be called to responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30858	The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30859	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. Long awaited Report on the effects of the measures implemented and the Law on the Protection of the public, we waited so long for the opposition to be almost and gone, just as we waited for it to sit in these halls staring empty, it was sought by the ultimate Constitutional Court had to react. Of course, he only sits in the O.R., everyone else is more or less empty. So much for this opposition to ours that isn't easy, so they're bothered by the report they've been looking for. Now it's hollow, empty, lame, etc., that it doesn't have any effect. Here I'm going to count some of those because it's been a year not only in terms of the measures he's brought to headquarters, but also in political life, so we've got some kind of effect. Here I will say in my municipality I have since 11.3. we have had zero infected and today I have zero infected, the last 15 days we have no one and I am happy because we respected measures and in summer we didn't have anyone and that somehow it is controlled with everything proposed as a recommendation and whoever wants to listen, listen, who won't, much depends on the citizens. 10 months of RH 230,978 infected with today, I did little and pulled from this 15.1. when the report, today 619, died in total unfortunately 4,943, active one very interesting number 3.173, see a small table of active cases in all other countries and on the respirator 128. Tested a million 175 thousand 831 people, almost every fourth and more of them in the Republic of Croatia. There were some ratings. In the 3rd month, last HDZ 26.7%, SDP 29.3%, March 2020. Home movement 11.5%, today HDZ 31.1, SDP 16.6. Homeland movement and everyone else is below 10. It is one of the effects of the pandemic on political life in the Republic of Croatia. I guess someone couldn't handle it, some of them kept working and trying to show they knew what they were doing, and today it's kind of a work effect of that government that's more or less similar today after a year, a little less than a year, and we have what we have. Dalia managed, she found a party in the meantime with which to join the parliament, We can become one of the respectable political options at that earthquake managed to take advantage of the moment and earthquakes and some situations entered the Croatian Parliament, MOST progressed, have a better rating today than in the 3rd month of last year. There, it works positively no matter what this report is wrong, but it has its own thing that might interest you. And now we hear that we're failed again, when we're at 4,000 we're not good and we're bad, when we're at 619 again we're bad and what's wrong or wrong, we didn't open the cafes. When we closed the cafes on 28.11. we closed it while everyone else was already closed, then they said why didn't you shut them down in 15.9. when you felt the second wave going, we remember these discussions, today when they better say why you don't open them now, which you're punishing them, and then we're watching together. We closed the cafes at 3rd month 18.3. and opened them 11.5. means 53 days, and now 60 days, that's 113 days, if it takes 30 days, we'll get to some 5 months of closed catering facilities. And we might all like to have a place to sit and drink coffee, talk etc., and I'm not against them having their own desires etc., but let's look at others how many cafes and catering facilities work in Germany, Austria, let's look at winter resorts, empty without any activity. In other countries that have also prepared themselves for this time of winter, when they have also had the season and they live on it. Of course, there are no good parameters to satisfy our opposition. Why? Because they're public because they don't believe what they see or the result, they don't believe, they don't care, and then we have to accept a report like this because we think this minister is doing well, that the headquarters Do your job well and we'll continue to do our job well [[Thank you very much.]] Because the citizens chose us for it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30860	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30861	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, I have realized that the problem here is that the opposition does not understand that they and we have been elected by the same people, Croats and Croats, only that it is obviously a problem that we have received twice as much as they and they simply cannot accept it as if it were so. What I was about to say about the pandemic, when we were 11 months old when we were the worst of all, this assembly was screaming out of it the worst, the worst, the worst. Now that we're the best in the opposition, you haven't heard that someone praised the minister or the headquarters. So they just can't figure it out, and they keep saying they're just telling the truth and what's true, but then tell them we're the best right now, right? And this report I took it as a report on health effects, that there would be opportunities to talk about economic effects, but that now it's primarily a man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30862	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30863	Thank you very much. My colleague Rada Simičević, so here I don't know what kind of answers I have, you know we just live with them every day not and it's not easy, but we're really trying to get them to understand what we're doing because everything from opposition seems to them. Says one old lady hasn't given birth to anyone yet. And you can't please this opposition, so there isn't a result, a document or anything we do to suit them. And that's why it was that interesting comparison of party ratings in a year, a little less than a year, so the 3rd month last year, and time now let's say, maybe you should take it and the 1st month wasn't much different that was after the presidential election. So you can see everything. So you have to notice that you're not doing something right and that's our suggestion to them, but they don't get it. That you can't just criticize, offer nothing, and expect citizens to accept you just like that, and yet the local elections are coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30864	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30865	Here's what the opposition is talking about in this assembly, we're talking about the legal system, we're talking about how to improve the work of institutions, we talk about and discuss how to solve our citizens' problems, and what HDZ says about it, says this way we get 16.4% of the voter's vote, the more corrupt we are, the stronger we are. Comrade Boric, let me tell you frankly, you are not so strong at all. You know what's only strong? There is a strong fear in you, in the entire HDZ and in the entire food chain that is paralysing in this country along with you. I kind of feel sorry for you, but the opposition will continue to talk about everything I said, about improving the legal system, about strengthening institutions and solving our citizens' problems. I know you're not up to it, and I don't feel bad about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30866	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30867	Every time you do the same thing, you're negative for us again. If we're worth 16% doesn't know the total electoral body, how much is the Centre worth, smart or how did you get by, by name and last name? 0.04% or what it's worth. What makes you think it's more than 16, why do you think you're worth more than 60 of us here? Why are we people without a résumé, a career of broken, criminals and all that, and you're something else fair, smart, etc.? So the president, he said himself, I think the President of the Republic that he brought you with Ibler to be the chairman of the commission. I'm not even gonna tell you how he described you. I'm not gonna say that because it looked bad to me, too. Is then elected here not, most, without HDZ, we wanted, we knew that you would deal with politics and that you would see members of the HDZ special eyes in that commission and obviously you did so. And now you're where you wanted to be But don't underestimate us. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30868	The honourable representative Oreskovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30869	238th apparently insulting the parliamentary attorney. Now I'm not going to question whether you really want to say that you're politically setting up absolutely all the key functions in independent bodies, and then what were we discussing about the report by the President of the Supreme Court, the chief state's attorney and beyond? But now it's on the side. When we're careers and résumés, I'm just going to name two names Žinić, Tušek, here's the press conference, I guess it boasts of its fantastic professional and other results. Don't you think that's the way it is?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30870	Dear Representative Oreskovic, you know that it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure you get a second warning. Please be careful the third is of course taking away the words until the end of the debate. We are going to the next replica of the respected representative Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30871	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, since it takes a lot more time for you to tell me what you know about this subject, so here I am going to throw each other the same thing about this report. Activities on the protection of the health of our citizens, and in particular the economies took over and took over both the government and the headquarters, but the units of local self-government, cities and municipalities must also. Many cities and municipalities, and I am sure that you, as chief of staff, have taken certain steps and measures such as the release of public area payments, the payment of public space rentals, the release of payment of municipal fees and so on. So here's a question of what you've done for your residents?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30872	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30873	Thank you very much. My colleagues here, now I'm done with the council, they said we've made a decision to cut the consumption tax for this year, so these are again amounts that aren't small and helpful. Let's just say, unlike my colleague Oreshkovic, she's not going to contribute anything, except that she's going to stay here in these phonograms of the Parliament that she said something and mostly negative about us. And that she said that when the Parliament called it not politics, that she was independent. I don't know that they sit here... activists of the association or I don't know what they don't, citizens who aren't committed. There the politicians were sitting, sitting down from the SDP had some majority, without HDZ they put it in the commission, say no, and she judged that she was judging and even here she used the cases she tried to say to them, here you were in HDZ not well I was judging you, no, I did. Now that's bad in politics and it needs to be fixed and when there's a story about this conflict of interest we'll probably have some things that we need a little independent of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30874	Thank you very much. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30875	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to be present today in this debate and listen to colleagues and colleagues looking for a real hair in the egg in this report, which was built on 71 pages, describing all the positive activities committed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by President Plenkovic, the Minister of Health present here, the Minister of Internal Affairs who put this problem and this crisis situation that took place in the Republic of Croatia, caused by this pandemic of infectious disease which has so far been unexperienced in our premises and which has been such that it has to resort to all relevant ways and innovations to combat itself as soon as possible. The report clearly lists all the activities that the headquarters and government have spent through this past time and the results that are visible today clearly indicate that in the first stage or in the first half as some call it, as in this second half, because now they are just feeling slightly visible results that are clearly shown in numbers, as well as in people’s lives. I believe they wouldn't talk about the effects here if I could overcome that old folk proverb that says, I can forgive you anything but success I can't. So today, an opposition is being held that many times instead of joint appearances, common ideas, joint implementation of measures to counter the epidemic, joint information activities and joint public appearances in order to consistently present the measures brought by experts at headquarters, brought by the ministry, in order to send a clear message that we must jointly fight what has hit us. Instead, we experience representatives of the people in HS calling for a boycott of vaccinations, boycotting their own vaccination when they are assured of it without realizing what their role is. Today, when it is necessary under urgent procedures to bring many times the legislative changes that would have been made in further work and which would have been built in the Law on the Protection of the public from the epidemic as well as from the other difficulties that have hit us, but they are not today the subject of this report and this debate, I believe that all together we must become aware of what is happening and how we act, not looking for what leads to the goal, and the goal is victory. If we were looking for hair like this in an egg for five years of Homeland War, it certainly wouldn't have worked, either with this pandemic. I would once again like to call upon all those who listen to this today's performances towards our citizens, respecting all the measures, making the best decisions, coordinating, appealing to the awareness that no one is guilty in today's government that the vaccine did not arrive in due time, which certain suppliers took advantage of the possibility of making more money, it is certainly not the minister, nor the ministry, nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Everyone would be happy if it came immediately to the contingent that the most difficult part could be split, but we as representatives of the people in HS must show an example of being aware of the measures, to be aware when it is necessary to show that there is no need to be afraid of vaccines and to be an example in performances, not critics without a background. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't have efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30876	Thank you. We have one replica, the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30877	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Djakic, I am pleased that you have used your individual debate to call for unity and unity, which is ruling, which is opposition. We have to go back a little a year and those numbers from that first wave, if we weren't unique, if we hadn't thought together, if we hadn't listened to headquarters, and here's the minister, I don't think we'd have the season as tourist we had. Today when we are in the second wave when we are afraid of maybe some third wave or other problems that this crown crisis can bring, we hear from the opposition not only criticism but also in some way calling exactly on resistance and government and headquarters. I don't think that's healthy right now. The season will happen literally tomorrow, if we don't show unity what you've called for, I think we're going to lose a lot of weight on that plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30878	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30879	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. You've made a good point, I've just come from my own personal example and called for a common cause and a common struggle against this pandemic. And I also might have used it, but here I am, in response to you, I am grateful to all the health care professionals who took care of me and all those who are alive today. They worked so consciously, so persistently, so many badges and applied health care as much as they could and arrived to make the most of their lives. What I'm saying today is I believe that everyone recognizes, every reasonable, every smart, and will no longer give criticism, but will commend the work that has been done so far, the efforts of the headquarters, the doctor, the medical staff, all those who watch and care for the Croatian people day and night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30880	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Deura.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30881	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is certain that this report comes at a moment when we are still in a difficult situation, but it shows us one maturity and efficiency, the responsibility of the people, the government and Minister Beros and Minister Bozinović and the entire staff of headquarters dealing with it. Here's the last year when it all started when we found ourselves in a situation as a people, but not only as a country of Croatia but as an unknown Europe, the profession entered into an unknown in Europe and all together, fear, uncertainty. At that moment, the government reacted best, the headquarters really gained great trust from all of the Croatian people and at that point the best measures were taken. Unfortunately, even then, we had certain colleagues and friends from the opposition who didn't understand the moment. We don't have to deal well is a good opposition is for the government to be even better, and unfortunately we know that our opposition often enters the form of activists. Surely these political choices that were coming to us and that's understandable, but we must understand that this coronary virus is indeed a terrible, earthquake that happened first in Zagreb, and then Zagreb County and Sisak-Moslavina County with this covid was terrifying. Today, imagine President Tudjman was 30 years ago. He didn't make decisions, he didn't have the courage to lead his people in difficult times, today they're just as difficult moments, health, uncertainty, dying, and when it's a profession, we see that it's not just Croatia, the whole of Europe is in one uncertainty and in fear of lockdown. Indeed this high house here demands and asks us to be truly discreet, to understand that they are asking us to make decisions, to be the government that can and who knows, and this government knows, has courage, to face both jobs and health. Today, this vaccine is something we all expect together, like all citizens. Let's not go into the debate now who first vaccinated. First we've been attacking who's going to take that vaccine, so why don't you be the first one when the headquarters is inoculated first, why aren't you the second one? My people, that's something that's really out of your mind. We are aware of the different opinions and criticisms, the social correction must exist. Once again I want to say good opposition makes an even better government, so please don't really let us, here's my colleague Ahmetovic, I'm sorry she's not here, she used a very ugly word, I'm sorry I reacted, it's not perhaps the most appropriate, but I think you should call your colleagues in shape the way she said it is not worthy, nor is it okay. And I'm asking you to keep an eye on these things because surely we have more important things tonight than we do, and I respect that it can also be in the SDP a little bit nervous because the situation isn't very good, but let's not let ourselves be offended about it. Here, surely, we want this report to be accepted because it's good, it's real and let's really be us as parliamentary representatives worthy of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30882	First of all, was it a breach of the Rules of Procedure or something, yes? Dear Representative Brumnic, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30883	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly is injured. In 238, a colleague in his debate made it clear that counterpart Mirela Ahmetovic said something, she said he quoted the speaker of the assembly that he told his colleagues that they were something on the g, but I do not remember exactly what the word was going on, so that I did not make a mistake. So you should've warned the MP not to make a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30884	My colleague Brumnic, read the Rules of Procedure at last, and you will see that what you think is false or what I think is false is completely irrelevant. Question is, is the Rules of Procedure injured or not? No injured Rules of Procedure, you've abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a second warning. We have a replica of Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30885	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Deur, you were saying how important it is to actually look for what is positive, even in difficult situations because what is positive can carry us forward. But we see that there are people who are focused on seeing only what is negative or what is not as good as a fly entering the room looking for only dirt unlike a bee that seeks what is sweet to produce honey from it. So it is important to focus here and see who wants good for Croatia, who wants to get out of difficult situations and move forward so that our citizens get adequate health care and live better. It is not a denial of the mistakes that occur in every resort and in us as humans, but it is the strength to come out of what may be badly done stronger and to learn from mistakes, and as you said we should be positive and in this situation which is challenging to try to direct us to this positive way forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30886	Here, thank you, esteemed MP. Surely the Croatian people headed by the Croatian government have shown in this time that they really know how to deal with the most difficult situations and problems and with a virus that really hit quickly and something that nobody expected. In addition to the earthquake that hit and destroyed so many houses after the Homeland War and the County which has really been hard to go through again with this earthquake, uncertainty and all the institutions within Croatia have responded well, it has quickly been done, sure that it can always be faster, better, but we think that the Croatian government has certainly done what is best and most effective at the moment. And you've done very well comparing bees and flies, which is important for all of our colleagues to really, I believe they've listened well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30887	The next replica of respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30888	Here I was proud to listen to the reviews of the figures and the actions of members of the opposition in HS, which really moved me because this is how it looks like we have an alliance of communists on the one hand, and on the other hand we have a socialist alliance. So then I ask Mr. Deur to write to us in the future how he wants us to behave in HS, and if we need to see, to give us, to share the speeches he wants to hear in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30889	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30890	Thank you, Your Honor, thank you very much for saying that. Surely I believe that you, as one experienced man, know how to behave and have your own political agenda. We are all here together, and this is the Croatian state and the Croatian people, and I believe that it will grace us in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30891	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30892	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Deur, last year we talked a lot about this level of reporting of the Croatian Assembly about the activities and the fight against the crown of the virus, and we know how much opposition she then insisted on, and that there should be monthly reports and quarterly reports and we thought that when and when these reports go, when and when these reports start that this will go in a completely different direction, we will not teach the opposition how to act as an opposition. Criticism is a normal thing and we want it, and when we look at it all day long, here it will be soon and 7 o'clock in the afternoon I think we've followed it, wasted the day here and watch it's easy for us to discuss everything here, but I'm sorry that we wasted the day here's the Minister of Health, but he didn't feel the need for it, but he didn't feel the possibility to respond to a concrete proposal from the opposition. So they keep talking about some effects, no effect, in effects we live with the coronary virus for a year. It's the effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30893	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30894	Thank you. Dear MPs are certain that the effects and jobs, above all, the preservation of jobs, that the salaries are paid, very certainly in this situation there are many abnormal situations, unfortunately because the system itself that happened, but unfortunately or fortunately we have, now we have every little parliamentary one, and now the local elections are coming and I believe that this is the only agenda of our colleagues right now why they are acting like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30895	And the next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30896	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Deur, you have well noticed that in difficult times, challenging times need to make decisions quickly and resolutely. That's why this national headquarters was formed. There have also been proposals here for the assessment of its constitutionality and the issue of the constitutionality of the measures it adopts. It was said here that certain constitutional experts warned of this, but I still consider it relevant what the Constitutional Court said in September with its solution. The question arises, or we imagine the situation, that in fact these measures are specifically prescribed by the Law on the Protection of the public against the Infectious Diseases each time the Assembly discusses, that each time the Parliament decides, so where they would come from. So for this reason, we have a headquarters, so a national headquarters that is determined, well and we see with regard to numbers doing its job, and most importantly, it can react quickly unlike some other bodies that do not have that option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30897	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30898	Thank you, Your Honor, surely throughout all this time that we have been going through very difficult, our fellow citizens show full confidence in the Croatian Government and this shows that we are doing well with all the difficulties we are going through and the inability and many problems, but it shows that decisions are good and that they are being well implemented and that we have full confidence in what the Croatian Government and headquarters are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30899	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30900	Dear Ministers, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs first to thank the minister and all health professionals for their efforts and effects in the fight in this crown crisis. Secondly, I would like to thank Mr Djakic, who has agreed with the opposition that it is actually a report on measures, not an impact report, not a report on the effects of measures. And third Mr. Deur, you're just here to remind you, colleague Ahmetovic quoted the president as saying. It wasn't her words, it was the president's quote. Just so you know. Ministers through your answers and discussions and replicas clearly see that you personally understood all the replicas and discussions as an attack on yourself and attack on headquarters, but I would ask you to understand that we expected to get an impact report, that report we didn't actually get. We read in the papers that are effective, we know all that, but in this report there are no effects. I was taught when I wrote a report that based on that report, I could do some corrective action, corrective measures, unfortunately on this basis, there's nothing we can do about it because there's no such data in there. So, what it would like to show you in its presentation is that it may be some additional power with a goal that, in the coming period, you and the headquarters may work better and that we can fight not with the pandemic more successfully than with the consequences of the pandemic. It means the consequences it brings. These are the consequences of economics, education, etc. In the replica of your presentation, I asked three questions, why don't we follow the measures of those who achieved the best results with Covid, you said it couldn't be copied. It was not my intention to rewrite something, it was my intention to draw attention to it so that it might be good to consider their working principles, their way of monitoring the infection, their principles and to put it all in context and in our conditions in Croatia. The answer to the question why we're no longer looking for the person who infected a person, I didn't get an answer, but I have to draw attention to the fact that over the past month, there's a very large number of people who don't know where they've been infected, who infected them, and the people who infected them are still walking freely, and they're actually a potential source of infection for others. And that's a big problem. Unfortunately, here's one of my famous girls at home brought Covid home to her mother who didn't leave the house and her mother died in seven days. And these are really big problems. If you want, I can classify the name and last name. I also cannot agree with your response that you do not need a crisis manager at headquarters, I do not agree that there are enough epidemiologists because this is not just about fighting a pandemic, it's about fighting infection, it's about fighting for the mental health of people, it's about fighting for the normal functioning of the education system, it's about fighting for jobs that are unfortunately very quickly disappearing, it's about fighting the shut-down of companies, it's about fighting for the sustainability of the health system, etc., etc. So at the same time we are fighting for more burning problems that definitely cannot be solved by epidemiologists, but experts who know how to deal with complex crises and complex and multilayer problems themselves. That's why I suggested that these crisis managers be involved in headquarters because they know how to deal with it and such problems. Your finding that we're going to see some risk today, but after 10 days, we're going to see some new risk that we haven't taken care of, it doesn't really stand because when crisis management is run, when there's some kind of risk management, then these risks are being monitored and cyclically controlled. So that would be the conclusion. A similar situation and, in principle, a traffic light because you have found there that the traffic lights have not reduced the number of people infected, that is not their role, their role is in fact to show the likelihood of a particular risk and the need for action in the event of a risk, and I think it's a good thing that we should know what to do if something happens. In addition to these appeals, I will appeal to your address to respond in time and to consider and define how to direct children, as well as under what conditions to ensure that you go to school and how to ensure that sport activities are implemented for youth and children. And so we take care of our entrepreneurs and what I specifically appeal for, it's to figure out a way to get older and powerless who are placed in homes because families are really panicking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30901	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Representative Deur, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30902	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. 238, I'm sorry, I'm glad you're actually defending your colleague and our colleague, I respect her, I don't want her, but I think she showed her hand to us and she used a sentence that wasn't or a word, very ugly here. And please, yes, so there's no need to go into any debate now, but something that's been said, it wouldn't be good to continue. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30903	Comrade Deur, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a second warning, too. The next replica is the respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30904	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected colleague, just to make up for that term, used that term for a specific meeting and used a colleague for us, is a small difference in the use of that vulgar term. As for your debate, you mentioned exactly the risk management and management of certain areas of this crisis, there I can partly agree with you, especially since certain consequences of this epidemic will only now have the biggest problems of them and this is a concrete proposal that we can definitely discuss but this constant mantra "effects, effects". These years we've been living with an epidemic and living with this pandemic, living with thoughts relatively well with it, when we look at the level of the economy and unemployment and statistics of health, these are effects. From measures related to the economy to statistics, so these are the effects, what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30905	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30906	Dear colleague, if you've been following my debate, then you could actually hear that I said that the effect has been and we're going to follow them through the media but they're not in this report. Why are they needed in this report? In fact, we should, on the basis of the information given in the report, when the effects are inside and that the measures are mentioned, make it much easier for us to conclude what to do in the future if a new wave occurs. I understand what the minister said, that there's a possibility that it could be a different virus, that it would behave differently, but then, through crisis management, through the recognition of these risks, we'd act differently. So when... that the risk, we don't only act at one risk, so it's not that or-or, it's that, and that, and that, means when you list all those risks that came up at one point, then we act with a certain activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you can do that. I know, it's not your job, that's why I've also suggested in my replica and now again in the debate, to take a crisis manager, one or two more who can really act on it, those are people who know it, who do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30907	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30908	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Pavić, you were saying that in other countries, in fact, they should draw their experiences and that picture of us, so I got the impression that you think that it's better elsewhere than we do, which the data doesn't show, and that reminds me a little of those eternal debates of ours "it was better before, so it's better elsewhere," I think it's not like that, every country is specific and I think that in every country, the most responsible people are doing what they can to deal with this disease that's so new and every time we're surprised again. I agree with you that there are more burning problems in parallel, but I think it fits because about 10 billion kunas have been invested to help the economic sector overcome this crisis that is really difficult, through the health sector is answered in a way that has obtained enough respirators, that special departments are formed, that maximum care is given to those who are unfortunately affected by this disease, through the MUP sector is taken care of by security, the borders, so there are ministries, there are resolutions that do their jobs, and a little bit of this reminds me of the debate in the Assembly when they are looking for investigative committees as if we don't have parliamentary committees and as if we don't have institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30909	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30910	Dear MPs, you may not have listened to my line I gave the minister. I mentioned experiences specifically in New Zealand because they have far the best results. And I suggested that such experiences be taken not by anyone, meaning not by any country but by those who have really good results to try these principles and principles that they have in their countries to try to fit them into our terms, if possible. As far as this is concerned, these results that you've said and the activities or measures that are being implemented, I agree with you, have taken a lot of action, but the question is whether there could be more with people who know it differently and better coordinate. Have we had any real effects with small and medium-sized entrepreneurs? Have we achieved good effects in primary school education or in high school education? That's the question. Kids, I've got three kids at home, the kids are already on edge, and I don't want the California script to show up, as far as the kids are concerned. or as far as people's scripts are concerned from [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] The Dutch. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30911	Next Discussion Incomprehensible/.../... there will be a respected representative of Erik Fabianic [[Intruder: That's why I had this...]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30912	Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'd split my discussion into two parts. One should be a little more futile, and this one, the debate of my fellow Boys where comparisons are being made regarding the pandemic and the Homeland War and taking into account the threat along with the earthquake, is the fact that Croatia has suffered badly. This does not mean that as far as the pandemic is concerned, that the rest of Europe has not been killed. But I'm gonna pull one parallel. As long as we're fighting so much who he is and what he is, etc., Franji Tudjman didn't think of '91. Mr. to declare victory in the Homeland War, he read that the moment Knin was released and the Croatian flag was placed on the Knin Fortress. Prime Minister Plenkovic said in 26.5 that the government has won the crown. Here, we all enjoy that victory here. So much for that. And one more thing. '92. The government of democratic unity was formed because there was a war threat. I don't appeal that it must be done now, absolutely, but it's quite a different modus operand and way of acting at that moment. Therefore, these two things are not comparable to making decisions and the way they fought, but that the threat and the big one is. I'm not gonna argue with the report, but I think we're all sharing a little bit of concern here in the part where we have this report. All together, I mention. So, the Croatian state, as well as the Government's decision, has authorised the minister to sign an agreement which essentially empowers the EU Commission to pay the vaccine for Croatia and, therefore, in its name and in its account, to rent it, which is good because the larger the quantities are being negotiated, the cheaper the individual price. Vaccination started in Croatia, without further ado. And then we have, quote here what the Report says, and it is undeniable, therefore, those vaccine producers are not only producing a vaccine for the EU but for the whole world, so the amounts of vaccines according to current deliveries are very modest and insufficient to realise national vaccination plans against Covid-19. I still didn't go to print the report because it was a report. But what we have to ask ourselves today is what we're going to do about that part. So then it could be read from the press, but not just from the press, but also official documents from other governments, that Italy, and not only Italy, decided to sue the manufacturer, supply. If Hungary had obtained a Russian vaccine, the Serbs have almost as much as they do, Serbia has more fissure than we do. So someone's doing something. Only when those things happened, did I have a chance to hear on ours, and on our televisions Ursula von der Leyen who said we'd have to do something, but only after that. What? One is a threat by publishing, public publication of an agreement, a document, a prior lease contract, and another, possibly, let's say, export customs because the director of AstraZenec claims one thing, and this, the EU Commission claims the other. The negotiations were held yesterday at 6:00, I don't know what the outcome is yet, but it is a question of whether we will all support together and there is no reason not to support one thing because it strengthens the position of our representatives regarding the EU Commission and to support the EU Commission what the negotiations are with the producers. We're a small country, okay. But can we be loud or do we have to sleep through it? We don't have to. We don't have to. We are still a country, and we are an EU member. A full member like any other. And that's very important. Let's do something. Let's do something. I know Mr. Deura may not like my speech, I apologize in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30913	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30914	... Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] I wasn't actually going to pick up today, but then the minister encouraged me to respond to the replica. I am absolutely sure that the minister wants all the best and that he makes decisions that he thinks are best, the question of whether he succeeds is the issue that is crucial to understanding the current events in society. It is in fact that once you make one decision that is very difficult or you cannot find out what it would be like to have made one other decision, and it serves reports. This was to be served, or served, by this report, which shows the effects of these measures. We here should be interested in what measures have been taken, this truth of will in this report is given... 271 decisions tax-listed plus different regulations, plus different suggestions on how to behave. Now, what happens after that, follows what we get with it. We don't know what we got today. I know we've given 4,000 kunas to the economy and thus saved one part of our jobs or maybe all of our jobs, but it's not visible from this, and that's something I believe is both interested in the Minister and us here and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, this report shows that the government had one bureaucratic response to a crisis such as bureaucratic and this report. And why am I saying that she had bureaucratic evidence of this crisis? Because she brought some things without knowing what she wanted to do. We witnessed, it was rare who noticed, that the decision to shut down the cafes and everything the government had actually made after one survey, yes, I was the new TV conducted by the government, exactly two days before the measures were taken, the survey was conducted. Now, at a time when the government acts like that, why the crown traffic lights like some of us called it? Because it needed to define the criteria and because it had to give the probability of an event to all those who function in this society, how schools where we had prescribed some model A, model B, model C. I have to admit the schools have succeeded and I believe it most thanks to the enthusiasm of teachers. And model A is a normal model, but I have to admit knowing some of the teachers model C isn't as simple as it looks. To even interest children when those children are sitting somewhere far away from you is something extremely difficult, and then motivate them to do something, so it rests on enthusiasm. And in fact, the problem with our system is that the minister or government expects the system to rest on enthusiasm, and it shouldn't. It should rest on some predictability, or on the adoption of measures that should be expected to have some effect. If it does not produce the effects expected, then the measure is amended. I can totally agree that we're wrong, you, us, anyone who does something and makes mistakes and if the wrong says I'm wrong I'm going to try another model. I'm aware that, for the first time, we're dealing with something like this, but it's taking a long time, and I think that we should in some way be more constructive on the side of the government, that the government shouldn't act so that when you win, it's a matter of democracy that you take everything and you act four years and you don't have to listen to anyone and you don't have to accept anything. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30915	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30916	Coliar Brumnic, you were saying exactly what the report was supposed to be about the effects of the measures and what turned out to be the best possible models, because of course the crown will not disappear overnight, here and today the minister has been talking about new soybeans, I don't know how everything will behave, but we should know how we behave in some measures. Today, a number of colleagues have talked about not understanding so they don't understand it, if that's the question of communication, I'd say production measures, today everyone's talking about it from the coffee restaurant can get out and can't get out of the cafe. And the explanation isn't where that coffee is drunk because coffee is drunk on the lawns so I don't say from a machine where even the state doesn't have a VAT and they're equally gathering around the kiosk. So, trust, I was talking today about the safety of citizens around their health, on the other hand they have to be sure that the measures are not arbitrary. Today it was said... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30917	Thank you very much. We have a response from the respected representative Fabianic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30918	Thank you, colleagues. I agree with you, I think I said very much in my debate. What's the problem is predictability, this government keeps trying to act like they know everything, not explaining the measures when it brings them, why it brings them up to people to understand how they should behave according to those measures and that's what the problem is. Today we have a list of measures, but we have no answer whether the measure was good or not, no indication whether the measure is good or not. ... And what result? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Maybe he could have been twice as good... Maybe he could have been twice as good, that's the problem. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30919	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Maja Grba Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30920	Mr. Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Often in the assembly, this one can be heard deciding politics. On page 7 of this report, and I'm sure you've all read it and you've given yourself a hard time, and I'll still repeat the truth for the sake of it. On 30 March, the Minister of Health made a decision on the appointment of a professional operational team to support the Health Ministry's crisis headquarters during the Covid-19 outbreak. It is often mentioned in the jargon by an expert group. This team or this expert group numbers 39 members who are, and now I'm going to read to you that we remind ourselves once again to point out that these people have been exchanged in front of their institutions and that this was never a prerequisite for being a member of any party to participate in this expert group. Therefore, the representatives of the Ministry of Health are members of HZZ, Hospital for Infectious Diseases "Dr. Fran Mihaljevic, Office of the World Bank, World Health Organization in Croatia, City Health Office of the City of Zagreb, HZZO, Croatian Medical Chamber, Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters, Croatian Medical Choir, Croatian Institute of Emergency Medicine, Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy, Educational Institute for Public Health "Dr. Andrija Štampar", state inspectorate, Croatian Psychological Society, KBC Zagreb, Children's Diseases clinic Zagreb, KBC Sisters Mercys, Dubrave, Hospitals for Psychology Vrapce, KB Sveti Duh, KB Mercury, KBC Osijek, KBC Rijeka, KBC Split and the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Zagreb and National Health Schools “Andrija Stampar”. This professional operational team is constantly meeting today and is considering proposals and recommendations to improve the work of the health system and to adopt measures in the Republic of Croatia. Because someone really thinks that all these experts, and that's pure profession, are politically colored? No, you can see for yourself that these members are famous. All of these members of the expert group who have made a serious expert contribution and deserve to be remembered should also be thanked for everything they have done in response to this pandemic. The second part I will use for measures when we often mention such economic measures, so I don’t know if everyone may have missed it, on page 37 they say “the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases in the area of the economy. ” One of the exceptional measures that I find very much contributing to protecting our citizens is that the government has made a decision on exceptional price control measures for certain products to protect us from paying more than we would want, or as much as those who produce certain products would want. I will allow myself to read them to you what they were protected foods and products, flour, milk, eggs, sugar, salt, rice, pasta, fresh meat, baby food, diapers, detergents, soaps, protective equipment complete, protective glasses, protective gloves, medicines and medical products and respirators, protective masks, disinfectants, medical alcohol, and not to add any more. That is what we have actually made possible, the government has made it possible for no one to be in a position to rob this Croatian people. These are some measures and these are the first ones that I wanted to explain to you a little bit, and this second one that I've reminded you of, these are things that are very much under the radar, and they were very important to Croatian citizens. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30921	Thank you very much. We will now end up on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre, and will speak the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic. She is not there, she is losing her right to speak, so on behalf of the SDP, she will finally speak to the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30922	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's the need to say a few more words since we are today, we've spent this debate seven hours, eight hours and we've heard, we've heard a lot, a lot of remarks from both the left and the right. Unfortunately, here from the right came the remarks mostly on our remarks and our suggestions, even if it would be better to talk about objections to the report. I'll point out once again, here we heard we have no real indicators inside, and I think it's really a problem, given that these indicators could serve us in the next period to make decisions more easily and faster, and even perhaps for faster and easier decision-making. It's not true if someone said that there are no results, but what Mr. Ante said, unfortunately, we have to read them from the media, we haven't read them in the report. That's why I'm appealing to get that data really in the report next time. The current report is very extensive, however, lists the measures, but there are no figures on the effects of these measures. It would be good if you followed them in your follow-up work, and the activity was that, the results were you and you, it would be easier for us all to follow, and as the parliamentary representatives and experts we heard there were 30 of them in the headquarters and I believe that everyone is competent and that everyone is eager and willing to do better and in the interest of our people. Unfortunately, there was also a debate that had nothing to do with this subject, it's almost daily. But what bothered me today is what was some kind of a bump and again was an insult, and what my colleague Deur said is not the time to call it, but it's time to put some great Zagorci's heads together and fight together with the problems we have. And that is primarily to give support to both the headquarters and the minister and to all those who are actually involved in this in a way that we give our constructive proposals and try to explain these proposals, elaborate and try to explain what will take effect if these proposals are accepted and, in the future, they are used and used in further work. I think that part of the debate, if you think it was inappropriate, I think it was something that was said in the heat of the fight, but I don't think anyone said that the headquarters wasn't working, nobody said that the headquarters was doing bad, nobody said that there was no results, but we all said that we wanted to see what the effects, that we had numbered them one by one, inside that document, in that report, we're going to need both of us and all of you. We also heard the presentation of fellow Erika, and I think it was also constructive, and I think that in that part we should also act and do everything possible to correct the mistakes, to miss the compensation and to go further into battle because I believe, given Mr. Minister's thoughts and parts of the professional public, that there is no end and that we will have these few more waves that we will have to fight with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30923	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the club, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Can we just keep it down a little bit, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30924	Ministers, colleagues and colleagues in this report would be able to learn lessons essentially because this pandemic threat has shown a number of shortcomings in the health care system and there are certain things that do not work, and, of course, in some of the things that have been shown mainly by workers who work and medical staff. And I wish the minister had come out and said why at the Knin General and Veteran Hospital, the Croatian pride of the employee i.e. Nurses, medical staff, doctors, maids, all who work do not receive travel expenses for the seventh month, so from the 7th month they have not received kuna, and they travel 100 kilometers from Sinj, Split, Drniš, Sibenik. I wish my colleagues from my constituency had been a little louder about it, and the minister had given his position to solve this problem because people are under pressure, we can, and otherwise, we can block D1, but that's not necessary in this crisis, for these people to receive this and these, they get paid. I consider my earned i.e. travel expenses. In this crown crisis, there was a lot of inconsistency, I wish I had gotten the information that I asked the MIP representative how many migrants who have come illegally tested whether you have the results whether Covid is positive or not, how positive, how negative, and we know that daily illegal migrants cross the illegal border, and the police are all their forces, all of their opportunities to praise him and give him all their praise with a material and technical means, however, the law, the assistance of Croatian soldiers and the Croatian Army are not used. Why aren't you doing this? I don't know, but it's a fact that no one is controlling it and this problem is forgotten, so here's the MUP to invite the Croatian Army to preserve the safety of our borders and our people in this area and it's in accordance with the law. I would also say that the minister of these measures that were now, which we mentioned people were here often even here and Mrs. Branko Jurič was, she agreed that the catering facilities were finally opened because 100 thousand people were crowded at the gas stations, in the areas where the bakery was available, and the caterers were thrown under the feet. The caterers are in trouble, not just them, but their employees. I think this is a serious problem and it's visible from this whole debate. In fact, there was no confusion, I'm not an expert, but it's illogical for 1,000 people to wait at the gas station coffee with their fingers touching, of course I'm this touchable nobody's doing anything and in my opinion it's very important to measure that the part where it's possible in the catering facilities, terraces, cafes to allow these cafes to be opened and in accordance with the measures as they have trade chains that can go to cafes and catering facilities of others. I think it's very important and I hope these measures will bring the headquarters. I belong to the MOST Club who did not support then that the headquarters be without a time limit for several reasons for the first time because it happened at one time the crown of the crisis was declared victory, you remember that victory, it was not good. To declare victory, a colleague from the SDP said it well earlier, it's the same thing as Dr. Francis Tudjman in '92. He said that victory and say when it was victory, and victory was when we entered Knin, when the 4th and 7th brigade with the help of 126th and other brigades entered Knin, then victory was declared. You cannot declare victory to win the election. So there was politics and very important advice for you. Civil Protection headquarters is exclusively the most political body that corresponds to the Croatian Government i.e. The Croatian Parliament but stems from the government's authority which is here Parliament... The Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a political body and there are political decisions. Until it is clearly resolved that there are political decisions, so far the people will think that the profession, 95%, is the waist involved, would be able to discuss how much, but the fact that the headquarters is a political body and that it has been too often politicised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30925	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now going to the following point, which is: - Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and amending Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 98/2013, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 63 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply when discussing this item on a daily basis. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed secretary of state at the MUP, Zarko Katic, please. Please, can we just shut up a little bit so the secretary of state can say what he wants? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30928	Thank you. I warmly welcome you, before you is the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1148 of 20 June 2019 and on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors and the amendment of Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Therefore, on 20 June 2019, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors, amending the Regulation and repealing the 2013 Regulation was adopted. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that explosives precursors are available in free sale that are otherwise used for different everyday uses and in certain quantities or concentrations, they can be used to make explosives. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2008 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner, you don't understand.]] The 2019 Regulation was adopted in view of the identified shortcomings in the old Regulation of 2013 which did not clearly provide for the liability of economic operators engaged in the import, sale, transport, storage or production of explosives and Internet markets. Similarly, it has been seen in practice that EU inspections are not effective enough and that the new regulation strengthens the role of inspection services. The Regulation lays down harmonised and clear rules on the making available, introduction, possession and use of substances and mixtures which could be misused for the illegal production of explosives and with a view to limiting the availability of such substances and mixtures to individual users, as well as ensuring adequate reporting of suspicious transactions in the supply chain. Everything we're talking about is designed to strengthen the level of public security and the system for the control of precursors that can be used to produce explosives, so-called explosives. home production and further improvement and coordination of the system for preventing illegal production of explosives in view of the increasing threat of terrorism and other serious criminal offences against citizens and public security in general. This would also ensure the free movement of explosives in the internal market, promote the competition of economic operators and encourage innovation, for example by facilitating the development of safer chemicals to replace explosives. The Regulation also requires Member States to establish a national contact point for the reporting of suspected transactions or disappearances and the theft of explosives precursors, and the establishment of competent authorities for inspection and control of the correct application of explosives precursors and the provision of sanctions in the event of infringement of its provisions. This proposal further prescribes the obligations of economic operators relating to the written notification of the other economic operator of the reporting obligations as well as the employees involved in the sales chain. Immediately after employment and once a year with the content of regulated explosives precursors in products placed on the market and obligations pursuant to this Regulation, as well as the obligation to the Internet market to take measures and use tools to ensure that users who make available regulated explosives surpluses, using its intervention services, thus online, are informed of their obligations and that they have to have the option of reporting suspected transactions. The Regulation also lays down, by law, the competent authorities for the implementation of the regulation as well as their obligations, and these ministries are the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agriculture, responsible for internal affairs which are also a contact point and a state inspectorate, in particular the sanitary inspection and inspection of the management of toxic chemicals. The M.O.P. like I said has special obligations prescribed by this law. It shall, above all, be designated as a national contact point for the reporting of suspected transactions or significant disappearances or theft of substances or mixtures containing a precursor of explosives, then for the implementation of criminal research in cases of reporting suspicious transactions in accordance with the law on criminal proceedings and the Law on police affairs and powers and finally for the collection of data and reporting to the European Commission on reported suspected transactions and significant or major disappearances or thefts carried out inspection and awareness-raising activities of explosives transcursors. Finally, they are prescribed by law and would say significant criminal sanctions in the rule of between 40 and 100,000 kuna for legal persons to act contrary to the provisions of the regulation and of this law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30929	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, no, you gave up, well, thank you. The replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30930	Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry that in the first part you were prevented from speaking, and the chairman did not take advantage of the business opportunity of what the HDZ colleagues here had turned into a henhouse, and at one point he went to warn me, I don't know what the reason was, which is why I was when the hen was on this side and I'm sorry that on this very important topic, I'm sorry. the prescription of the orderly European directives and EU regulations as we do every day that I could not hear that first part, so if you have to repeat for the first 5 minutes because the chairman has violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing the henhouse, and that is not a knightial order and the one bearing the chairman is not dignified, and to warn other representatives that, in fact, it is not even religious, it is not what he represents. So I'd like to ask you if you can repeat this first part of this chicken that was created by the club's representatives, which also belongs to the HDZ chairman to repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30931	Comrade Bulj, I have warned those who spoke and when leaving the hall, and I have warned you too because you have yelled in your unusually rude manner from the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30932	Knight, calm down, I didn't say a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30933	Therefore, this one please calm down and behave politely in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30934	I didn't say the word, I didn't say the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30935	What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30936	Thank you, well-respected chairman of the Knights of Jerusalem's Tomb, I have not really yelled at one word but only asked through the line, you have injured Rules of Procedure 238, through the replica that we have honored the Secretary of State, the Assembly MPs who we wanted to hear, and we did not do it because of the hen who created your club, which you belong to and exclusively serve him, and not to all the Assembly representatives to repeat this first part of what we didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30937	Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning because you insult other MPs. Now, will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, Honorable Representative Davor Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30938	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am at this point where, of course, I'm sure we have absolutely no moment nor need to be in agreement just to warn myself of one email that I received, and Mr. Secretary of State is directly touching a group that sent me this email and let me think that you got it, too, but just to point it out here again in the debate. This e-mail came to us from the Croatian Automodel Union. You know, we ourselves should be doing some important things here, but believe me, a lot of important things are made up of a little smaller things, so that in Croatia there is a Croatian Automodel Union as a roof organization of Automodelists in Croatia. These are the people we almost don't know there are, but they're people who do automodels and they have their own paths and trust me out there in the rich, as they say, it's even a serious thing to Europe. They, Mr. Secretary of State, and here I am now asking you to just listen to their words. As members of their institution founded since 1991, they have organized radio - controlled car racing since then, organised auto-model schools for children and young people. Currently, our Croatia has a world champion in class, class, pardon TC petrol engines, I understand little about it, I read their memo, and in the class of paga LS we have 4 European champions. In 2022, so in a little less than a year Zagreb will host the European Championship. There should be 7 hundred people in Zagreb from 50 and some countries that will obviously be our guests, they will take some places in hotels, they will eat something, they will walk, so let's not ignore them. The problem is, dear Mr. Katic, you know very well, fuel with 16% nitromethane is currently allowed for free sale. But they need a little bit more fuel, the fuel I'm talking about right now from their mouths. They are asking you nicely to allow a special way in which, respected secretary of state, will be a regulated way of obtaining nitromethanes or nitromethane preparations for people who do so. I'm sure they can't, in any way, want to endanger the safety of our country or anyone else, so it's automodels that simply octane value nitromethane fuels that don't satisfy their need to run a car race. I know it may seem funny to all of you for a moment, but my dear people, I'm aware and I'm worthy and they're worthy of being represented here. It is not a large group of our society, but these are people who will soon have a European championship in Croatia, people will come and say, please, where can we take the fuel? We'll say here's your fuel, it's got 16%, they'll say, we need 23. You understand? I don't want to attack anyone here right now, come on, dear Mr. Katic, please, Mr. Secretary of State, to sort of find a small legal space through full supply and use control, to allow these people to be allowed to obtain such nitromethane fuels. I know it's a very small percentage, but these people are important to the existence, not only of them, but of this automodel sport. Well, I'm glad I could say something today that, I think, we all have an agreement. Mr. Stromar, do you agree? Yeah, you need to support the automodels, right? HDZ, do you agree? Is there any need to support them? They're little people. They have 25 cars, they'll bring us to Croatia something that we can still make some money with. And there you go. Thank you very much. Well, I'm just, that's what I wanted to say in their favor. [[Thank you very much. We've got...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30939	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a respected representative.../incomprehensible/... We don't. ... Well, we have the next club of representatives, and this SDP is on behalf of which the respected representative Matko Kuzmanic will speak, please. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30940	Dear Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Here, I have to admit, I didn't know about this automodel association, so here's a fellow Dretar I heard something new and we have to admit here, for the first time and I hear about this organization, I'm glad it exists with us. Unfortunately, we live in a much more insecure world than we used to, and we always have to build on our security system, so we also have to implement these things and these laws and decisions in HS. However, of course, I absolutely support everything that will allow as much security as possible for our citizens and which will not help any terrorist organisations or groups to come up with any substances that could harm our citizens or our property. However, while I was reading this, I noticed an article that fell into my eye like this, which is art. 4 which says, in the Republic of Croatia, no authorisations issued by the competent authorities of other EU Member States or by the competent authorities of the Contracting States of the European Economic Area under the Regulation are recognised. In listening to Secretary of State Katic, I realized that the EU is doing something in a way that is not acceptable to us. So now we're going to be more advanced than them, so we're going to show them how it's done. If I get this right, we're not going with this article. 4, we will not recognise the permits issued by the EU authorities, so we will be, as we would say in a jargon of larger Catholics than the Pope, we will in some way now invent something new that is likely to be copied from us by the EU. It's nice to meet you, and I'm proud of it. If that's the case, then it's some serious national security threats that we could show them in that way, so I'm wondering what it is. 11 which says that the processing of personal data under the implementing Regulation will be carried out in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data. So if it's something so dangerous, then these things shouldn't be defined. So I'm sure if it's some serious threat to human life, we won't be looking after the GPDR right now. If we're looking out for the GPDR, then it's something peripheral, something we might be wandering about, maybe we're not 100% sure, and maybe next to this automodel association, there's another association or some other company or other economic operator that's going to be damaged in this way. I hope it won't be a rule, that this example that my colleague Dretar showed before me will be one exception that happens, but here I would like the secretary of state to explain this article to me. 4 because I finally see that for the first time, at least since I've been here, we can sell EU minds here in HS. We're not going to copy them, we're going to be smarter and more advanced than they are, so I'm particularly proud of that. There, thank you very much. Another addition that we as a club will support any law that will be in the interest of our citizens and that will increase the security so that these harmful substances are not found in the hands of those who certainly should not have it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30941	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Ante Deur, will speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30942	For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 98/2013, first reading. Here is certain that in the time we live and the security system must bring and somehow try in the rules as the secretary of state has said, and we must in one way change certain things, to bring better conditions for life, because in both the world and our premises we must certainly be careful that terrorism and various groups that can be used and certain things that can be positive in society, turn them into certain very dangerous things for life. ... Excessives, these are explosives, are chemicals or substances and mixtures used in legal processes, but they can also be misused into illegal production of explosives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, there are a number of types of these chemicals and are used daily, for example. as counterproducts and in the production of other chemicals as solvents for diluent materials which can also be used for the production of various foods but can also be very, very dangerous for other things that can be illegally produced and therefore it is very important. The illegal production of explosives, explosive things, the use of different chemicals or predures poses major security threats, and therefore the Council has adopted a regulation that introduces stricter rules on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors across the EU, with the aim of limiting their availability to the general public and ensuring appropriate reporting of suspicious transactions in the supply chain, which is very important to put under control so that it knows which legal frameworks can be managed by such a very dangerous and... substances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Regulation lays down harmonised rules and makes available the use of substances and mixtures that could be misused in the illegal production of explosives with a view to restricting the availability of individual users of these substances and mixtures with a view to ensuring the proper reporting of various suspicious transactions and supplies that could happen in our part of Europe safely from various organisations. The Regulation repeals the authorisation of certain substances, potassium... potassium... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Regulation also requires countries and the establishment of a national contact point for the reporting of suspected transactions and disappearances or theft of explosives precursors and the establishment of competent authorities for the inspection and control of the correct application of explosives precursors and the provision of sanctions in the event of infringement of its provisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With explosives like these, I'm sure it also shows how cautious we must be and how important it is for this proposal to get its legal framework. And since this comes daily from different dimensions and progress, modernisations in different technologies, a growing number of people's imaginations arise in terms of the choice of substances used in the illegal production of explosives. Surely these are the dangers that we can see daily, and in our past, how certain it is that terrorism has been exploited in various organizations, we have seen both in "The Twins" and in various events, but explosives are very important and dangerous if they are not put under control. It is important to respond and recognise the dangers in due time and to take the necessary actions to prevent the use of explosives precursors for illegal production of explosive devices. The new Regulation will limit the availability of explosives to the general public and ensure adequate reporting of suspicious transactions in the supply chain that will be carried out by economic operators under the supervision of the system and where they will certainly be known at all times in which they are used and in which way we have under control. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30943	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we're going to Selection, appointment and resolution. I would like the President of the Co-Committee, thank you Minister, Chairman of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic to explain the proposals of all 35 decisions. It is about outside members and some other things but it will be explained by the respected President Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30946	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The board for, uh, I got off on the wrong foot, okay. The Committee held its session today and made several proposals, I will read the proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. Board members Drazen Bošnjaković and Ljubica Maksimčuk are dismissed and Krešimir Ackar and Nikola Mažur are elected for members of the board. So these are the replacements within the parliamentary deputies. The proposal for a decision on the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget is elected by dr. Vesna Vucilovic, since he has stopped acting as Dario Zurovec for holding the parliamentary mandate. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee of Dr. Milan Vrkljan, a member of the committee, is elected by Dr. Stephen Nikola Bartula. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and election of the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament is resolved by President Karolina Vidović Kristo and is elected by dr. Vesna Vucilović. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is resolved by a member of the Committee of Dr. Milan Vrkljan, a member of the committee, is elected by Dr. Stephen Nikola Bartula. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament is hereby resolved by a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature, Dr. Vesna Vucilović. The proposal for a decision on the selection of members and the termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure is being chosen by Tomislav Klaric since he stopped acting on January 21st as Darko Puljašić. Proposal for a decision on the election of a member and the termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, Stipan Sašlin is elected to be a member of the board, since he has ceased to act as representative of Darko Puljašić on January 21st. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Karolina Vidović Kristo, is hereby elected as a member of the Committee. Zlatko Hasanbegovic. The proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Stocks, a member of the advice of Dr. Milan Vrkljan and Daniel Spajic is elected member of the Committee on Stocks from the ranks of MPs. So these decisions take effect on the day of adoption and will be published in the National Journal. Then we have more decisions. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament are named members Branko Smerdel, Mato Palić, Bosiljka Britvic Vetma, Mirela Mezak Matijević, Đorđe Gardasevic and Sanja Baric. The appointed members will take office on 1 February. So these are now decisions related to outside board members. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee is called Frane Staničić, Boris Ljubanovic, Sunčana Roksandić, Alen Čicak, Natasa Delonga Poparić. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the European Affairs Committee is called Tunjica Petrašević, Ivica Miskulić, Dora Zgrabljić Rotar, Iris Goldner Lang, Hrvoje Šlešak and Daniel Mondekar. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament is called Bozo Ljubic, Vesna Barić Punda, Tatjana Tomaic, Mislav Kraljević, Tanja Vrbat Grgic and Goran Bandov. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament is called Josip Lucic, Davor Špoljarić, Anto Šoljic, Igor Tabak, Ranko Ostojić and Željka Antunović. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament is named Matija Kroflin, Iva Tomic, Marina Rozic, Marko Primorac, Josip Tica and Vuk Vuković. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Parliament's Committee for Economy is called Mladen Novosel, Ivan Misetic, Ivan Barbaric, Dragutin Ranogajec, Tonči Tadic and Željko Požega. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament is named Luka Kolovra, Snjezana Sabo and Saša Djujic. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament is named Gordan Cerpic, Aleksandar Mašavelski, Nura Ismailovski and Sara Lalic. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee is named Luka Majeric, Snježana Vasiljevic, Ivan Milotic, Tomislav Jonjic, Tonci Restovic and Zlata Djurdjevic. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee for Labour, Pension System and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament is named Željka Obradović, Milica Jovanovic, Daniel Nestic and Marinko Ucur. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament is named Krešimir Luetić, Mario Gazic, Hrvoje Pezo, Tibor Santo, Dragan Ljudić and Joško Martic. The proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament is called Marija Bubaš, Marko Sladelov and Dorotea Pesic Bukovac. The proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Croatian Committee outside the Croatian Parliament to the Committee is named Željko Raguž, Veseljko Jovanovic, Darko Markušić and Igor Josipovic. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee is called Ivan Žeko, Stanko Bravic and Zorica Greguric. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly is called Nike Sudarević, Jasminka Pilar Katavic and Krunoslav Ivanisin. The proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Environment and Nature Committee of the Croatian Parliament is called Robert Podrug, Diana Pausic Podhraški, Željka Leljak Gracin. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is called Branko Petrinec, Sanja Putica, Dijana Vican, Ante Rončević, Marija Lugarić and Valter Bjemunčić. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Agriculture is named Đurdjica Sumrak, Petar Baranovic and Mijo Latin. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the EU Regional Development and Funds Committee of the Croatian Parliament is called Boris Crnkovic, Igor Razenović and Marko Vecligaj. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament is called Jadranka Fžržop, Petar Valovic, Tomislav Maric, Nikoleta Radionov and Daniel Ferić. The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament is called Aleksandar Milosevic, Oliver Matijević, Damir Tomic, Neven Bosilj, Đurdjica Klancir Ladišić and Anto Mikić. The proposal for a decision on the names of members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is called Anesa Sabani, Verica Rupčić, Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. The proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Assembly is called Goran Spider, Boris Pilizota, Mirjana Lichner Kristic, Zlatko Komadina, Martin Baričević, Nives Kopatitih Škrec, Slavko Priscan, Jerko Glavas, Antun Vidaković. And the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy is named Dario Umljenović, Marija Udiljak, Bernard Topic, Krešimir Planinić, Željko Jovanovic, Zorislav Antun Petrovic. This decision enters into force on 1 February, so these decisions will be published to the outside members on 1 February and will be published in the National Journal and all these decisions, together with the CV of these members, will be published and already are on the Croatian Parliament's website.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-28-0.u30947	Thank you very much, thank you to the board president. I'm opening a debate about it. No one answers, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met We are done with today's work, we will continue to work tomorrow, on Friday, 29 January at 9:30, first item will be the Final Proposal of the Nature Park Law "Dinara", second reading, P.Z. No. Six. Have a nice evening. The session was interrupted at 21.03 p.m.
