ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42828	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here's to change the subject a little bit in free speech, I will speak on behalf of the Association of National Movement Representatives about an extremely important date from Croatian history. We're usually a plural, free party, and we don't all think the same thing about that. In fact, one 22.6. of 400 and, 1593, 400 and 20 years ago, we all mean an extremely serious date. It is the first major victory of the Christian army over the Turks in Sisak. The battle also killed Hasan Pasa Predojevic and 10th, 15 to 20,000 Turkish soldiers I regret because they are mostly confirmed Croats, but this is an extremely significant event to be mentioned. The second event is 80 years ago, which should also be mentioned. There are at our club and those who say.../incomprehensible/... that it's an apocryphal event, that it's an apocryphal date and that it's not to be talked about. Most of us, including these three here and the vast majority of the Homeland Movement, believe that 22.6 is to be discussed. Why do I need to talk to you? Because it's called the day of some kind of Croatian anti-fascist struggle. I'm saying that some Croatian anti-fascist struggles but Croatia had real anti-fascists and I even agreed when I heard that the prime minister and president were going to Bezovic to talk about what happened there, but it certainly looked back at Croatian anti-fascists. And indeed one of them mentioned several of them, and Matu Jerkovic and Štrok and General Šibla, but how they didn't remember mentioning Mark Oreshkovic because he was the true paradigm of what was happening. So, that 22.6. clearly he realizes that there are some events and some real event values he doesn't have, but he has a very large symbolic value because after that, everything that starts, what I've talked about here three or four times. 27.7. in Serbia I said and recited from the beginning to the end, even quoted the Mermorial Book which the Chetnik organization published in 1976 in Chicago about the 30th anniversary of Draža Mihajlovic's death where they say nicely that we Croats are the biggest joke in the world because on the day of the uprising we celebrate the day of the uprising, there was a uprising but a single Croat that they very much did not participate in the uprising. And a similar joke are their Serb anti-fascist brothers who hold that uprising as the day of their anti-fascist struggle which is not true because of the 7 leaders of the uprising they were all Serb monarchs, so let me not pick them up afterwards, I know them all where they did. So, I expected that yesterday will be seriously talked about Croatian anti-fascism, we are anti-fascists, I am an anti-fascist because fascism is not only, Spijic don't laugh at me, fascism is not just a worldview but is a state of spirit and consciousness. And often in this assembly are the fierce fascists who wave the anti-fascist flag. So, listen to stories yesterday about fraternizing in the weapons of Serbs and Croats, that is inadmissible, it is a sign that the first people of this country advise someone who does not know or purposely twists, sparks the truth. To build a monument to the army and military leaders who were after, I went to 1593, 1241, '2. In these areas, again similar spaces, around Serbs, committed the greatest crime in the history of these parts, Tatars chased the Croatian-Hungarian ruler Bela IV. And that drove him through half of Europe, so somewhere in the area of Serbs, Korenica, etc., of course, led alongside a large number of prisoners, they couldn't continue to lead them, so they were beastly killed. It was the greatest atrocities in these areas until Tito's army, Tito's partisans and those girls' trailers, girls' braid trailers and four people, or four skeletons connected to each other with wire, were shot once. That's what's coming out of the trenches, and you can see it, and the victims of Ustasha terror and Max Luburic, I'm listening to the stories of the story, someone's trying to accumulate what happened to me. before... [[Thank you. Next club reps. Thank you very much. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42865	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will speak the esteemed representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42866	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I quote, there is still discrimination against members of certain groups, especially the Roma and Serb national minorities, including returnees. Still in the reporting period, hate speech is on the rise, as are cases of hate speech in the media and political discourse. The increase in radical nationalism has had a overall negative impact on the achievement of minority rights, especially in severely affected post-conflict areas. The public debate on national minorities continues to be dominated by anti-minor rhetoric and prejudice, most affected by members of the Serb and Roma national minorities. Historical auditism continues to affect the Serbian, Roma and Jewish national minorities. Negative stereotypes in printed, audiovisual and social media are not condemned or sanctioned to a sufficient extent. The presence of national minorities in national broadcasting emissions is insufficient and public media lacks sufficient human and financial resources to ensure a qualitative and quantitative media production for national minorities. What I've said is not a Hague statement by Dragana Jeckov or any other member of the SDSS. These are the quotes of the conclusion of the 5th. Opinions of the Advisory Committee of the Council of Europe on the monitoring of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities addressed to all of us by the Republic of Croatia. The above facts are therefore the conclusions of a third independent body that helps select the Council of Europe Ministers in the assessment of the conformity of the measures taken by the signatories of the Framework Convention. And it was these representatives of the Advisory Committee who visited the Republic of Croatia and talked to a whole series of associates, at least those who wanted to receive them because there were those who couldn't even talk about national minorities, not national minorities. Of course, the first - hand people could see the attitude of a certain institution in cities or municipalities toward national minorities. I would dare say that the Advisory Committee has quite well detected the real problem within our society, and this is an unquestionable fact that we in the Republic of Croatia have almost ideal positive regulations, i.e. the legal framework in line with EU legislation, which formally guarantees a series of rights for minorities, but they continue to get up in the good part with a dead letter on paper. They wrote us men and made a lot of recommendations. It directs us to overcome problems and leave us to work together to recognise diversity without consequences and implement recommendations to create a better social climate for all of us, in order to next, or 6. The opinion of the Council of Europe Advisory Committee on the Monitoring of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities addressed to our country was better than the previous ones who, truth be told, were not commendable at all. In the end, I will also use this minute that I have to say on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS that tomorrow we will not participate in the work of the Parliament because we are going to the memorial to lay flowers and bow down to the victims of Ustasha terror in Jadovna and on the island of Pag in the camp Slana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42867	Next club... Buddy, you can't lift any more,.../incomprehensible/... What, all right, here you go. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42868	238. 238, breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know if it's Mrs. Jeck's team from the EU to raise monuments in Brshadin, the people who attacked the Republic of Croatia, did tell them all the truth, what you're doing in Eastern Slavonia, what monuments nothing, what schools children go to, what children do to children, did you tell them all that so that they have a full picture of how the Serbian national minority actually has too many rights in the Republic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42869	My colleague Mlinarić, and you know that you have knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure, so you will receive according to the article. 239 warning. We will now continue with the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, and the honourable representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42940	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens who follow us live or listen to the video of this debate. What I want to talk about today is actually a question of consistency or inconsistency in representing values. The last few days we had the opportunity to see a storm in a glass of water raised by European fundamentalists, but also our alleged moderate HDZ conservatives on our colleague Fred Matic's report on the state of sexual and reproductive rights in the context of women's health in the EU. Of course, all those who otherwise wish to take away the right of choice, who otherwise view them as insubordinate incubators and who are consistent with this, have been speaking of this report for over a year and strongly oppose it. Their values aren't my values. First of all, because I believe that they are not separating states from religious communities, but from what they perceive as God's law they want to do with the law of the state. They often argue their views with the fact that 90% of the believers live in this country, so they should be okay with what they represent. However, 90% of Croatian citizens and citizens, according to a series of publicly available research, are also against the ban on termination of pregnancy, and if we look at how much support ultraconservative options they have in the elections, it is clear that 90% of the believers have very diverse thoughts and that most of them took seriously that of Jesus, the God of God, emperor of the emperor. So, my colleagues and colleagues from the Bridge and the Homeland Movement, I disagree with the content of your views, but I support your right to represent them publicly. And if there's anything else I can at least commend your consistency in that, with the hope that one day you'll change your mind. This is a free country after all. It is a different case with colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, with exceptions such as colleagues Stier and Tomislav Sokola, for example. My colleagues and colleagues from HDZ have raised a great deal of concern over Matic's report and have been hitting on the chest of a hero for days in an attempt to portray themselves as true conservatives and watchful watchdogs on the face of Christianity. The problem with that is, of course, the fact that this little sad play is transparent because, namely, colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ and sparrows on the branches know that your conservativeism is changing as the wind blows. It was a long time ago when your party was the right-hand option in which real conservatives get caught and see it as that political party that can adequately represent them. So I want to ask you today who exactly are you trying to impress? Today, two consistent conservative options for which you choose butik believers work in the assembly. You'll never attract them again. For each of the seven deadly sins, there is the face of some HDZ or HDZ woman who committed it. You voted for the Istanbul Convention, hello, why would someone who really conservative voted for you in addition to, say, Marin Miletic or Stjepa Bartulice? Are you trying to impress moderately conservative citizens and citizens of Croatia like this? And that's where you're wrong. It is clear that most moderately conservative citizens believe that medical services for women such as pregnancy termination should be available, and anyone who does not wish to end pregnancy from their personal beliefs does not have to. When they look at your little playbook, they're certainly not impressed because for them it's all the time. That's not the question Plenkovic would say. They're going to criticize you because you're not dealing with those issues that are the real question for them... Bill Clinton would have told you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, there are all the other citizens and citizens. When they watch this primordial signalling of your value, they think this, the HDZs not only are the butik believers but they are also the Butik Democrats. For years, you've been making it difficult to implement a constitutional court's decision to re-regulated the legal solution of termination of pregnancy. So, from where you can really show your values you keep running away and when some SDP man in the European Parliament makes a report in which it objectively represents the real state of sexual and reproductive rights of women remember that someone in Croatia could ask you about it butik Democrats. When the three bishops and the five associations pressed you, you would immediately prohibit the termination of pregnancy, but when it is necessary to show it, you are neither weeded nor weeded. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ are the only ones who keep doing this. Your inconsistency leads you to a secure political irrelevant and so you don't take this the wrong way I'm just saying this to smile in your face. That's good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42941	We've got two MPs again who've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. The first is a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42942	Art. 238, I agree with the HDZ criticism, but for the sake of the Croatian public, I must highlight one important thing because there is a misleading debate on Matic's report. Defending the institution calls for conscience, but not an institutional appeal to conscience is a liberal position and defending acquired human rights that should be in everyone's interest, and not just this flat-rate division of liberal conservatively and to the right which is trying to interpret here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42943	Thank you. And you've already received one warning, now your foundation. In 240th century, I give the warning by taking away the word. In violation of the Rules of Procedure, the vice president of this assembly, Honorary Representative Miroslav Skoro, has been raised, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I know I'm going to get a warning, but I want to say that what's for you to end your pregnancy because you've apostropheed us is for us to stop the development of life. The right to a health care service as you call a pregnancy termination is certainly the right thing to do. However, doctors also have the right to appeal to their conscience. So now, in these proportions of rights you need to find the right measure, but this is how you call the Homeland movement you have no right to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u42945	I'm sorry I have to go to the vice president's office. 239th Remembrance. He knew he was gonna win, but we're going to the next club. We're going to the next club, and that's the representative of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43028	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, obviously the topic is this resolution, abortion, abortion, the abolition of women's health care. I was thinking about a whole other topic, but I'm just going to say in the beginning, so all those who advocate abortion, I'm just going to ask you, do you have your children, do you have your daughters, what if any evil happens to these daughters? So, you're going to bring laws here to ban abortions from broad folk masses, but your daughters are going to go neatly to that abortion in countries where abortion is available, where health care is available or since we have such receipts secure an abortion on black? You can do it, but a lot of women can't. Therefore, abortion should remain available and women should be protected. There's only so much at the beginning. And now, so, just to say, here I have two daughters, I have a 25-year-old daughter, I have a 15-year-old daughter, now 16, I would never advise them to throw up, but I will defend their right to do so, so that I can do so, I will defend their right to be protected by health care. If they do, I'll be with them as a mother and I want all women in this country to have such protection and such conditions. Here, thank you. So, the topic I wanted, here I have 3 minutes, which I wanted to talk about, which is a continuation of the subject from the last time and protection of the maritime goods. Here I invite you all to come four. July, for 10 days at Vraj where the festival of illegal construction and devastation of nature is held. The organizers expect you to have a rich cultural and entertainment program, day-round performances, exhibitions, a series of workshops such as the basics of yoga on illegal buildings, a tree painting course burned by purposely caused by fire to clear the plot, so I read, quote the organizer's call. There will also be a stand where free legal advice will be shared for future lawless builders, small schools of environmental devastation, why and how to throw as much plastic in nature as possible, you participate in education on the proper hugging of buffers and.../incomprehensible/... camera and on many other events. So, I was talking last time about the sea goods devastation that lasts for 20 years, and now I'm going to mention five miles from that heat you've got Hot Number 2. Also a beautiful bay of Borak in Marusici, it is the last unbuilt wave on the beach that has a source of drinking water, above the source and by law protected forest, but nothing has prevented a private investor from re-inventing the area and banning access to the locals. They say that it was some stranger who had become rich in Ukraine and began his devastation at a time when Omishim reigned to say so for another year reigned the HDZ mayor who he remembered you would now be headed, the director was home to the elderly who, if you remember at first the crown had a large number of dead persons because there was a man who didn't know what to do with people who had a high temperature. So, in Marusici again, Vruja 2, a re-devastion that lasts for a number of years, a series of legal proceedings, a series of lawsuits in front of this court that are being extended, which are slowing down, that can't be solved. The city of Omis has tried to arrange a trip with the investor several times and access to the rain, not to agree. So here's what I'm calling on all 10th constituency MPs to pay attention to these sea goods devastations and to take up these devastations. Not just from the 10th election, therefore, from all election units along the Adriatic coast. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43091	Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, we will start with today's work and as always, we will begin with the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will be spoken by the esteemed representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43092	Dear Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would take the opportunity to congratulate our chosen football kind in a great game and win that we had the opportunity to watch yesterday and go ahead in such a way. Croatia is in the EU, and there are various reports in the EU that are binding in principle on EU members. Today, in the EU, one of the most interesting and exciting votes in the history of the EU parliament is likely to take place today, in the history of the EU, and this is about the vote on the adoption of our former colleague, Predrag Matic Fred, who is the EU representative of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia. So it is a report that our colleague Fred Matic wants to order all EU members to have abortions, abortions being legal and accessible to all, or to prevent any national legislation from passing a law to protect life tomorrow. That's not all. Mr. Matic goes one step further so he also wants to do so and the right to appeal to his conscience. When he proposed this report, even members of the IPP belonging to HDZ or MPs were behind this report, however, few under public pressure turned the record anyway, so today it will be very exciting to watch what is happening in the EU parliament, whether the Socialists will have a majority, how many IPPs will vote for this report or how many will vote against them. But this isn't all. We have some countries that are so little sovereignist than our country is Croatia. That's for example. Slovakia. In Slovakia a few days ago, a resolution was passed on June 17th to reject such a report. And now I announce from this place that Croatian sovereigns will comply. 214. The Rules of Procedure of the HS propose, put in the procedure, a resolution modelling a Slovak resolution that will prevent the adoption of such a report, which is now, here it is, likely, being brought to the EU parliament. I have to point out another illogicality here, actually one ridiculous fact. 39 MPs and HS deputies signed a petition against this report. 39 MPs and MPs. And now I'm wondering if these signatories are aware of what they're getting paid for. Are they getting paid to sign on various petitions or to get paid to bring laws to the House here in HS in accordance with its political definition and according to its worldview? Well, I don't think they're aware. Because they're all prolifes when some petitioner needs to sign or go to Life's Walk, and when there's a law in HS or sign a law that exists, give him support, and then they're gone, then they're in a mouse hole. Croatian sovereigns have proposed and given the HS life protection law. And I can call you all signatories of this petition, but I can also call you hypocrites because you produce your law on the protection of life, you have my Bianca support, Bianca signature if you don't like that already finished law of Croatian sovereigns. And all those who don't know what I'm talking about, here's a small model of a child allowed to kill in our country of Croatia because the MPs in HS have not passed a law that would protect life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43283	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of the respected representative Jura Brkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43284	Dear Vice President, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, we will not participate in this competition today, who is more conservative or who is more liberal, throw out the big words of the conscience, the abortion, the right to life, because it is a far more complex and wider story than we can present today in 5 minutes, and I do not want to participate in this because I do not want to give any advertising to Mr Fred Matic and all of his kerecs that he performs in the EU Parliament. I would talk today about something, perhaps, that turns out to be more prosaic, but on the trail of what counterpart Daus was saying earlier, which is the tourism and tourist season that we are already in, and also some of the good things that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Tourism and Sports are doing. In early June, news about the results of the local elections was published on the tourism ministry's website that Croatia was elected as a member of the World Tourism Organisation Executive Council for the period from 2021 to 2025. What exactly does that mean, and how did that happen in the first place? The UNWTO World Tourism Organisation is a specialized UN agency designed to monitor, regulate and develop tourism in the world. UNWTO has 159 full members, its work takes place in regional commissions organised according to geographical allocation. The main role of UNWTO from its beginnings to today is to serve as a global forum for tourism policy and other issues related to tourism. The Republic of Croatia has been a UNWTO member since 1993. and actively participates in its work as a member of a number of technical committees, and through UNWTO membership we have the opportunity to contribute to the development of responsible and sustainable tourism in global frameworks. The 66th World Tourism Organisation's Europe Commission meeting was held in Athens in early June to discuss the current situation in the tourism sector and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the future of tourism. The meeting also discussed the importance of tourism for economic recovery, with emphasis on sustainable development to ensure the long-term success of tourism in the world. The current situation in the tourism sector was also discussed, as well as the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the future of tourism, particularly taking into account the results during the first quarter of 2021. According to the World Tourism Organisation, international tourists' arrivals decreased by 83% in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the same period last year. Between January and March 2021, destinations worldwide welcomed 180m fewer international arrivals compared to the first quarter of last year. For comparison according to data from the e-Visitor Croatia achieved 1.1 million arrivals and 4.3 million overnights at the beginning of the year, 52% in arrivals and 46% in nights compared to the same period last year. Tourism and Sports Minister Nikolina Brnjak participated in the meeting. On this occasion, Minister Brnjak presented a series of activities that Croatia is carrying out to ensure that the quality of business in tourism is ensured, and set high and safety standards such as the Safe Stays in Croatia project, setting additional points for the testing of tourists, co-financing of tests, as well as the vaccination of tourist employees that are under way. In addition, the minister stressed that Croatia has already started using EU digital covid certificates, stressing that a uniform certification system is a prerequisite for faster establishment of tourist flows. By decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 31 May on the establishment of the National System for the issue of the EU Digital Covid Certificate, which began on 1 June, we were the first EU member to do so in order to facilitate the freedom of movement of citizens. Croatia continues to work actively to promote sustainable tourism, protect and valorise cultural and natural heritage and above all the added value of tourism for local communities. The new Sustainable Tourism Development Strategy is currently being prepared by 2030. and National Sustainable Tourism Development Plan for the period from 2021 to 2027. Both these documents lay the basis for sustainable tourism growth, digitalisation of environmental conservation, smart governance of public infrastructure, energy, as well as the promotion of sports and creative industries. The responsible tourism policy that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry of Tourism and Sports have led to the logical election of Croatia for a member of the World Tourism Organisation Executive Council for the period from '21. until '25. The Executive Council is tasked with taking all necessary measures in agreement with the Secretary-General during the period between the two meetings, the General Assembly for the implementation of its own decisions and the resolution of the General Assembly. That's what it means now and in the next 4 years. We have the opportunity to participate in creating tourism policies for Europe Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43378	The next club of representatives will be the Mosta in the name of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43379	After hearing the speech of those who allegedly fight for the unborn or any human rights, they do so solely for the purpose of their own self-promotion, and not for the promotion of anyone's rights, I will focus more specifically and more seriously on the document here and make arguments as to why it is unacceptable. Since Mr Matic, in the domestic media, has said in criticism that it is right-wing lies that threaten the health of 200 million women in the EU and that the whole story has been messed with by the Church and the lying conservatives, I believe that the Croatian public deserves a more detailed consideration of what is at stake in that Report and why it is to me as someone who is politically performing from the centre's position completely unacceptable and why I believe that all authentic human rights fighters should stand up against it. The first argument, parliament oversteps its powers because it deals with issues such as health, sexual education and reproduction, as well as abortion and education which are the legislative competence of the Member States. Secondly, the work of the Commissioner for Freedom of Religion directly calls for an ideologically similar person to be chosen for that function. Third, the regressive tendency of dodging continues to call upon which it calls as persistent and arbitraryly referred to as the so-called, although a large number of Member States, more than 20, gives the right to object to the conscience recognised in the UN instruments as well as in the European Convention on Human Rights. It goes so far that it even explicitly seeks to make progress that this issue should be addressed as a denial of medical care, not as a so-called ‘doctor’. Objection to conscience. This regressive trend of adjudication calls for conscience is unfortunately present in Croatia as well, so the dogging calls for conscience is in the programmes of new political options as we can! still often characterized in the media by progressive human rights fighters. Freedom of opinion, conscience and religion falls under human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by international documents and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The call for his dictation or restriction is a direct violation of the severe torment of human rights acquired after the crime of World War II that everyone should all rise up against. The question that therefore arises where does Fred Matic come from in this story at all? Let's not lie. Matic has as much to do with women's rights as I do with the Department of Defense. So the real question is who is the real author of this report, or what benefit do I benefit from it? A careful reader will likely point to the lobbyist civil society organisations providing this report with direct financial support for their actions with the following points in that report. Point 56 says it supports the actions of Member States and civil society organisations dealing with sexual and reproductive health and rights. Point 69 calls on the EU Member States to finance this, and point 70 stresses that it is essential to ensure that development cooperation policy involves civil society organisations directly involved in the defence of sexual and reproductive health and rights in developing countries. And that's okay. It is your human right to write your own mother's homework if you don't know otherwise, but you will have to justify them yourself and you won't be able to avoid it. Namely, after informing Matic's European office that, because of the great interest and importance of this topic, I would place the above-mentioned report as a point of the agenda on the Committee on Gender Equality and, of course, invite them to engage, it is suggested that we skip the debate until the report is adopted, I suppose with the aim of not raising the dust because they slowly become aware that they have messed up badly. Of course, I have resolutely rejected the argument that HS is a key institution that must take action with problems and discuss them while it can still directly or indirectly affect the final outcome of the debate, not when it is all over. The European Parliament is not Maldives enjoying financial benefits far from home control. Croatian citizens deserve to know what is happening in the European Parliament and to direct their reaction to representatives who have been given confidence, and women's rights that are of great importance must not be a receptive cover for the ideological mutilation of hard-earned human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43380	Two colleagues reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? First respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43381	So, Reverend Vice President, Art. 238. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ actually recognized herself in what I was saying even though I did not name her. So she's a typical example of a person who doesn't believe in what she's saying, so she's for abortion, it's a lot of times and pointed out, and here she's really taking the right to live, I'm going to point out. If your colleague Selak Rasudiæ is not clear your job in HS lawmaking... for life, protect life. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43382	Thank you, thank you very much, this one you know for yourself that it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica to which you do not have the right after the statement of view, so by virtue of Article. I give a warning in 239. Honorable representative Katarina Peovic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what has he been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43383	I have to react, so 238. There is an important and very dangerous lie here, which is that questioning the right to abortion is a threat to human rights. The threat of human rights is the denial of health care for women who want to make abortions, abortions, and depriving human rights is certainly not a struggle for such health care. Therefore, we cannot speak falsely in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43384	Thank you. And you get the foundation of an art. 239th notice. I'm asking you nicely, you can all report for your position. It is not correct to violate the Rules of Procedure because anyone who has read it, if you have read it, you know that you do not have the right to reply on behalf of the club. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was raised and respected by the representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43385	Art. 238, the appeal of conscience is, as I have reasoned, a human right stated in various, and also in Croatian documents, and its doting is a regressive trend that brings us back in time and before World War II. We must have learned a lesson from what happened. And colleague Zekanovic, you would be more useful to read these documents and make arguments as to why they are wrong instead of self-promotion and flat-rate criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43386	And you know that you have knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure, and by virtue of Article. In 239, you get a warning. We can go on without these pointless discussions that violate the Rules of Procedure. The next club of MPs will be that IDS in the name of which the honourable representative Emil Daus will speak. [[Half a sentence. /]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u43446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll try to get us back into the present perspective of the future. The tourist season began, according to the latest reports, in Poreč, Rovinj, Medulin, according to all indicators Istria should again be the largest share of goods and services from tourism this year in Croatia. The County headquarters of the Istrian County is doing a great job, people in Istria are very responsible, respect measures, unlike some other parts of the country, we have 3 days in a row of excellent numbers, or there are no newly infected and we hope so. So it's all going right, or at least it should go right. But no, due to the practice of ECDC system, the European Centres for Disease Prevention and Control, that the epidemiological situation in Croatia is based on the statistical regions of level 2, NUTS-2 according to which the Republic of Croatia consists of 4 statistical regions, the Istrian County was brought into an unfavourable position by the Government of R. Slovenia because, unlike the German Institute Robert Koch, which is an epidemiological image in Croatia, followed by the counties, and which, as the relevant German institution for statistics and recommendations related to Covid-19, granted the status of the so-called State of Istria. "green regions" already 3 and a half weeks ago, the ECDS system reports for 4 statistical regions in Croatia, including Adriatic Croatia with all its coastal counties, from Istria to Dubrovnik-Neretva County. On this basis, the Government of R. Slovenije, looking at the entire Adriatic Croatia as an orange zone, has brought a new measure towards which all citizens must have a negative antigen test on their return from the Adriatic Croatia, so also from Istria, if they do not have confirmation of vaccination, must have a negative antigen test on Covid-19. This includes Istria, but also the Primorje-Gorski County, which is also the so-called "Primorje-Gorski Kotar County". "Green County" unjustly and unjustly punished for certain other coastal counties whose epidemiological image is significantly worse. From the very beginning of the pandemic, the citizens of Istria have been responsible and patiently respecting the epidemiological rules and it is unfair for Istria to be punished in this way and for this reason, several days ago, the Istrian mayor Mr Miletic sent an open letter to Prime Minister Plenkovic to request without delay that the responsible EU bodies be asked to take an epidemiological picture for Croatia in the ECDC system based on the epidemiological state of each county individually, not as so far as Croatia is divided into 4 statistical regions. As strange as this may sound, but colleagues and colleagues, this is actually about protecting national interests because in a country where for decades the modus operand of money lending on the world capital market, sometimes with smaller, sometimes with higher interest, in which the last rebalancing of the budget, the planned deficit of 17.1 billion kuna, is about to create all preconditions for the best possible tourist season at the moment, and thereby indirectly and filling the budget of the Republic of Croatia is a national interest. It is not necessary to further highlight the amount of income from Istrian tourism to a large extent contributes to filling the same budget and saving the country's difficult economic situation. Istra, if you haven't seen these days, appeared on the cover of as many as six Austrian magazines in a week, which speaks enough about how attractive the destination is. Croatia is in good shape, it must not be gambled because you know, except that in Istria citizens are responsible for the pandemic, they are also responsible for filling the state budget. Fiscalized bills are issued, value added tax is paid, consumption tax, income tax, etc., in short, the Croatian economy is saved. That is why I call on the government to engage even more strongly with this address so that this problem can be resolved to protect Croatia's national interests and save this year's tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52760	Now we will move to, as I announced on Friday, the first item of today's agenda, which is: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 148. The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52761	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. Today we are discussing amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations. With these amendments, we repeal Directive 199/44 of the European Community, of the European Parliament and of the Council in certain aspects of natural goods of general consumption and on guarantees for such goods, and in the Croatian public system we implement the EU Directive of 2019. 771 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 in certain aspects of the contract on the purchase of goods. The Law on Mandatory Relations regulates the basics of mandatory relations, and contractual and non-contractual mandatory relations in the part relating to contractual relations, the Law on Mandatory Relations contains the provisions of liability for material deficiencies, and the guarantee of the correctness of the matter sold on guarantees. In this Directive 771 we amend certain rules of responsibility for material disadvantages, and guarantees for the lack of goods sold, and these are firstly the following changes. The term “material deficiency” shall be redefined, subjective and objective assessment criteria shall be laid down if such a deficiency exists. The hierarchy of the right of the customer is prescribed in such a way that the customer can first choose between repairs or replacements of things, and only after that if he does not receive the required repair or replacement, price reduction or termination of the contract. Rules are introduced on the obligations of sellers in the event of the purchase of items with digital elements in consumer contracts. These rules so far have not existed in the Law on Mandatory Relations because there was no concept of "things with a digital element". The deadline is extended where, on the seller, there is a burden of proof that the matter at the time of the transfer of the risk to the customer did not have a deficit from 6 months per year, except in trade contracts where the period of 6 months is maintained. It's a rule that applies to consumer contracts with a digital element, that's different, e.g. Smart phones, smart watches and stuff. Provisions on the guarantee of the correctness of the sold matter are amended, the name will be changed to the commercial guarantee. What is important to highlight in Directive 771 as opposed to this earlier in 1999, the directive is this maximum harmonisation, which means that it does not allow too many derogations from the provisions of the directive when transposed into the Croatian legal system. So far, the old directive has had different solutions in EU countries, so this directive aims to establish harmonisation across the EU. We propose to accept amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52762	We have one replica, two replicas. How many replicas do we have in the end on time? All right, three. The first is the replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52763	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I'm interested in the fact that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations is something that is not seen so often in HS, do you and any other information on whether there should be a reference to and adaptation to market conditions or whether your Government reacts only if Croatian legislation is necessary to adapt to EU regulations and directives? Does the Government have any consciousness, any idea, plan on what Croatia needs, or are you just the mere perpetrators and copyists of other people's norms and other people's rules? In addition, those directives and those rules that serve consumer protection can be applied directly if the system of implementation of these same rules in Croatia works properly, and the fact that it does not work properly is also your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52764	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52765	... Dear Representatives Oreskovic, these are amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations in what the Republic of Croatia is obliged to be a full member of the EU. [[Specially enabled.]] This awareness of the government is it was placed on your personal political commentary. As for the other proposals that the working group had, at the moment some of these proposals are being repeated, our assessment is that certain acceptance of the proposal would undermine the balance in constitutional terms, some proposals went even into retroactive application in the Croatian legal system. This is about first reading, so there will be more debates in this, there will be any amendments, we have fixed certain things in and implementing this Directive, but also some nomotechnical ones that have not yet been. As for major and major amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, and that is possible, we will see, there are certain proposals. In this case, our assessment is that this directive is very important to implement in the Croatian legal system, especially because of these, the purchase of goods with digital content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52766	The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52767	So a little bit on the trail of this question, so here a very important law is changing and here we are again adapting to this EU legal legislation, but we are not considering those articles that are truly criminal and problematic to our people. So, do you think about adjusting this law in a way that will benefit the majority in Croatia, and above all in the part that determines debt relations, means the relationship of debtors to the believer, which many have noticed is therefore entering into one type of debt slavery precisely because of this Law, which allows not to return the principal but to return interest and to perpetuate this debt poverty. So first of all, I'm asking you if you're going to come up with such courage that you're still changing the article. 29 to tighten interest, when it reaches the height of the principal, it stops running. 172 that, if the debtor next to the principal owes both interest and expenses, First they find the costs, then the principal [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and finally interest. [[Intruder: Answer of the Honored State...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52768	... Secretary Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52769	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Peovic. We have already talked several times in the Croatian Parliament about the Law on Mandatory Relations and the order of payments regarding interest, chief. We compared EU countries, full members and some of our neighbours, it is not as black and white as it can be spoken in free political speech and debate, it is not. So in this case, there's a risk that they'd even be giving loans to apartments. There is a risk of imbalance in these debt-religious relations. This government has made a number of steps to help our debtors. You remember the debate over the Executive Act, the amendment of the Executive Act, then after Covida-19 and that crisis, how much of this has been done to amend that Law and how few are now these executive procedures and problems related to the implementation. This is going to be an open topic, this is the first reading, but what you mentioned, it's a joint debate regardless of political worlds, I think it's our joint mission. For the future and there will be time for that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52770	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52771	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I will stick to the subject of these concrete amendments and the addition of the Law on Mandatory Relations. What I'm interested in, you mentioned, therefore, things with digital elements, so smartphones or smart watches, for example, specifically art. 401a, so the new article that is being added, the question of updating so these new software and what is actually happening is that consumers, if within a reasonable time, do not make these changes, or install these updates, in fact, the seller will not be responsible for these shortcomings, and here, my question is clear, did you think in which way, given that most of us, I will personally go from myself, sometimes I take it lightly precisely for the updates, the notifications we get. How do you think and whether you've thought about a little bit more informing consumers, or the public about these changes? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52772	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52773	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is exactly why we implemented this Directive with the Croatian Law on Mandatory Relations. So far, it has happened that our citizens are buying in EU markets a variety of digital content products that have not been the subject of the Mandatory Relations Act so it happens that this guarantee lasts for 6 months, that the seller invites you to take over, update the data you should or should not. If there's a malfunction in the device, it won't take over the guarantee why you did it, and some of those software's not so sure. The management therefore extends this guarantee that the buyer would have a fair market situation and that he could get a possible repair or a new product if such problems arise. So that's why it's important to modernise ourselves in the times we live in, that what used to be a topic of purchasing relationships, now it's something else entirely. That is why it is our common mission to regulate these contractual relations in Croatia equally in all EU countries. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52774	Thank you. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52775	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, honourable secretary of state, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to, as well as many laws which have been referred to in this conference, is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, and today it is explicitly the subject of only this part of harmonisation, we have no discussion or change in the proposal, the draft law amending and supplementing the law, anything outside of the directive that we are actually harmonizing with. So I'll try to actually keep my debate in that part too. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the proposed amendments and additions to the legislation have not met the enthusiasm and understanding of the SDP's Club of Representatives have already raised concerns for consumers, for our fellow citizens who, because of the provisions of this law, will potentially encounter problems in the exercise of their rights, in the event of an attempt to achieve their right to remove deficiencies by sellers or producers. I'll explain later why and where, where I see the problem. The reason for such an attitude is the prescribed amendments and additions in Art. 10th Bill of Law, which defines amendments and additions. 410. The zoo. So where do we see the problem? The fact is that in art. Article 10(1) states that a customer who has informed the seller in good time and neatly of a lack of authority to require the seller to remove the deficiencies, to require the seller to hand over other items without defects, to request a proportionate reduction of prices and to declare the termination of the contract, that was similar to that defined in the old, old law, or the old mandatory law, which is currently in force, and in Article 10(1). 2. states that in each of these cases, the customer has the right to repair damages according to the General Rules on Responsibilities to damages, including damages that he suffered from the lack of things on his other good. These are the articles of the law that are detained from the current PDO and we welcome because they are promising for consumers and hope that consumers will succeed in achieving their rights. That's the same thing for an art. 11th Proposal for a Law to Prescribing Article 410, which we also welcome, means 410a. which we also welcome. I will also say a proposal that should be complemented there, or modified, in order to be in line with what we are actually expecting. But what's worrying is that in art. The 10th Amendment of the Law in Articles 3 and 4 gives too much space to the seller to delay removing the shortcomings or replacing things, which could potentially lead the buyer into an uninvited position. I'm not going to talk about cell phones, about smart watches, about smart phones and other things that are kind of exclusive, I'm going to talk about one thing that needs a wide range of our people, our fellow citizens, I'm going to talk about, one example of a simple freezer. What happens when a customer comes in and breaks down the freezer box, which is full of groceries at home, comes into the store and manages to buy a box with the last money, comes home, and that new box doesn't work. We know that deep-freezing boxes don't buy every day, they buy eventually when they move into the house, and when the device really breaks down at home. When we have home an empty chest of this so if we have a broken box at home we simply have to buy a new one. Now, the problem is that Art. 3 and 4 The 10th Bills give the seller enough space to stall with the replacement, in this case the repair is not acceptable to the buyer because at home the box is full of foods to start defrosting unless they are moved into a new correct box in the next few hours. This is one example that our fellow citizens, consumers who come, buy and then have nothing, have no substitute for what they wanted to buy, and the seller according to this section 3 and 4 actually has no obligation to deliver it to him as soon as possible correctly as possible than it can go either for repair or, or replacement. This is just one of the examples that makes us think that the above paragraphs 3 and 4 should be prescribed in a way that defines in which cases an emergency replacement of things or delivery of the right things and the takeover of the wrong things, and the same is the case that a new thing that has been purchased has been corrupted. We therefore appeal to the legislator to carry out the intervention referred to in Articles 3 and 4. 10. Correct or add new articles to make it easier for the customer to exercise its rights. If this proposal is not acceptable, we believe that it was also a good solution to intervene in art. The 11th Proposal for a Law which states in Article 1 that repair or replacement of things with a lack is to be implemented free of charge within a reasonable period of time from the time when the buyer has informed the seller of the lack and, without significant inconvenience to the customer, taking into account the nature of the matter and the purpose for which the purchaser was required. What we would suggest is that it actually intervenes in the part of the approach to define the term "reasonable time limit", so that the customer is more secure that the thing that was delivered to him, possibly incorrectly, will get in as soon as possible correct and can be used for what was the first intention. I am sure that I do not need to stress specifically that the position of the SDP is not understood./... that we systematically protect the rights of consumers who are always weaker in the market, in conflict with large market players, and therefore, among other things, I propose and that as soon as possible in all major cities, legal assistance offices for consumers will be established, I think that this will help them because here today our large trade chains have great rights, our customers are very difficult to exercise their rights. We welcome the articles of the proposal for a law relating to digital content as their regulation makes clear that the definition of behaviour that must be changed due to technological progress in our environment. I'm also not going to talk about some luxury goods here, I'm going to talk about the goods that are used every day in our households, we're all aware that we have Internet of things, so it's all connected to the Internet today, and it's basically almost all the goods that we have at home, actually, are dependent on whether or not it's connected to the Internet, especially these new devices that can be reprogrammed online and that can be serviced and can actually be done to detect the malfunctions on the Internet. In particular, it must be changed because of the new technological solutions used in the production of goods of general consumption. All these changes that take place around us that expect certain behaviours from consumers because otherwise things will not work or will not work in the expected way, also require the definition of behaviour by both consumers and sellers and manufacturers, as well as the consequences if they do not comply with the prescribed procedures. The digital content used in production in fact with digital elements leaves a lot of room for producers to behave inappropriately and therefore it is necessary to try to define these possible actions in sufficient detail to give consumer safety as much as possible. On the other hand, we must not forget that when using things with digital elements and digital content, we are also expected to have certain consumer behaviour, with consumers clearly presented through the instructions and through the accompanying documentation, which is expected in the work of handling digital content. The fact is that new products have more and more functions, but unfortunately for consumers if we want such devices to function in the expected way, these consumers must take certain actions to maintain new versions of software, the data needed for the operation of these devices used in these products, regardless of whether the manufacturer has made a new version available for the removal of errors in older versions or for the improvement that will offer consumers new functionality. The complexity of behaviour and complexity of consumer, producer and seller relationships will appear within a very short period of time, and I believe that we will have new amendments and additions to the law in that part and we must not forget the state of existing internet infrastructure that is currently not at our own level and since it is certain that producers, one of those digital content, will make available to consumers via the Internet... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52776	Thank you very much. The following is the Club of Representatives of that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Jelkovac will speak, please. [[Invader Pavić: Okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52777	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is, as has already been said, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Mandatory Relations, as one of the most important laws in our legislation that regulates the basics of mandatory relations and contractual and non-contractual mandatory relations. First of all, I will say something about the history of what is proposed today, so the Law on Mandatory Relations also transposed Directive 1999/44 of the EC on certain aspects of selling goods of general consumption and on guarantees for such goods. Although this directive has regulated certain aspects of consumer contracts for the purchase of goods, it has been transposed into our legislation in a way that refers to non-consumptive contracts. The rules of the Directive are laid down in the provisions of the PDO which regulate the institution of the seller’s responsibilities for material shortages of goods and guarantees for the correctness of the sold goods and the rules are general for all purchase contracts, whether they are civil-law, commercial or consumer contracts, except where different rules are laid down for trade or consumer contracts. For example. Shorter the term of responsibility for the seller for the lack of things. Directive 1999/44 has been replaced by Directive 2019/771 on certain aspects of the contract on the purchase of goods, amending Regulations 2017/2394 and Directive 2009/22 and repealing Directive 1999/44. The objective of Directive 2019/771 is to remove barriers related to contractual law which interfere with cross-border trade in order to address the problem of consumers and business operators and to avoid costs incurred by Member States due to differences in contract rights. It is estimated that the minimum compliance approach provided for in Directive 1999/44 does not encourage consumers to purchase from other EU Member States or business entities for sale in other Member States. The objective of Directive 2019/711 is to remove these barriers linked to contract law which interfere with cross-border trade, reduce uncertainty for business operators and consumers and reduce costs for them. Directive 2019/771 is a Directive of maximum harmonisation which allows for the derogation from the rules laid down therein only in the cases set out in the Directive, which is good because of the validity of the same rules on the common market. The Directive does not affect the freedom of Member States to regulate the general aspects of contract law, such as the rules on the conclusion, validity, integrity or effects of a contract to the extent to which they are not established, governed by the Directive. The Directive also contains rules applicable to contracts for the purchase of goods with digital content or digital services, which is a newspaper. These amendments to the Law propose to transpose the rules of the Directive into the Law on Mandatory Relations as general rules applicable to all purchase contracts and to all matters with special arrangements of certain institutions for certain types of contracts, e.g. For commercial contracts, a period of 6 months has been maintained in which on the seller there is a burden of proof that the lack did not exist at the time of the risk transition, and some rules apply only to consumer contracts, such as arrangements for the obligation to deliver, updates for things with a digital element to ensure that the matter remains without defect. In order to comply with the Directive, it is proposed to regulate in the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations the liability of the seller for material disadvantages in several ways and to amend the provisions on the guarantee of the correctness of the sold matter. The hierarchy of the rights of customers is also prescribed in the case of material scarcity of things in such a way that the customer can first choose between repairing or replacing things so as to disagree with the remarks made by his colleague Pavić and I do not think that consumers will be brought into a worse position than they are now and other than these provisions, consumers will, as so far, be protected by the Consumer Protection Act. As regards these amendments and the addition of laws, it is proposed that they enter into force from 1 January 2022 and apply to all contracts which will be concluded after that date. Thank you. The HDZ Club will support these amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52778	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52779	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. Since this is only the first reading, on behalf of the club, I will remain abstentions on the support of this Law, and for you MPs, and so here I will try to open a few topics just so much to think about. So I'm primarily a practitioner, so I know what problems, vague, insufficiently defined, under-thinking and undeveloped provisions create in practice, and what that actually means is that everyone who has his rights in principle well-imagined in some legal act, so how difficult it is to implement them in practice. I also support the coordination and some good changes that come from EU levels aimed at better consumer protection, and thus consumers who are our Croatian citizens, however, would not be enough for me to cite and convince all cases of practice when we had two different situations, or two different protection mechanisms, one through the Consumer Rights Act, the other through some other provisions of the law, which were mutually conflicted. After all, in court it did not lead to better protection, and as a rule, our citizens, whoever was on the other hand, lost their disputes. Now, why am I saying that? As a legal act, the EU Directive only obliges those results to be achieved, and national Member States are allowed to find the appropriate form and find the appropriate method. What's the problem of the Croatian state and our governments, I don't know if it's because of irresponsibility, lack of interest or ignorance, is that they don't think, when they're copying some, let's say in principle, good provisions, they don't really think about what this will mean in practice. And we now have a directive here that speaks of things that have embedded digital elements, digital content, digital services, but more or less, more or less, it's a simple contract for the purchase of goods, regardless of what the goods have specific content. So then we have one general provision, the general principle of mandatory law contained in the article. 11 The Law on Mandatory Relations, which states that participants can regulate their mandatory relationship in a different way, if, from one provision of this Act, or from its meaning, it does not result in anything else. And if it were up to me and I could be the one to judge in any particular case, I would very often say that the very purpose of these provisions is to be binding in nature and to actually protect the consumer regardless of what, in a specific purchase contract, the seller may actually, on the basic principle of the basic principle of our right, define and install something else, by signing or realising the contract, be it considered that the buyer has agreed to the amended provisions of the contract, and thus reduced his own legal protection. Through the interpretation of this Act, which is as dry as any other, which says we prescribe what is written at EU level, it is not said in any way, that this basic principle of mandatory relations dating back to the time of Roman law, so freedom of contracting parties, if it is not explicitly prescribed, will be reflected in the practice, when, for example, the Croatian buyer of digital disadvantages will need to be reached before the court of some other jurisdiction. So if we really want better and better quality legal protection, then we should also take account of these procedural elements, and as we know, and we will probably talk about it a little bit more tomorrow, that the first and basic problem of our judiciary is inconsistencies and unequal legal practice and lack of legal certainty, different interpretation of the same provisions at different courts and to that level, to this extent, that we very often have situations that second-degree courts, so county courts in appeal proceedings one and the same legal provision interprets in a different way. And if we already have in this ordinary contract on the purchase of goods, regardless of what the goods themselves have digital content, the space to say the buyer and the seller have used their basic principle from mandatory relationships, so they have otherwise arranged their mutual obligations and rights in a way that actually derogates everything that, all that matters what this directive wants to achieve, I ask you what we have done? We haven't done anything, but I believe that, however, perhaps not you, but someone would have to have some broader legal knowledge and be aware that not every law is the object of a well-written law, nor that it is voted by a parliamentary majority that does not go into details, but that the aim of each law should be to implement it, to be realistic, to be practical and to be meaningful in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52780	We are now going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52781	Good afternoon, everyone. This is therefore another one of those laws that are famously referred to as harmonising with the EU Directive or the EU acquis. So this law is going in the direction, I would say, and hypertrophy of consumer rights. In this direction, we do not have any objections, so that in this way we regulate things, means redefining the term "material deficit", to introduce specific rules on the obligations of sellers in the event of the purchase of things with digital elements, extending the time limit in which the goods on the seller have been proven that the matter at the time of the risk transition did not have a shortage, a reduction of prices, a termination of contracts, the right of the buyer to pay the outstanding part of the price, etc. But what we have a problem with is that here again, the articles that ultimately have a very small impact on the lives of people in Croatia are Articles 399 to 429 relating to consumer rights. Why do they not have much influence on the lives of customers, is it consumers, as the law calls them in Croatia? Well, because there are fewer customers and fewer consumers, and less and less, the possibility of people spending. This growing regulation on consumers is protecting us when we are consumers, but it protects us poorly when we are creditors or debtors, excuse us. And this law is very important precisely because the opening of the question of this law would have been used to warn that the protection is missing here. The ZOO is indeed a reflection of these relationships, the relationship between society and the consumers of the rich on the one hand and the debtors of the poor, to those who do not have for consumption, on the other hand, because this law sets out a much more existentially more unpleasant to say the relationship between debtors and creditors. However, HDZ will not regulate or touch it, even though the secretary of state replied that we are on the same side, that we want to be socially sensitive. That is not the answer, therefore, which is given to protect the believers in itself is symptomatic because the believers are protected, meaning that it is truly criminal in this law. According to the PSO, the calculation of interest and the cost of meeting the obligations shall be carried out in a manner prescribed. 172 according to which, if the debtor owes both interest and accounting costs, the costs are first settled, then the interest and then the principal, until the debtor settles the principal of the interest ceases to flow. The believer therefore has the right to a tight interest, regardless of whether he has suffered any damage due to the debtor's delay. If the damage suffered by the believer due to the debtor's delay is greater than the amount he would receive in the name of the tight interest he has the right to claim the difference to the full compensation of the damage. The believer is therefore fully protected, the provisions of Art. 172 and 29 have had a significant impact on the debtor's inability to fully repay the debt, i.e. the principal and secondary claims. I'm going to give you one example, so for example, if the housing loan was 500,000 kuna then the annual tight interest rate, interest in other relationships is currently 5.89, on that amount somewhere around 29-30,000 kuna. In the event of a delay in payment, the creditor of the bank shall in such a case initiate an executive procedure on the entire assets of the debtor. If the debtor was in a working relationship and had a monthly net salary of 6.724 kuna, which is generally not because the media net salary is lower, the amount of such salary is excluded from the commission 2/3, which means that the bank can collect the highest amount of 1/3 or, in the case of monthly remuneration of 2.241 kuna, it amounts to 26.896 kuna per year. Therefore, in a concrete example, the believer is charged with an amount of HRK 26.896, which means that if he was in a working relationship, the debtor would not settle even the annual tightening interest, and this further means that the debt of the principal will not be paid at all. So it's about a kind of debt slavery, and it's part of this law that we're supposed to change so people can benefit from our legislative proposals and what we're doing here. Many debtors are thus losing hope of getting out of debt slavery. Not only is there no discipline in payment, but debtors are forced to live in so-called. The gray zone, blocked for years, actually disabled to settle that debt, as well as other debts. I therefore announce that the Workers' Front will seek amendments to the article. 29. to tighten interest when it reaches the height of the principal ceases to flow, etc. 172. If the debtor owes both interest and expenses, first the costs are settled, then the principal and finally the interest. It would be something that would really affect the lives of people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52782	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the Jekovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52783	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members, in your debate, you have looked more at something that is not at all part of these amendments and the addition of the proposed ones. It has been said that these amendments and the complementarity of the relationship to the actual integration of the directive into the PDO, and as regards what you said, the relationship between debtors and creditors because they are regulated in a way that they are protected both in the manner to which this is possible. As far as the Executive Act is concerned, he solves as a lex specialis all these other postulates of this whole procedure, and we talked about it many times when the proposal of the Executive Act was here for discussion. I appreciate your opinion on this, but it's not today's subject of debate, these amendments and the addition of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52784	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52785	Yes, there is often a topic of debate in this House where most in Croatia do not bring much good, so we should constantly turn the subject of the debate on what is really used by this social majority and what is very rarely talked about here, as is rarely spoken of by workers, so rarely here we talk about blocked people. But when you say he's protected by both a believer and a debtor, that's not true. So it's not true, the believer here is hypertrophysed against the debtor, the debtor has no ability to get out of debt slavery, as I mentioned in this example, so if there is a debt and indeed not, this law can solve it. This Law can resolve that the debtor therefore, when, when the interest is tightened, when he reaches the height of the principal, we can really settle it with this Law, there is no limit to doing so and that, if the debtor, next to the principal, owes interest and expenses, the costs are first settled, of course, then the principal and then only interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52786	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52787	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I intended to actually talk only about digital content because I was the part that was related to consumer protection itself but also said at the beginning, however, it seems that it was not understood what I wanted to say and where we actually see the problem. We see the problem in art. 10 that actually regulates art. Law 400 and, just a little bit, let me look at it correctly, so it doesn't turn out like I said something wrong, Art. 410 regulates and refers in fact to items art. 3 and 4, if, and I said we actually see the problem here because the potential consumer may have problems with achieving its rights. Then my colleague told me she didn't see the problem. I'm just going to read this, a few sentences, or parts of those items. So, St. 3, when exercising the right to remove deficiencies, the customer has the right to choose between repairs and replacements of things, unless the chosen method of removing the deficiency would be impossible or, in other words, the elimination of the lack of the seller would result in disproportionate costs taking into account,.../incomprehensible/... further that I do not read. In Article 4, the seller is authorised to refuse to remove the deficiencies, if repair and replacement are impossible or would result in disproportionate costs, taking into account, etc., etc. So the buyer can't exercise his right if the seller decides. And I warn you to try to regulate it. And in addition to this, we said that we had one term defined there in St. 11 that would regulate, which actually adds an art. 410a, where it says that the malfunction must be removed within a reasonable period and we have suggested that or add a few more items to the article. 10 or to change paragraphs 3 and 4 or to be in art. 11 defines what a reasonable term it is. A reasonable time limit for fixing the things you need today and which you came to buy urgently because you urgently need it can't be the same as for things you might need once a year. Therefore, it should be somehow regulated in this Law so that we can function normally. As for digital content, I started to talk about having problems, among other things, with the Internet, we are aware that in our country, the Internet doesn't work very well, at least not in all parts and in those parts where it doesn't work, and we have consumers who have bought things that will have... software or new data via the Internet, potentially there is a potential for consumers to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So how are you gonna... The version made available by the manufacturer for the removal of errors in the old version of software or for the improvement that will offer consumers new functionality? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The complexity of behaviour and complexity, i.e. the consumer, producer and seller, will appear within a very short period of time and I believe that we will also have new amendments and additions to this Act. We must not forget the state of existing infrastructure that is currently actually in some parts of the good, but occasionally does not work. Since it is certain that producers will make part of this software available via the Internet, we must ensure that our consumers... software, how it will collect data, so that their devices that are dependent on it can function. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or we'll have trouble operating those devices. What my colleague Peovic said, I agree with the fact that we have this problem, I hope the secretary of state agrees that we should solve these problems, the tasks in the Republic are a big problem, of course we have the law, so it's regulated there to deal with debts and which is the order of payment of these debts, but we need to see what happens to our customers or our consumers when they buy goods and when they fall into debt slavery because of some of the sellers' procedures and... and the manufacturer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52788	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52789	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pavic, you said that the Internet is not actually available on all parts of the Republic of Croatia, right. But it seems to me that this directive presupposes that the Internet works all over the territory and that we are all freaks to use the Internet. How do you actually protect those consumers who do not have access to the Internet and who do not use the Internet like electric engineers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52790	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52791	Yeah. The question of how will even some consumers who don't manage very well on the Internet or who don't manage at all on computers be able to renovate some software since some of them won't have the things that are connected, I mentioned before the term "Internet of Things", so these are all the things that... So they're connected to the Internet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say a dozen times ago, when I called the dishwasher repairman, he asked me what year your machine was, to see if I could look at your fault online, and if that malfunction could not be removed, but that what was wrong, to simply skip over to the washing process and continue using the machine without doing anything. It is important here that conditions must be met, to define in this law, that the seller or manufacturer must in some way reach the consumer to deliver it to him and to replace the software or data currently in that... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52792	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52793	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Pavić, obviously we didn't understand each other. When you say here that customers will not be protected because they will be able to choose between repairing or replacing things unless the chosen way of removing the deficiency is impossible, so you think that the customer will be brought into a more unfavourable position, I'm telling you that even now by guarantees too, so the customer can't always choose to give him a new thing but by guarantee, first the thing that advertises to repair is going on, and then if it can't be fixed, he has the right to replace the thing. This is a general provision. Therefore, the Consumer Protection Act as a lex specialising consumer protection is certain and it will continue to apply that the customer will be protected in any case and will not happen because of this provision, such as it is, it is unprotected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52794	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52795	If I'm not mistaken, you're a professional lawyer, right? So I have no doubt that your interpretation of the law is correct, but we who read the law and when we asked for the interpretation of these particular items within the article, we were told that there is a potential danger for consumers and I called it a potential danger and I asked you to remove this potential danger if possible. So, I didn't say that would happen, but I said that we saw a potential danger and I'm asking that this potential danger be removed in the way I've already stated or in art. 10. in paragraphs 3 and 4,... A new item or that paragraph 11 defines the reasonable time limit that will help the consumer to be able, regardless of what has happened, to obtain either a replacement or a repair within which it is suitable for him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now let's not point out again the example I've set, so it's a product of broad consumption that we all need, and we know what happens to us if we don't have that thing in the house.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52796	Thank you. The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52797	Good afternoon. I'm interested in your opinion on how to resolve this issue, so we have one of the weakest Internets, the slowest Internet in Europe, the Workers' Front has given a proposal for a tax on digital services that would enrich the budget for 150 million that we specifically offered or measured into a telecommunications network and improve that internet. I'm curious because I know it's your profession, what's your solution? So we really have one of the most controversial Internets, how do we solve it, and how do we even make this infrastructure a communication improvement?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52798	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52799	Well, here I was, when I was at an opportunity of 5.6, 7, 8 years ago, offering solutions and we actually proposed to local communities that, in cooperation with investors who can really find themselves with us, introduce optical infrastructure to them in the local community, in local self-government, pardon, local self-government units, and then, after that, all the users who can pay for it and the rest of them to pay for the city or the community where they live, of course, if they want to. You have a part of the people who want it, there's just no progress here. On the other hand, we had a debate a few months ago and we saw actually the money we need to get from Europe, we need to get 24 billion euros, one part, a large part of that money, if I'm not mistaken, 25% is actually singled out, should be set aside for information, internetisation, means for and for building information infrastructure, and I think that would actually be the right solution if local self-government and all citizens in that part of investment were involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52800	Thank you. Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions. The next item will be the report on police work in 2018 and 2019. 4. The law of the police. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Does the report's representative want to give an additional explanation? State Secretary Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52803	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52805	Dear President, you haven't noticed me, I've raised my hand, I'm looking for a break if I can explain it right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52806	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52807	Thank you. So, I am looking for a break on behalf of the Center and GLAS Party Club in order to further consult within the club in which we will propose HS and all other clubs, to all MPs, as well as representatives of the ruling majority to refuse, literally refuse to discuss this report for the reason why it is not submitted, as indicated, in accordance with Article. 4th century 2. The law of the police. Namely, the article clearly defines the deadlines in which such reports are submitted to HS, and it is said that the chief police director submits a written report on police work for the past year by 31 March at the latest, the minister delivers it to the government, and the government submits this report by 1 June, so it is referring to the report for the past year. We can all see that this report is for 2018, so for 2018 and 2019. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And instead of today, given that the conditions and deadlines have already been met, we are discussing the submitted report for the last year, which is gone, and we are talking about whether the police have committed excessive force towards those who have failed to comply with the epidemiological measures, whether they have failed to respond against those who have violated the epidemiological measures because they were politically protected persons, whether there have been security failures to fire on Mark's market, whether there have been leaks of information in criminal investigations, particularly of a corrupt nature like Janaf. We should discuss this today, not the outdated 2018 and 2019 reports. which the government sent to HS in violation of the Police Act. So what kind of state are we when the police who are supposed to protect order violates their own laws under which it works?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52808	Thank you very much. You've exceeded your time significantly. Please, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure, shall we? Of course this break is approved, in accordance with Article. 293.b. We'll continue to work, so I'm calling on the motionary's representative... Uh, here you go, dear representative Maria Selak Rasdic, for a break, I suppose. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52809	Yeah, I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Most Club. In fact, before we even start talking about a police report for any year, we need to get a moral right to talk about it. And that right can only be obtained if we look back at what happens to the police in our immediate vicinity every day when we go to our jobs in this tall home. Ladies and gentlemen, during the winter I warned that our officers were freezing to guarantee our safety without having basic material conditions so that they could stay in this cold and keep us safe at the same time. Right now, the situation is, I dare say, even more dramatic. On this starboard our officers are staying in plastic or metal containers that have several square meters, we all listened and read about how fast it takes one car to warm up to make the temperature unacceptable to life. Well, in such conditions, our officers keep our safety safe while we come here to these beautiful grand and cooled rooms. We don't have the moral right to talk about the state and the work of the police without pre-appealing and requiring all competent services to ensure adequate conditions for the officers who keep us from this house and cook on this whistle. So will they even be able to defend us on the edge of the mirage because of these conditions if there are security threats? Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't just a moral issue, it's a security issue. Provide decent conditions for our officers to keep us safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52810	Thank you. Of course we'll grant you a break. I think a fellow Sacic called, too, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52811	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. We, too, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, are asking for a break for the reason that we see that the institution of HS is not respected by the representatives of the executive authority and the rapporteurs of the report, while respecting certainly the distinguished lady. the Secretary or representative of the MUP. I find it inadmissible that today we are having a discussion of the pre-existing trades, how it was correctly concluded by colleague Oreshkovic, so it is even worse that we have no one to tell us what we are unhappy with so that they can correct the mistakes, whether there is no minister, his team, or his principal, so I ask you to postpone this and return it to the government with a fus note to insult us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52812	Thank you very much. Of course we'll respect your request for a break, too. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 293.b. We will continue to work, so now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52813	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President HS, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. In the summary presentation, I will present the most important indicators of factual activity and related to the work of the Croatian police and the MUP during 2018 and 2019. But also given the time course, we can also compete or observe in the context of the current security situation. The report shows that Croatian police are developing and improving their capacities during 2018 and 2019 to preserve the security and protection of our country's inhabitants. In this respect, I will single out the data that in 2018, the MUP withdrew EUR 36.4 million from EU internal security funds while another EUR 30.6 million was withdrawn in 2019. I can add here that on the basis of the requirements submitted by the MUP at the end of last year, it is these days that the grant of a financial amount of EUR 15.9 million to be spent on operational costs to monitor the external border of Croatia and the EU. Therefore, respected MPs and MPs in the last 3.5 years provided more than EUR 83 million of European funds invested in the equipment of Croatian police. During this period, the material status of police officers as well as the technical equipment of the police has been significantly improved and remains successfully safeguarding the borders of our country and the EU despite continued pressure from migrants and attempted illegal entry beyond the official border crossings. Also, if we compare over the past decade, and looking at investment investments at the annual level in the MUP amounted to an average of 15 million kuna from the state budget, while only during the 2 years for which we submit the report, so in 2018 and 2019, these investment investments amounted to 260 million kuna, which is as you can see an exceptional increase in investment. I will single out some performance indicators, for example regarding police equipment in the past decade at the annual level, about before 2017, on average, 31 million kuna from the state budget, while during 2018 and 2019, I am also counting and the first half of 2020. these investments in police equipment amounted to 147.5 million kuna, which is also an exceptional increase in investment. It should be noted that in our country's area in the last 3 years, despite all the challenges and threats we face for human health and life, there has been no deterioration in the general security situation. As you know, the Council of the Union adopted a decision in October 2019 confirming that the Republic of Croatia has met all technical requirements for joining the Schengen area. Respected MPs and MPs, the MUP has also managed to form the most numerous and technically highly equipped border police in Europe, which is witnessed by indicators and facts. We can recall that Croatia has successfully achieved compliance with the technical conditions for membership in the Schengen area despite being subject to the most rigorous evaluation procedure under the revised Regulation on the Schengen evaluation mechanism from 2013 and despite continued migration pressure at our external borders. In this context, it should highlight the high commitment and professional work of all police families from the core, border, criminal, traffic through special and intervention, as well as numerous experts of the MUP. Also, it protects against illegal entry into the Republic of Croatia by co-ordinated work of all tribes, in fact, performs its primary task, which is to prevent crime that regularly monitors illegal migration, and is made up of organised criminal groups that unfortunately do not care about human lives, even when children are underage and vulnerable groups. Over the past 3.5 years, Croatian police have been processing more than 2600 migrant smugglers and at the same time has been the holder and initiator of international criminal research that has been hit seriously by organised groups of smugglers, primarily from BiH, Serbia and Slovenia. As is known, the permanent task of the Croatian police is to discover as many crimes as possible and to try to establish the foundation of suspicion for each perpetrator. In this regard, we want to highlight the trend in the rise of criminal research at national level. So, if we compare 2018 and 2019, the increase in criminal investigation at national level is 106.8%. The highest share of organised crime is 52.6% of the crimes referred to in Article 326. The penal law in other words illegal investment, movement and stay in the Republic of Croatia, another EU Member State or signatories of the Schengen Agreement. In addition, criminal research has shown an increased trend in the corruption behaviour of responsible persons in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and the exercise of functions in the bodies of state authorities of units of local and regional self-government. For the crimes of economic crime in 2018, 1117 persons were suspected, of which 121 legal and 996 natural persons, while the material damage caused by these criminal acts amounted to more than a billion and 5 million kuna. In 2019, Croatian police discovered 4137 crimes of economic crime, and the material damage caused by these crimes amounted to a billion and 200 million kuna. I would like to point out that during 2019, the MUP recorded 758 corruption crimes, which is an increase greater than 53% compared to 2018. At the same time, a small number of reported grey economy crimes over two years have conditioned complex criminal research on the issue of economic crime and corruption, such as Agrokor and Uljanik, 3rd May in which significant technical and personnel resources of the Croatian police were engaged, such research is extensive, complex and long-term and despite criminal charges and charges filed, require further significant involvement of police officers of this line of work. . /. H thH Appreciatives and MPs, such criminal research contributes to the resolution of systemic anomalies in economic relations in the country, as well as corrupt deviations in society, and is particularly important and positive in this regard. Except work on the so-called. Domestic cases are constantly strengthening co-operation with EU law enforcement authorities in international cases that also require additional efforts by police officers, especially officials of the Office of Economic Crime and Corruption. In the framework of the work of the Police Directorate Working Group entitled ‘Ovcara’ during 2018 and 2019. 53 people have been found to have committed 63 crimes against the damages of 510 Croatian civilians and defenders. Furthermore, it is important to say that the Air Transport Passenger Information Department has been established, which has strengthened police ability to prevent terrorism and serious criminal offences. It also re-designed aircraft units, increased flight and technical staff and initiated a procedure for a draft helicopter flight school. The M.O.P. Air Force was during this 2nd year. in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County took part in the implementation of support in the rescue of life and transport of the disabled, resulting in 301 intervention achieved. I would especially like to point out that it was during 2019. an increased number of police officers to combat cybercrime, thus strengthening the ability to combat cyber attacks, as well as preventing sexual abuse and exploitation of children via the Internet. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6859 crimes from the offence of child and family law have been detected and processed, which is an increase of almost 33%. This increase in the number of criminal offences detected is directly related to the implementation of a number of preventive activities by the police directed towards sensitizing the public, as well as to encouraging victims to report crimes, and all in order to reduce the dark figure in this form of crime. The National Road Safety Programme has been rescheduled by several dangerous road places, and what is particularly important are placed in the operational function fixed devices for measuring the speed of the vehicle, equipment and devices have been purchased, and if we compete a decade before 2017. when the annual investment from the state budget in the equipment of the transport police amounted to 2.2 million kuna, it is in this 2.g. 52.9 million kuna average investment. Major efforts have been made to implement all preventive projects carried out by the MUP alone or in cooperation with other institutions or civil organisations, e.g. "The Day as a Dream", "I Live Life Without Violence", "I Have a Choice", "Health for 5", "Small Weapons", "Subject Victims of Crimes and Violents", "Who is kidding with my data", "Together Against Hate speech" and many others. During 2018 and 2019 The minimum number of people killed in traffic accidents, fatal, severe and easily injured during the last 60 years since systematic traffic accidents. Nevertheless, Croatian police continue intensive preventive programmes. We're recording a rise in cybercrime by 36.3%. 20,278 cases of treatment against persons who have been found to have crossed the state line illegally have been recorded. During 2019. 63% more people were registered in an attempt to avoid border control compared to the previous year. And we're also seeing an increase in the search for international protection by 85.96%. Furthermore, 53% more are crimes of human trafficking, as well as abuse of asylum-seeking procedures or subsidiary protection. Dear MPs and MPs, by analysing all security indicators, we can conclude that the state of security in our country during the reporting period for which we submit this report has been satisfactory, and this is the case at the moment. I would like to point out that with all of these indicators of police work, we can be aware of the fact that the responsibility for the success of the Croatian police depends on the individual responsibility of each police officer or official, employee or employee of the MUP. Professionality of police officers, active willingness to provide assistance, especially victims, vulnerable groups and minors, decent treatment, personal morality of police officers, and effective activity, are the ways in which the MUP and future wants to gain the confidence of our country's residents in knowingly performing its role in accordance with the regulations. So we'll do the next three. continue to invest in the education of police officers and officials, employees and employees, and, above all, in the material technical equipment of the Croatian police because we seek the criterion of excellence. We intend to continue to strengthen the professional integrity of the police, i.e. all employees and employees, police officers and officials in order to respond adequately to all the modern security challenges and threats in the society in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52814	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit, the first is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52815	When we talk about the work of the police, we as Parliamentarians here are primarily interested in what their status is or how much they are able to achieve their rights and how much we can improve them. In that sense, I think it would be much more useful if you told us what our officers lack. So my question goes that way. How many police officers have applied for a contractual termination of a working relationship during that period? So, this report gives the impression that the police are all colorfully happy and well, that police officers, as you say in the conclusion, are motivated, trained and technically equipped, but the situation is much worse on the ground. So that we can help police officers, please answer my question how many have asked them to leave the system during that period?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52816	Dear Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52817	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear MPs Selak Rasdic, unfounded criticism or criticism based on insufficient guidance or partial information, say is not relevant. Therefore, I will not consider this criticism relevant. If we're going to speak in fact in that case, we're going to part ways in this matter. What is important to note is that in the past 10 years, which you have pointed out in your search for a break, 59.6 million kuna has been invested in the purchase of police uniforms on average, or 59.6 million kuna is invested if we want to go from the state budget annually, and now 388 million kuna is invested. This is not just a police uniform, but the same facts can also be presented for the material financial equipment of the police and the same fact can also be presented for the long-standing solving of the problems encountered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52818	Thank you. Honourable representative Rasudic has raised this breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52819	Art. 238, demeaning by saying this is an unfounded criticism. I first quoted your report to you, and the only thing that is unfounded here is obviously your incompetence because you didn't give me the answer to the key question I asked you, which is the question that tells us what the real state of the system is, how many police officers had a request for a contractual termination of a working relationship during that period? You skipped that, obviously for a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52820	Thank you. Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you're getting in accordance with the article. 239th notice. The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52821	State Secretary, today you have absolutely no legitimacy to speak of this report, not a single word. And if Mr. Reiner were worthy of the role and dignity of President HS, he would have instructed you to step out of the assembly. I am truly ashamed that I am a member of the summoning HS who has forgotten his constitutional role, control of the authorities, control of the executive authority. The police should be the guardian of order, the peacekeeper, the lawkeeper, and we have a minister of police and a government in general who does not respect the law on police, nor the HS as an institution. And I am equally ashamed and listening to your presentations on the billions that have been put into training and the equipment of HV which is naked, almost naked, in the snow, rain, heat and sun standing unarmed and very often has to press charges in order to achieve their rights under collective agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52822	Thank you very much. Do not exceed your time as you do it on purpose. I'm asking you nicely to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The Secretary of State may or may not have to answer this statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52823	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Representative Oreskovic, we are talking about the Croatian police, not the Croatian HV. We spoke in fact that Croatian police today are one of the most equipped in the EU's material and technical sense, which I supported with concrete documents. Unfortunately, I have to notice here your ignorance of strategic documents, perhaps partial reading of legal and sublegal acts. It is clear to me that you cannot have insight into all internal documents, and then it clearly affects the perception of this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52824	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by a respected representative of Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52825	Dear Secretary of State, when you and your ministry and government direct an HS which is your supervisory report within the prescribed time limit, then I may, but only perhaps, allow you to give me a statement of what I know or do not know from the strategic documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52826	Okay. Based on an article. In 239, I give you a warning because of course it was none of this violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask the respected representative of the Mažar for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52827	Thank you, well-respected chairman and esteemed secretary of state. The increase in road safety is one of the permanent and fundamental tasks of the Croatian police, which also affects the overall state of public security. And for this reason, they certainly encourage data on the continuing and constant decline of the number of people killed in car accidents. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It was 317, 2019. It was 297. What is certainly further encouraging is data related to the past 2020. when it was an additional reduction to 237, and it also continues during this year, where I believe we will go below the number of 200 people killed, thus fulfilling the objective of the National Road Safety Programme. For this reason, I congratulate the Croatian police and the adoption of the Law on road safety in 2019, but also everything that makes this number continuously decrease.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52828	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52829	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Representative Mažar, the Croatian police, as I pointed out not only during 2018 and 2019 for which we are submitting this report, continue to implement preventive programmes on a continuous basis, although information is interesting and we look forward to it during the 2nd year. a minimum number of traffic accidents with easier, more severe and fatal consequences recorded in the last 60 years since these indicators have been measured. What is particularly challenging for Croatian police is the state of road safety during the tourist season, and as you know during last year's tourist season and during this year's tourist season, we have a headquarters that includes the international component, and the headquarters is in fact concerned with the state of transport. What's important is to say that during... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52830	Next replica of the esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52831	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, reading the report, I have come up with one disturbing piece of information, and I am talking about a violation of the lines of demarcation of the state border by Slovenian vessels. In 2017, there were 914 of them, 2018. 1556, and 2019. 1796 injuries to the lines of demarcation by Slovenian vessels. I wonder if this problem at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been notified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if you have discussed these injuries, if you have brought any security strategy that would protect our national border, and all in order, as you have always stated, the trust of our country's residents in the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52832	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52833	I thank the honourable MPs on the issue, I can inform you that during June at the Council of Ministers of the Interior, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Ministry of Interior Bozinovic discussed the subject with the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Slovenia, among other things, so we are aware of the problem. We cannot apostrophe it as significant as long as it becomes something that, which comes out of the box, and at this point we believe that the situation with the border crossings including this topic that you are talking about is under control or that everything is in accordance with the regulations and that the situation is fully in line with what we expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52834	The next replica is the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52835	Dear Secretary of State for all the good that our fellow officers have done, of course, to support them and to encourage them to continue in spite of the low wages, poor status and weaker equipment that we are witnessing from union leaders and many others and there are absolutely many colleagues who would like to and in the deserved pension, however, cannot go because there are not enough people who will do their job. But since the '18s report, '19, I don't want to waste any energy on the breakdown of all these elements about crime and the state of security because it's really past the pace to pass, but I'm telling you that like me you're going to replace your ID card a month ago I waited 4 hours to hand over, in Petrinjski to hand over the paperwork, and yesterday 3,5 hours to get it, and there are 200 squares inside, and 300 people and against epidemiological measures, I recommend to Minister Bozinovic to hold one session. And to conclude and to take measures to get rid of it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52836	Thank you very much. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52837	Dear fellow Sačić, esteemed representative, why you did not use the system of e-Citizens, which can significantly improve the speed of obtaining personal documents and travel documents... in that, [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Not in that, you can use the system of e-citizens. [[Intruder: Please let's not from the bench.]] And what is certainly important to say the indicators during 2018 and 2019 are quite relevant to the current security cannot unfortunately agree with you that the police are not technically equipped because if we are speaking in fact then we really need to stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52838	The Republic has a respected representative, Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, on June 26th, we will mark the International Day for Combating Drug Abuse and I would like to point out here, in particular, all the successes made by the Drug Crime Service. According to indicative data, Europeans spend EUR 30 billion per drug per year on retail sales, 40% of which is on marijuana, but cocaine is increasing more and more and more, and if we look at the situation and 2018, but in 2021 we will see how successful Croatian police are, how co-operated with other international authorities, with other police from both the region and beyond, and ultimately we have that Croatia is a safe country and thanks to all MIP employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52840	Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52841	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Representative Celic, as you have well noticed, the Croatian police not only during 2018 and 2019 for whom we are submitting this report but also continuously implements not only preventive actions but also excellent international cooperation to prevent drug abuse and drug trafficking both with Interpol and with Europol. Croatian police have had several successful international actions in which they have participated on this particular topic that you have apostropheeded.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52842	The Republic also has a respected representative, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52843	Dear Secretary of State, I hope that you agree that today's discussion of these 2018 reports makes no sense, that this is deplaced, and in fact the meaning of the report would be that we have the data available and that we react spotlessly to the perceived shortcomings and try and through a legal initiative or changes in the law to help police officers do their job as well as they do it today. However, we know that we have new phenomena and that we need to help the police in that area. What I'd like to ask you as a question is, first of all, did you make it with the cops all, with the police to come up with a common solution in part of the pay account? We know that there's a problem because they haven't had an increased base, we know that there's a problem with the supplements, and that these problems have been going on for a long time and that they're actually losing money from the state budget. Basically everyone who sued got sued, and after that other than being... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52844	The answer to a respected secretary of state. Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52845	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, I will try to answer your two questions. Why just now report for 2018 and 2019, so I know that you are well aware that the agenda of the plenary session is being established, and you have also seen that there have been more priority and more urgent legislative acts in the past period, and we all know for what reasons, there is absolutely nothing controversial about this, and here, if we are to talk about it, it is today at the government's 2020 Report, and we expect that this report will be really quickly included in the plenary agenda, I hope that. As for police systems, so police officers, I have to tell you that by the end of the year it's a systematization of jobs, but I wouldn't use a problem, because what you're talking about is a common practice in public administration so I wouldn't point that out here as a problem because there's really no problem as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52846	Dear Representative Simicevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52847	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Croatian police are doing difficult and responsible work day and night and indeed the Croatian state should do everything possible to continue investing in.../incomprehensible technology to feel protected and secure in doing everyday jobs. My question is about the tourist season, given the number of people and foreign and domestic guests who will come to the Adriatic coast, how the Ministry of the Interior solves the problem since certain reinforcements should come. And my second question is about prevention or education Health for 5, right? What does the Ministry of the Interior do to strengthen prevention in primary and secondary schools to protect against intoxicating drugs, alcohol and other illicit assets?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52848	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52849	Thank you, Your Honor. We can talk about security during the tourist season for a number of years because there are safety measures for the implementation of the Zadar-based tourist season. If you've been tracking the media, you've seen that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have opened this 24-hour headquarters. This headquarters started on June 14th and will last until September 15th and success, as you know, the tourist season depends not only on the parameters which are tourist indicators, but depends on how safe and pleasant the destination is for summering, and here the contribution of the interior police ministry is not only in traffic terms but in terms of general security. As far as your issue of preventive action is concerned, we must tell you that the action is being carried out continuously and in agreement with the Advocate General for the Children's Republic. Helencom Pirnat Dragicevic is still planning preventive action.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52850	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52851	Good afternoon. There is a lot of talk in the report about immigrants, but there is no record of what many NGOs warn about excessive violence at the border. Why isn't it so easy for these cops? Well, because again, it seems, we serve as the Antemurale Christianitatis or the defense of the fortress of Europe, and for the bosses we are doing a job which, by the way, is not on us, in this excessive violence, but the police themselves report, and as we know, immigrants do not intend to stop in Croatia, but only go to other countries. We also received photographs and video documentation of injuries and violence against immigrants, as well as a letter from Croatian police officers warning in an inhumane way of dealing with refugees, including women and children. I would like to know if the Croatian police are focusing on deterrence in accordance with Article. 13 Schengen Code on Borders, how is it possible that many immigrants who are being met deeply in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and those who were even in Slovenia, Italy, Austria are being returned to BiH?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52852	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52853	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. Do you think Croatia would have passed a positive Schengen evaluation if it hadn't been under special increase as far as illegal migrant crossings are concerned? Croatia is the police and the Croatian state obliged to respect Article 15. A Schengen code that says it is duty to deter illegal migrants or persons of third countries who are trying to enter illegally past official border crossings, not only in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but also in the EU. I guarantee you that the Croatian police have, not only passed checks by independent NGOs and parties not only European, but international levels. Also, UNICEF representatives, UNHCR, as well as representatives of international institutions and the EU commission, have visited the Croatian border several times and we can say that there have been Abuse by false charges of abuse [[Intruder: Thank you.]] If there's been a report, they're... [[Thank you. Next. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52854	Next replica, please, let's stick to the weather. The next replica is the respected MP Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52855	When you buy a car in Germany, the first mandatory technical examination is after 3 years, and then each other. In Croatia, the technical review is required every year, and is more expensive than the one in Germany. What is special in Croatia is that there is one of you very well-known companies, and this is the Center for Vehicles d.o.o. What that d.o.o. There are, and there are no thousands of others, the regulation of your ministry which ensures your income, folksly speaking, they sit, and swears go. In 5 years, the German paid 1,500 kuna for technical examinations and the Croat paid 6 thousand kuna. Please tell me, Mr Bozinović, who hears me very well even though you are hiding, and your mouth obliges you to respond to HS, for which reason do you favour the Vehicle Centre and who gives you the right to impose costs of hundreds of millions of kuna on Croatian citizens who go into the deep pockets of selected and similar rich people?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52856	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52857	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed representative Vidovic Kristo. As far as I'm aware, the law you're talking about, so the CVH was given the authority to carry out the technical checks from 2009. At the time, Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Bozinovic was not the interior minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52858	Dear Representative Vidovic Kristo has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in which has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52859	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, this is an insult to common sense and a parliamentary representative, Art. 238. Something was passed in 2009, so Mr. Bozinovic is able to influence it, raise his voice against injustice, against illegal acts, he is required by the Constitution to stand here today for you, all of us know, colleagues have warned me that he is breaking both the Constitution and the laws, and only, not only with this report but with all his work and what you say, with a camel voice when it is passed. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52860	Of course you know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you were founded. I give a warning in 239. The next replica of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52861	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected secretary of state. Just this weekend I think that we had 10 people killed on Croatian roads, from the very changes to the Road Safety Act last 2 years, and the national road safety programme expired in 2020, the goal of the local, total road safety changes, unfortunately we did not meet, and here I am interested in the MUP, which is with new programmes and preventive measures related to road safety because I see that these drastic fines from the amendments to the law have not been achieved perhaps the results we wanted in these 2 years, but I think we must put an emphasis exactly on prevention and education but also on the retraining of our drivers, so I wonder if we are planning any new preventive character programs that would reduce and affect the safety of the victims on the roads of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52862	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52863	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative, I believe that you know that this is ongoing and therefore you are asking this question, and as far as preventive programmes are concerned, they have been continuously implemented since 2017 through 2018, 2019, 2020, in a smaller form online because it has been COVID years but are currently under way as part of a safe tourist destination as mentioned in one of the previous answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52864	Replica of respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52865	Dear Vice President Reiner, State Secretary. Croatian police certainly deserve a lot of praise, I will send my thanks this time to the Air Force who has been intensively for the past 5 years and also covered by this report, helping in Dubrovnik-Neretva County during the summer and now from a few months ago is a full-time contract and there is just a very complicated rescue action going on with Mljet, it is actually the contribution of your pilots, your aircraft, all of them in the health system to make patients as soon as possible in the hospital. And the second big step is the special police who actually train their... that they can respond to the most complex tasks, although they are not medical education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certainly something to point out and to be proud of because it definitely stops with the European police and I think they deserve all the praise and, please, pass it on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52866	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representatives of Grba Bujević, can only agree with you, of course, that you are well aware of the actions taken by the Croatian police not only during the tourist season but throughout the year, and in addition, we are talking about the civil protection system and all the components and the purchase of helicopters and the purchase of canaders and the technical equipment that the Croatian police have invested over the past years, as I have mentioned, only 301 interventions have been carried out in one year and human life has been saved during the tourist season thanks to the intervention of the Croatian police.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52868	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52869	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. It is known that police, especially PNUSKOK in their work, have the right to use secret data collection measures that are of course particularly sensitive. In this report, we see nothing about the statistics on the application of these measures, and therefore, please, can you explain why there is no information in these measures in this report and why there is no detailed report on the work of PNUSKOK and since there is no detailed report on the work of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52870	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52871	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear MPs, as soon as the Croatian police complete a police interrogation and report to the State's Attorney's Office, the police no longer influence certain cases. This report has been made in accordance with all the legal regulations and as such the data here has been provided. What should certainly be pointed out is that the fight against corruption and organised crime since 2017 is particularly in the focus of the MUP and, as I believe you heard in my presentation, significant developments have been made in the discovery, especially in the area of economic crime and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52872	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52873	Dear Secretary of State, in the last few years in Međimurje County, an ordinary police officer no longer comes and doesn't enter Roma settlements and every intervention comes the intervention police. What's even sadder is that even representatives of local self-government units don't even enter a Roma settlement without the accompanying police. I find it sad because in such a way the police are moving away, moving away from both the population and moving away from the events that are supposed to happen. I wonder what you're gonna do about it or what you're gonna do about it. Gvala. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52874	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52875	Thank you. Dear Representative Kajtazi, if I am not mistaken, a few months ago we had a conversation on the subject of police administration, the conduct of the Pu of Međimurje and the integration of certain police officers of the Roma nationality of the police system, I believe that this issue was then absorbed and I believe that in fact, as far as this is concerned, there is nothing questionable if I understand the question correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52876	The Republic also has a respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52877	Dear Secretary of State, August 2020. The Republic of Croatia has visited the Council of Europe's Committee to prevent torture and inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment precisely because of frequent police charges of violating human rights of refugees and migrants at borders. The Committee made an official report and the government sent its reply to this report in February this year. The usual practice is that the report and the reply are published, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia refuses to publish it. The question, and you were saying here, so are the exact allegations and what exactly is contained in the report if you and your colleague Peovic have said that they are therefore guilty of the actions of our police, my question, if they do not already contain such allegations, why do we have no Report and why do we not have the government's answer to the Report?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52878	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52879	I would like to thank the honourable representative, Boric, for asking. I don't have any information as to why there isn't this report. I wish I could answer that, but I really don't have that information. As for the treatment and so on. The illegal treatment and deterrence of migrants in attempts to cross the Croatian border, as I said we have actually succumbed to all the tests and I think that, not only in accordance with the Dublin Agreement, we are not only in accordance with national legislation, not only in accordance with European legislation, but also with general acts of respect for human rights and the rights of vulnerable groups and that we have respected it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52880	Thank you very much. It's past noon, so we're going to take a break for the ventilation, and I'll see you again in 12 and 15 minutes. It's 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52881	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.18 HOURS]] If not then we will go to the debate, the first is the club of representatives of MOST, respected colleague Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52882	So there are a few things that need to be said to understand what our police are in and what we can do to improve their work and its material conditions. The first question that doesn't matter, and when these reports arrive, I'm going to be concrete and show what the key problem is. So, we are running late on all reports again, let them even break the law, the law says they have to arrive once a year, and that doesn't mean once after a few years, so we are now in a paradoxical situation that the government is at the same time discussing the report almost in real time for 2020, while we are in a meeting in another time zone and we are talking about the 2018 and 2019 report. And what's the problem? As someone who is actively working on obtaining key data from the MUP that persistently, I must say, wire instead of being available to me in these reports in time to be able to identify trends and warn them and thus activate police work and protect our citizens I am aware of how important it is for these data to arrive on time. Because here are the data that I have at my disposal and which are very concerned about Croatian citizens are extremely worrying, and they refer to the time of this crown of crisis and show that for some crimes such as the exploitation of children for pornography we have an increase in 2020 compared to 2019 by 30%, for amazing 30%. It's understandable why it probably happened. The fact that we were all locked up at home, that it was growing so to say Internet production and Internet demand also led to an increase in such a brutal crime. That was the first warning I had in the Croatian public. Perhaps we would have warned others, perhaps we would have a wider social revolt and encouraging police activity if we had received these data in time, not to discuss statistics here for 2018 and 2019 without knowing what is really happening now in this crisis in our society. Then how are we supposed to fix the same society? The other thing I want to point out is what's going on with the police around us. And I would recommend it to Mrs. McNally. The secretary of state who unwarrantedly calls my criticism unfounded, and they were directly concerned by what the report said, that he was walking here when he came out of the assembly to these metal containers, a house in which our police officers work without climate, so he could stand there and spend some time and see what it's like to work and guard HS and respected parliamentary representatives, so go and see. We cannot talk about the situation in the Croatian police without all of us standing up here today to ensure adequate conditions for this same police force. Well, the climate is one minimum if on a star like this they're going to keep us not only as a civilization but also as a security issue because forgive me, but the manganese, mirage officer certainly can't guarantee anyone's safety. Except that his health is at stake if you want it out of a self-centered position, and the health of all of us is at stake. So what I want to point out here is that I didn't get an answer to the key questions. The first question is, how many police officers have applied for a contractual break-up of a working relationship during that period? It's the only indicator of how good our police are. Can we keep the police officers or do they run away with their heads regardless of the system? It's amazing that the secretary of state didn't answer that question. The second question, of course, is the question of this coefficient which is the lowest, what is it exactly and when will it increase further because we all know that inadequate wages are within police officers? And the third question, the question of education dedicated here to a particular chapter, is that the profession requires the return of the Central Police School for the 3rd and 4th grade. When are we finally gonna get her back? In this report, I will conclude, as the Committee on Gender Equality is under way and the Committee on Gender Equality, the protection of young people and families is being discussed and the efforts of the police are being affirmed in this direction. I have now given you a key argument why this is not because you are not giving us information in time so that we can warn about negative social trends which should not be our task, but the police should alert the Croatian public, even in those most sensitive social groups when we talk about protecting minors from pornography. We are dealing here with what was in 2018 and 2019, and our life has turned upside down after two crises that have hit us, and earthquakes and covida. This report with our reality has nothing to do with it right now. To make the paradox bigger while the Croatian government is if so much in real time and talk about the 2020 report, HS, you left the country's key institution alone in 2018-2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52883	Now, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, the esteemed colleague Veljko Kajtazi will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52884	I would like to thank the esteemed president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Offered by media articles on the behaviour of the Zagreb PU intervention officers towards colleagues from the national minority who die from the Czech Roma after the police act, I decided today to look back at my co-operation with the MUP, but also the situation in our country when we talk about the Roma national minority. There were good and positive developments in the period to which the report was submitted. It was particularly good to co-operate with Minister Bozinovic and the Police Academy. Although I have to say I can't be completely satisfied because I think it could have been done more. I am primarily thinking about the situation in Međimurje, then on the employment of national minorities, taking into account the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, but also on the general approach of police to the community, as well as the sensitisation of police on national minorities in our society, which is certainly necessary given the latest media inscriptions. That's exactly what I was saying in the replica itself. I would remind you that according to the last 2011 census, there are as many as 328 738 members of national minorities living in our country, so 7.67%. And a certain balance, and positive discrimination, if you will, is very important to me in state bodies such as the police for greater confidence in the police and, of course, to create better assumptions for the work of the police themselves. I am sure that on the upcoming list we will show that there is a national minority in our society and more and it is an important fact that the police must take into account certainly in the work, but also in the reporting and planning of work. In the context of this report, unfortunately, I must look again at the already famous 2019 Međimurje protest against Roma, in which the latest reports of the Ombudsman, who came to the assembly, have said enough. I will quote the report, the particular concern certainly causes a protest held in Čakovec on 1 June 2019 as a protest for a normal life but directed against Roma who are all but people with the exception of individuals who have managed to socialize and integrate. This is precisely the success of individuals who are the taste of all the hardships and difficulties faced by Roma who are truly individual and mostly personal success and achievement when despite the prevailing prejudices and discrimination of Roma origin despite or poverty, despite the success of joining normal life flows of other inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, successful education, employment and achieving at least the average quality of life in living conditions and infrastructure connections. Namely, although announced as a peaceful protest without speech, it contained a step-up of individuals who were called upon to hate the Roma, some protesters pointed out inappropriate transparencys with fascist features or wore pro-Tastas black shirts. It should certainly be said that the sense of security in the County of Međimurje due to the frequent theft and role of the police is important, but also as the report states that individuals, persons with a name and last name, who should be sanctioned in due time and time for their illegal actions while their membership to the Roma national minority must cease to stand out as the cause and reason of the attack and the calling of the entire Roma community. And lastly, in the context of the protests, I must say that I sought his ban in due time by warning that the doctors calling for a protest were insufferable because they said that even among the Roma normal. Unfortunately, as we know now, it is not.../incomprehensible that such a protest is being held and I must say that there has been no real cooperation between the Roma community and the representatives of local self-government units that have been better by then. Security within the segregated Roma settlements is unfortunately hardly spoken of at all. There are many left to themselves between the majority community and the police who are not trusted and various violent individuals who are exploiting the Roma community themselves, and in this context it does not seem enough to prevent problems within the community itself. I warned of this before the problem was spilled beyond the borders of Roma settlements, but the reaction and interest as it was today was not too much. It should not be forgotten that in 2019 in the Roma settlement in Pribislavac, a delegation of the Assembly Committee on Human Rights was attacked without any reason, which visited several Roma settlements to help the community or to make a report and to warn of problems. It is a good example of the real situation when control of violence takes over several violent individuals. Such settlements are still few, and I expect steps not only from police who are mostly timely interventions but also from justice that is not effective enough and which certainly does not do enough to carry out the proceedings quickly enough and to protect witnesses who tend to refuse to testify because of fear. I must say that within Roma settlements, especially in the last few years, we have a significant problem among young people with synthetic drugs, alcohol abuse and domestic violence is a continuing problem. And interest and extortion is also something I've been talking about for years. The report we are discussing today, which concerns a period of 2 years, none of this is mentioned, and minorities mention in one paragraph in several lines in the context of the project I have a choice through which Roma associations were involved. I wish the report more stressed that in the past few years there has been a significant increase in the interest of the Police Academy, but also of the Roma community for Roma involvement in police ranks. I'm glad we worked together and amended a rule that allowed the Police Academy to run for a potential starter with three years of high school education. Because of this, and also a series of meetings at the academy and with the Roma community today, we already have several young police officers and police officers from the Roma national minority, and I am very pleased that we are working on it this year. That must be a good way to go. However, it should be said that despite the best efforts of the leading staff, these members of the national minorities are experiencing various inconveniences by colleagues, provocations, and even insults, which best shows that this is happening to older colleagues, and what we have been able to read in the media these days. I cannot stress enough how important it is to speak publicly about this, to recognize the problem, that within the order of the authority to act preventively on such phenomena zero tolerance is introduced for such behaviour and that any such complaint is considered at the highest level within the system itself. In the context of this, I expect clear messages and steps, and I hope that future reports will speak more clearly about this problem because this document certainly does not highlight it, nor is it a clear mechanism of prevention and sanctioning for such cases unless this is mentioned in the report at all. At the beginning of the current and late last year, allegations of humanitarian aid robberies by members of the Roma national minority who proved false, and this way I would like to thank the police for their promotional response, and even on social networks, pointed out that such interventions or applications were not in fact. I am glad that I can do this again today and again point out that despite their own modest living conditions in the context of the Sisak-Moslavina County earthquake, residents of Roma settlements have helped everyone, and have self-initiatedly collected and sent assistance from Međimurska, Sisak-Moslavina, Koprivnica-Kryzeva County and the City of Zagreb. False news, especially those on social networks, is an important aspect of police prevention in the future, as well as just sanctioning hate speech on the Internet as a public space, and I welcome this way all police efforts in this regard. I would like to conclude that I am mostly satisfied with the work of the police in a broader sense, and I must say that thanks to the work of the police and security in our country, especially in the capital, at a high level if we compare ourselves to similar cities in Western Europe [[Intruder: Thank you]] I hope it stays that way, and we'll do more parallel [[Agreement: Thank you, fellow Kajtazi]] to include minorities in the system, and to connect the community in general and the police, and... [[/Agreement: Comrade Kajtazi, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52885	Comrade Katazi, thank you very much! When I warn you, it would be at least okay to say here's a little bit more than to continue as if I'm not telling you anything. Now, on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52886	I thank the Honorable President HS. There's some incorrect data here that doesn't reflect the real situation, so I have to react here in an argument. Often or constantly by some MPs, the thesis that police do not have adequate conditions. The conditions have been proven to be more adequate than they were 5 years ago. It shall also provide information to each representative or representative of the MUP within the prescribed time limit. It is also important to highlight, and related to previously presented thesis that strategic and planned approach has been introduced in the MUP since 2017 to address the problems encountered, especially in the supply of equipment, in the purchase of winter underwear and shoes, these problems are also solved by the conclusion of indicative multi-annual contracts, and by quality planning of financial resources. Therefore, incorrect thesis on the lack of police equipment or on inadequate technical equipment. As regards police equipment, investments in police equipment amounting to €147.5 million were made during 2018, 2019 and the first half of 2020. And as for equipment for public order and peace, especially the intervention or special police, we can say that investments have been made in equipment worth 27.2 million kuna, etc. The crimes in which children are victims have also been presented with inaccuracies. I believe you will agree with me how rarely a social phenomenon causes such a sense of discomfort and disgust as this type of crime. The MUP has achieved a particularly successful cooperation with all defence offices in our country regarding the prevention of these criminal offences, and the attorneys also participate as lecturers at the Police Academy. In the area of criminal legal protection of children and families of the MUP, so if we want the current data, last year and the competent state attorney's office has reported a total of 7895 crimes, which is an increase compared to 2019. However, incorrectly presented data since this increase in criminal offences is qualified as a physical injury is 43.8%. To conclude why this is the case, and the causes and reasons of negative trends, scientific research should be carried out in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. And as far as the MAP is concerned, a Red Button campaign was launched in 2013 and 2,500 applications have been recorded so far. Therefore, the information provided here is partial, not complete. As far as the 2012 Police Academy is concerned, the previous SDP government abolished the 3rd and 4th grade of Central Police School. The ministry and the resolution minister recognized the problem and the need for full secondary education, so I believe that in due course it will be returned to what it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52887	Stay, stay with the secretary of state, still behind the pay phone because a colleague named Glavasevic called for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52888	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State. One year and a half there between 2014 and 2016 I was a protected person, I was protected by the guys from the intervention police and I listen to you say that you have secured technical conditions so you probably don't have an answer to what I'm going to ask you now, but, let me take a look when you have a chance. These guys didn't have any really basic stuff at the time, like a gym or a space to practice martial arts and sports, they didn't get journals in situations where they protected a person 24 hours a day, they weren't even provided with technical conditions, like vehicles or anything like that. So my question would actually be whether you have the information, for example. specifically for the intervention police, if any of these things are secured, and if you don't, then I'd ask you to just look at what's going on and if there's anything you can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52889	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52890	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Representative Glavasevic. I have information about the gym, so recently a new equipped gym, co-financed by the United States Embassy, was opened at the Police Academy. As regards technical equipment, new guns and equipment were purchased in accordance with the agreements signed by the Ministry of Interior with Croatian domestic producers. And I don't know what else your question was about cars, it's a problem that still exists. So, the MUP is planning to get new police vehicles, that's what we're planning, that's the only thing that hasn't actually been realized so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52891	Thank you. Let's move on to the next debate. I thank the secretary of state. It is a club of HDZ representatives and respected counterpart Mario Kapulica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52892	The Honorable President of HS, the Honored State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, even though we speak in an air-conditioned room of HS, I will still fulfil the duties of the parliamentary representative and discuss the points of the agenda that we have put at today's session with our own free will. We have a report on police work for 2018 and 2019.The report that offers us a sufficient range of data, valuable statistics and indicators to obtain a total and objective picture of the functioning of this high professional system with which Croatia can be proud and whose perception and mode of operation, unfortunately in part of the Croatian public is not yet correct. So then some opinion that the police, and we have seen in many cases and the judiciary act on political orders and that they are only a service of the executive authority, leads to that even in situations where we have a procedure in a city-owned municipal enterprise, people think that this procedure has been initiated by a new mayor even though the investigation was launched more than a year ago even though the mayor as the holder of the executive authority has nothing or should have anything to do with investigations of such a type. And it's one of the tasks of us who know it's not like that, to help everyone, and it helps us with these police reports to get the right picture of how and the quality of our police system works. And on an even basis, this system can be dealt with and compared with any police force in EU Member States with whom it is working evenly together with many of its solutions, such as new IDs, Covid passports, etc., but also in solving the most complicated cases of serious crime, if you look at the contribution to the most significant criminal research that you have with the police report, especially those of international character in which the Croatian police are the bearer of these activities, then you will see that this is the case. But speaking of quality and speed, I must remind myself that, according to the 2015 and 2016 Report, we discussed in March 2018 and that we are now discussing 2018 and '19. And it would be good, regardless of the circumstances, to get a report for last year as soon as possible, because all these praises lose valuable data over time to currents just like our debate about them. But we have something to discuss, regardless of because we are all interested in the best material position of our officers and police officers, the better equipment, the education of police forces, and the better the state of security in our country. I think that over the past few years we have shown that many of the situations in this matter have been successfully solved and that we will not hear today, as we listened to three and four years ago at similar debates, how our officers are so poorly equipped that they are at the border, that they can be replaced by refugees at the border. Of course, in the context of the recent desire, the recent current report on police work, we are particularly interested in data relating to the period of this crown of crisis that will show us to what extent and how it has affected all these indicators that police are following, from juvenile delinquency, peer violence, domestic violence, alcohol abuse and drugs, the committing of serious crimes, etc. The police are a machine that works day and night, never goes on vacations, doesn't get together holidays, doesn't stop for repairs, doesn't stop for summer break, in situations where other activities stop, they increase activity, earthquakes, fires, floods, any sudden situations for the police mean exactly the opposite of what it means for most ordinary people, when others leave and when they get away for safety reasons, they're increased present and it's simple for them, that's the nature of their work. Permanent operational duty, intervention, assistance, insurance supervision, presence at risk places, crisis activities, co-operation with various state bodies, analysis, prediction, prevention, and ultimately the suppression of any form of punitive behaviour as well as the maintenance of favourable public order and peace and general security of all Croatian citizens are essential political work, police work and I think that the Croatian police are doing it well and it is visible from the data we received in this report. This is visible not only from the report we can see for ourselves through daily press releases if we take a closer look at them, which is only a fraction of what the police do daily, and there is a lot of it. Only today's newspaper could we see that yesterday the police were on the lookouts when in Zagreb Krapina Street a car crashed into a bus station, in Ilica in a street place, in Osijek due to an accident on the bypass, we could read that a investigation was completed on Trešnjevci where the men of glass bottle hit a man and alienated him 16,500 kuna, that in Istria police had acted against a criminal group that broke into ATMs, in Kaštelac arrested two men suspected of the production and trafficking of drugs, that the Split police were speaking all about today, or today's news seized drugs and hand grenades, in Virovitski-Podravska County arrested a Belgian citizen who smuggled people, on Vis reported to a person for trafficking, holding in inappropriate conditions and forcing to work, in the Delnice to start an unsched area, and were the arrests in the area of unspension, which were due to the arrest of the money. We saw that yesterday the police were looking for a person who had disappeared in Drava, that in the Zagreb Police Administration they had increased surveillance of vehicles and drivers, that in Zagreb a man who collected and shared further child pornography was arrested, that a charge was filed against the person who was arrested for the murder of an out-of- wedlock partner, until she was seen for the apparent politically motivated vandalism of the monument of the first Croatian president, and yesterday was a day off. Many MPs will be involved in this debate, some will comment on police work as a whole, some of its particular parts of which have a greater interest, 10 chapters from a total of 44 points, sub-points really provide enough opportunities for this debate, and data that point to progress and favourable trends in many areas. You've all seen this report, I'm just going to give an example that I'm particularly interested in because we often say that police are the most important people in Croatia, so I've watched as we've been standing in Croatia for the past few years with the humiliation and insult of police officers. 2016 2025 cases, 2018 1700, 2019. 1600 and that's good, and there's a situation that's getting better and it points to good trends. I also think that this is an opportunity to remind ourselves that in early 2016, the MUP was faced with an unprecedented migrant crisis. Based on this experience, in view of the changed migrant policy, the ministry has, as one of its greatest tasks in time, recognised the need for increased police forces to operate with the use of modern technical equipment and means to successfully protect Croatian borders by respecting human rights and in accordance with all the EU's main political principles. And this is a fact that they could not reduce the political attempts and the playbooks that appear from time to time, like that of several Italian Euros, aimed at discrediting Croatia's readiness to enter Schengen, which unfortunately did not go without the support of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia. Positive security indicators confirming the strengthening of citizens' confidence in institutions, police, and the importance of what they do in determining Croatia as a safe tourist destination have not lost power despite.../incomprehensible/... attempts to raise panic, advocate military and wire at Croatian borders. On the contrary, this trust and this security have been increased in the meantime and have become one of our most important comparative advantages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52893	Thank you. Let's move on, now she'll speak to a respected colleague, Katarina Nemet, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52894	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, and today discussing reports relating to 2018 and 2019, and given what happened in the meantime and changed the question of how much of this data we are discussing today are current and how much can they contribute to an objective view of the state of security in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore necessary for the Government to present a report on the work of police for 2020 as soon as possible in order to be able to discuss it on the basis of current data. However, when we talk about these reports, I note that they do not fully address a very important topic that has been under way for several years and even before 2018 and 2019, which but cannot be more detailed with the public. It is about the reorganisation of the MUP, or the entire police system. I hope that today we will hear more from the government representatives about how we can constructively discuss the future of the police system in Croatia, not just analyse statistics from 2 or 3 years ago. So far, we have had the opportunity to hear about this reorganisation only on the hood, and what we heard was not unfortunately encouraging at least when we talk about the Istria area where the suspension of police stations in Bujam and Buzet was announced. I therefore ask the government's representatives to also take note in today's debate on this issue so that the citizens of Istria, as well as many tourists coming to Istria, have information on what the Istrian County police system will look like in the future. I remind you that Buzet and Buje are located in a specific border area and that their two police stations cover the entire Croatian state border in the Istrian county. I would also like to remind here that, despite the strong involvement of police in this area in recent years, illegal and illegal migrant routes are present, so the reduction in such circumstances of police presence on the ground is neither logical nor justified. Istria is Croatia's most developed tourist region and one of the most important components for tourism development is the security of a particular destination. I therefore call on everyone involved in any way in the process of reorganising the MUP system to take care of it because paper suffers and it is the easiest thing in an office to design rationalisations and savings by removing police stations, but the situation in the field is something else and such moves will bring more damage than benefits in the long run. I believe that the reconstruction and reorganisation can be carried out in a number of other ways that will contribute to the desired rationalisation but that will not violate the public service standards and the safety of citizens so far because the quality of police stations and the presence of police officers is one of the reasons why the security situation in the cities of Buja and Buzet is very favourable despite the specificity of the border area. I will use this return to warn n another very current problem, which I have referred as a representative issue and in writing to the address of the MUP, and I expect a written answer on this side. It is a problem with the difficulty of crossing the border on which the population of the border areas of one part of Istria County, especially day-to-day migrants, people who go to work in Slovenia or Italy. Due to current epidemiological restrictions and increasingly intense tourist seasons, these people spend a lot of time on travel and waiting at the currently available border crossings. We know that there is a possible additional border crossing in the second part of Croatia, in the area towards Brežice and Krško, and I wonder whether the crossover of the population can be facilitated in the same way and in the part of the state border in the Istrian county, in its northern and northwestern parts. It could possibly be a temporary seasonal character, active only in the summer when traffic at the border has increased. In any case, I think it is a matter of over-needed resolution which will make daily cross-border migrations much easier for the population of Istria. As I mention the upcoming tourist season, we know that it will again be specific and challenging for all tourist workers, caterers and all those involved in our country's tourist offer but I will remind you that one of the motives of the arrival of tourists in our country and the comparative advantage of Croatia as a tourist destination, the feeling of security that guests or tourists have in our country. A particularly important role is played by MIP employees, our police officers and police officers who are therefore facing a work, challenging and demanding summer. I want them to get through it as calmly as possible and I want them all to have successful and efficient work. And to the very end, when we talk about police work throughout the Republic of Croatia, it is clear that police are facing a number of challenges and that this job is not easy to do, so it is necessary to invest further in the education of police officers and equipment they have in order to carry out their tasks even more effectively. Management of the migrant crisis and the ability to prevent cyber attacks on citizens and entrepreneurs must be the focus of the police in years ahead. It is necessary to further encourage all victims of criminal acts, first of all family violence, to report crimes committed as difficult and traumatic as possible. I repeat, I expect a quick debate on the 2020 report so that we can all be together with events, not that we are dealing with indicators for far and practically forgotten 2018 and 2019 today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52895	Thank you, too. We'll move on to the Green-Left Block Club debate now and honorary colleague Urša Raukar-Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52896	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. So, before us is a report on police work for 2018 and 2019. Let me first say that the report by the Police Council is an important democratic instrument and supervision of police work in Croatia. It is those bodies that have legitimate and legal repressive powers in their work, so they have the power to use force, that must be under stronger and more quality democratic supervision. It is therefore important that we discuss the work of the police in the Parliament, but at the same time I must repeat what has been said today, how we are discussing police work for 2018 and 2019, so from 1.5 to 2.5 years ago. The Green-Left bloc club believes it's extremely undemocratic. Obsolete reports, these are a bigger problem precisely because of the role of the Parliament's supervision of police work. That is why I call on you colleagues and colleagues to really introduce discipline in the Croatian Parliament and to discuss reports that are current and not to allow such negligence and delay. But let's go back to the reports themselves. We in the green-left club see how the reports are content, that there is a significant set of statistics, which we welcome, of course. However, we are aware that the statistics and images that are being put before us can be shown in a way that goes in favour of police work while negative trends can be statistically said, blurted, let's say, sprayed, and therefore I want to talk about us in some vague, insecure, or insecure parts of the report. So, we welcome that police stress the fight against corruption as one of their priorities. However, it concerns the fact that only 33 arrived on the police anti-corruption phone in 2018 and only 43 calls for citizens in 2019. In a country where corruption is also recognised as early society cancer. This tells us that this activity is either inadequately known to citizens or that there is still not enough trust in the work of the police in the fight against corruption. The Green-Left bloc gives full support to the police in the fight against corruption, primarily in a way that does not interfere with your work or that we have a political impact on your work. In this sense, you have our full support to continue operations that will end corruption, crime and kidnapping of public goods in the City of Zagreb. Of course, not only in the City of Zagreb, but throughout Croatia. We welcome the fact that police are making special efforts to shed light on the most serious forms of crime such as murder, attempted murder, rape or serious physical injury. The resolution of these crimes is much higher, and we hope that you have the means and capacity to resolve these acts 100%. We also welcome the fact that in the report you provide hate crime-related statistics, however, there is little information about the motive for hate and the success of the resolution of these crimes. Also, the number of these crimes for us is amazingly small 25 in 2018 and 33 in 2019 because given the frequency of incidents motivated by hatred of some identity basis, we fear that the majority of these forms of violence are still unfortunately treated as a crime rather than a crime. Furthermore, we hold that more resources should be directed at preventing cybercrimes, including timely detection of radical neo-Nazi initiatives. We expect the police to strengthen their capacities precisely in the segment of the prevention of cyber fraud, cyber attacks, cyber robberies and of course the spread of hate by Internet space. In this regard, we call on the police to tell us as a assembly that we can improve the laws to make the police more effective especially in the segment of strengthening international co-operation in this area. Although under constant political pressure, we see police continue to make efforts to solve war crimes that we also welcome. We agree with the police's thesis that, with the passage of time, it's harder to resolve only an act, but since the crime of war crime does not go on with these investigations. But what confuses us is that the report mentions only resolved cases related to investigations by enemy units, and there is no mention of solving war crimes cases committed on the Croatian side. And we're asking a simple question why is that? And so we come up with the most worrying element of this report, which is the lack of self-criticism and recognition of wrong decisions. One who is incapable of being self-critical of his work, and this report shows that the police cannot improve their work. So, at the very least, it would have dared to say in a scandalous way that the report in the section on the control of illegal migration did not in any single word refer to a number of domestic and international criticisms by police of violations of human rights at external borders. The Green-Left bloc club, of course, advocates the entry of the Republic of Croatia into Schengen and we welcome that the police in the meantime have met the technical conditions for entering Schengen, but it is totally unacceptable that according to the number of quality documented cases of violence, the MUP pushes its head into the sand. And here I purposely say to the MUP, not the police because we are convinced that it is a political decision to use violence at borders and that a decision that can cost us the delay in the entry of the Republic of Croatia into Schengen is a decision that has caused us exceptional damage, the reputation of our police in the domestic and international community, a decision that ultimately did not get any results because people are returning regardless of the violence they have suffered. We will repeat loud and clear, the Croatian border can be kept from illegal migration without fighting and robbing people. That's what the police whistlers say, that's what the people of the system who are thrown on the sidelines because politics doesn't allow them to set up defenses, borders in a way that people don't fight. We express our support for all those police officers who refused to participate in this way in protecting the Croatian border, we know that there are you and thank you for that. Since there is not a word in this report about the topic that was central to the quality of police work, we as the Green-Left bloc Club cannot conclude otherwise than that politics has interfered in the work of the police and in creating this report. What's more, we don't see any information in the report on the conduct of internal controls, on the plan of curbing the so-called. dirty cops, we don't know how many complaints the citizens made in those two years to work and how they were handled and what the results of these actions were. So, without critical consideration of your work, without admitting errors, the system cannot make the necessary steps to improve the quality of its work. And despite the fact that there are extremely high-quality segments of police work in 2018 and 2019, precisely because of the inability of the system to face its own mistakes, politicising police in the segment of preventing illegal migration, as well as destroying the reputation of police and the Republic of Croatia because of border management, the Green-Left Block Club cannot support this Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52897	Thank you, too. We're going to debate number 7 of the SDP counseling club, a respected colleague, Niksha Vukas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52898	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on police work for 2018 and 2019. And when we read the Report this Report if we are going to read it in quality, it must send us some messages, and the first message from the State Secretary that you sent us from the Executive Authority is that in 2021 we are discussing the Report 2018, 2019, but that we are now talking about something that happened three years ago is at all the issue of the relevance of today's debate. But that wasn't enough for you, either, but then you united both 2018 and 2019 as in Article 4. The law on police clearly says you can't do it and can't do it. The Law on Police found the following clear as a day, until 31 March, the chief director of the interior police provided a written report on police work for the previous year. The Minister delivers it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivers a report on police work to the Croatian Parliament by 1 June at the latest, not to mention that you sent the report in 2018, so you withdrew it. So we were supposed to talk today about 2020, not 2018. However, when we look at the Report, I even went through some data, so I competed with 2020 because I'm stupid enough to talk about Report 2018, 2019 and I don't look back at 2020. What hit me particularly in this report is in a way not good, because the report on police work shows us the state of our society, and I didn't notice anyone talking about drug crime today. They talked more or less about police equipment. We also got an explanation from you that the police have everything to do with my quality, but I will look back at drug crime because we are all witnessing that in recent years the data has been released in the public that in the Republic of Croatia, drug use has grown exceptionally. And the latest analysis of the May 2021 waste water analysis suggests a very negative and extremely worrying trend. The data from May 2020 refer only to Zagreb, but they are very indicative because it is safe that in smaller environments it is easier and to get in touch and easier to get drugs than in a big city. But I will give you some information about the City of Zagreb in the period from 2015 to 2020. So 510 milligrams of cocaine per thousand inhabitants are consumed daily, where the City of Zagreb ranks the 8th city in Europe, and to compete in 2011 was 49 grams, 2020. 510 and what are the problems that we have to work on, and there is just not enough work for the police and the repressive system, but for the prevention of young people and in general adolescents and teenagers in order to do in some way everything that the state has to do to ensure that these numbers are not as devastating as they are today. In addition, when we look at the information on the consumption of marijuana, we have seen that Zagreb is the second city per day consumption per thousand inhabitants, that only Amsterdam is ahead of it and I think that these are the numbers that have to warn us in some way, alarm that we are both preventively and repressively doing everything we have to do to make these numbers fall, not to grow. We're talking about equipment today, all these things and the secretary of state says the police have everything. If you have everything then please make sure that these numbers are in decline, not in continuous growth. What I would refer to is economic crime and corruption, and I will look back on only some of the crimes in Croatia. In 2018, 19 crimes of peace and 26 bribery were detected. Compared to the previous year, it is 80% less criminal acts of bribery and 73% less criminal bribery. In 2019, police discovered 14 crimes of bribery and 25 bribery crimes at the level of the previous year. If we look at this data, we could conclude that the situation in Croatia is at the level of the best-ordered democracies with a high level of civic consciousness and a caring attitude towards the use of resources especially public budget money, which is when we look at today's state of affairs in Croatia from media reports and in general what is happening we can see that everything is just not so. However, the report itself states that during the ongoing criminal research, there was an increased trend in the corruption behaviour of responsible persons in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Croatia and the highest performers of functions in state authorities, units of local and regional and regional self-government. Which means that in particular the biggest problem in economic crime and corruption is in that part of which is available with the budget money of the Republic of Croatia or with the money of the units of local or regional self-government. During 2018 515 corruption crimes have been reported, of which 470 or 91.3% are crimes of abuse of position and powers committed by the official person. Compared to 2017 in 2018, the following indent shall be added: corruption crimes have been reported less than 32%. Again one illogicality means when we see everything that happens in the abuse of position as if we are some Swiss, not Croatia. What is also important is to address the criminal legal protection of youth and family. During 2018 5188 criminal offences have been found and reported in the Republic of Croatia for the protection of children and families, which is 1.6% lower than in 2017. In 2019, 6,800 crimes of criminal law were discovered and reported, which is 32% higher than 2018. In relation to crimes against sexual freedom and crimes against sexual abuse and child exploitation, a 41.3% increase was seen compared to 2018. This information is also worrying, but on the board I received information from the secretary of state that the awareness of the citizens has changed, and that today people are aware that such a criminal offence should be reported, rather than transgressed. And what I'm going to look back at at the end is road safety. I am not going to read statistics here now, but in some way to warn about what happened in the last time period related to the Dubrovnik incident and this weekend in Zagreb Avenue, and I think that in this segment the police must get full support for all of us and materially and morally that in some way traffic safety on the roads is one of the priorities because it is evident that traffic accidents are increasing, and unfortunately mortality is in a large percentage of these serious traffic accidents. What I'm going to say in the end is that it's not good that we're not discussing the 2020 report today. It's '18 that we're discussing. and '19. And the SDP Club can't support this report for that reason because the first thing you've broken is the Police Act, and then you're still united in '18. and 19. together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52899	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52900	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. This fact that the government has filed a report with the expiry of the prescribed deadline for both the resolute minister and the government as a whole is a grave disgrace. And the very fact that HS has agreed to discuss such a report turns this body, turns HS into a national mockery. The law on police and police as such should ensure respect for the legal order. In your work you should show professionalism, integrity and guarantee us all the legality and responsibility. And this way I apologize to all the employees of the internal affairs, to all honest officers who are doing very, very hard work, my criticism does not apply to them, my criticism has been addressed to the Secretary-General, to the government as a whole and to the president of HS who allowed this report to be discussed today. Because all of these values are legal order, professionality, integrity, legality, responsibility, responsibility, no one can install into the system if these qualities themselves and these qualities do not exist. You don't have those qualities ruling. And I don't agree here with ma'am. Raukar who spoke on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club, in principle, yes. But you said this was a non-democratic practice. Oh, that's too kind of a word. This is not a non-democratic practice, so we should now call on the government for a new report to stick to order. No, no, no. This is proof that we are no longer a legal state, because on the one hand we have power, we have a power to force and that force can force citizens to comply with regulations and rules, and even those rules whose constitutionality is questionable, such as many measures during the covid crisis, but on the other hand they themselves do not adhere to any rules, no responsibilities, no obligations, or even those fundamentals that any report is filed within the prescribed deadline. And so I come to the conclusion that our biggest problem is not the chips that have created corrupt practice, no, no, the problem of the Croatian state and Croatian politics are air-conditioned, air-conditioned who sit in the ruling majority, which allow this practice. We go so lightly over everything the government does by violating the rules of the state it runs. And we, in fact, are somehow being blackmailed or imprisoned under the grips of the ruling majority because the debate on this report cannot be opposed, and in fact, we have given every citizen the right to say that this is how we are going to discuss it, and it is easy to go over the fact that the government violates regulations more related to its own armchairs than to the role and task that we should have as parliamentary representatives. Let me quote you article 81. A constitution that says the Croatian Parliament is responsible among other things for overseeing the government's work. So I'm asking a question that's even the point of discussing this report that was filed outside the deadline, to see if the government is following the laws and regulations, does it respect the legal order? We're going through the first elemental thing that proves that the government violates these own regulations. And now that I've said it all a few times in a row that through looking for a break, which through the replicas is something about the metrics itself. In short, three main things why I'm voting against this report. Well, first of all, a report like this should have content that would give us information and a signal that needed to be changed in order to make it better. Such data are completely missing in this report. The second one concerns one part of the report also mentioned by counterpart Vukas of the SDP Club, which concerns corruption in companies. In view of the fact that no precise deadlines and dates have been set in this Report when certain actions have been carried out, I doubt that this Report, which has been formally submitted for 2018 and 2019, has actually given rise to something that has happened in the past year. And the third thing and the biggest grudge concerns the same problems my colleague from the Green-Left block touched. This is the fact that everything the Ombudsman pointed to in our reports that we have long, long, long kept under the rug, which indicates that numerous international organisations as well as civil society associations suggest that on Croatian borders, push back is implemented, that migrants are treated in a inhumane way, and that our police are breaking the rules clearly under the authority's orders, and that the same authority denies the rights of the Public Ombudsman to investigate these circumstances in detail. When I talk about what our system is and what needs to be changed, I will briefly mention something that is actually data that dates right before the beginning of this report, therefore, refers to 2017. At the time, we had about 20,000 police officers in the system with an additional 4000 and 800 civilian employees of the MUP. In 2018, that number fell somewhat to 19 thousand. The problem, however, is that the number of officers has increased since 91st and beyond. In 91, we had five police departments. We've got over 20 today. In the Ministry itself, we had employees of 50 people, and today with the Police Department, which was founded as a separate body, we have about 3 and a half thousand people. So there was a growing administration and not an operational segment that leaned into the offices and it creates a certain surplus and disproportionateity. This disproportionate administrative and operational staff is disrupting the entire... The system and that is what we should address in further rationalisation of the administration. [[You don't understand.]] It is obvious that this is also about the need for a reform that this government will not implement as it has not implemented in any other key segment. Also, people who are directed into the system testify that negative personnel selection is in force, which is mostly politically motivated. The management staff is completely replaced by the change in political furniture in power, and the competitions are mere throwing dust into the eyes, while everything is going behind the screens under some sort of arrangement and cultoirs. Of course, it is not a problem that has arisen with Minister Bozinovic, but it is not even finished, but has only been further stepped up, according to the sentinels. As far as this corruption report is concerned, I'm going to quote the same passage, the same part you quoted. It says in the report: "Criminalist" but please pay attention, "criminal research has shown a trend in the corruption behaviour of responsible persons in the state-owned companies and the highest performers of functions in the authorities of the state and units of local and regional self-government in which the demand for and receipt of significant monetary amounts from business operators and citizens on behalf of land re-purposes, benefits in the implementation of a public tender, giving priority information, acquisition of rights and similar procedures is established." I do not know from the media about any situation of a similar type which took place in 2018, 2019, but I do know about the case of Janaf from 2020. So when we read this passport, I really can't link it to anything other than the situation we witnessed not in 2018 and 2019, which this report also testifies to, but to the past. So the question is, in this report, is there a question that we're being duped into information that doesn't really belong in this year? It is also said that many more crimes have been discovered and that financial investigations and money laundering are going well, that it is working well with USKOK, with the Tax Administration, with the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. and I wonder, can this really be so, since the USKOK, or the State's Attorney's Office, has repeatedly submitted one and the same reports from 2014 to today on 4 main courts in Split, Zagreb, Osijek and Rijeka, we have not hired a single financial investigator to investigate these activities? Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52901	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have nothing to worry about, all criticism despite your report will be adopted. But here's what I'm trying to say at first: I really appreciate the work of the Croatian police. I know the difficult conditions in which they work. In my former job, and even in this present very often I meet them and what I'm about to say does not apply to them but refers to this late report. We analyzed it in the Homeland Movement and really for 2018 and 2019, you'll agree, it was so long ago that I don't remember having a heart attack that year either. So, it can be said that it is a single templated report that has been burdened with comparisons with past-time data, and graphic images of the interrelationships of these data and this way of writing the report have been used to create the impression that the police are doing their job well and quality in terms of the organization. The analysis of the items relating to the prevention of criminal behaviour shows that the emphasis is given on the implementation of a series of operational actions with a code name aimed at education and preventive action. It is evident that you include a large number of state-level officials in the operational action, but there are no exact indicators in the report showing the effects of the activities undertaken. So, as usual, we don't follow the outcomes. The fact is that there are a large number of police officers involved in the operational actions with higher and high professional training and therefore receive salaries, but if their effect justifies such engagement from this report cannot be read. It is therefore unknown whether working within operational actions is regular or additional engagement of police officers, but in both cases we have a negative context. If police officers are occasionally engaged as lecturers, they are inevitably suffering their regular assignments, if they engage only as lecturers, then it is again a matter of partial use of the expertise of police officers. One part of the report discusses the work of the special police and even states that it is the most important segment in the preservation of the security of the state, and then explains which jobs are trained, from abductions, hostage situations to the discovery of explosive substances and the like, but does not indicate anywhere which actions they were involved in, which concern the above mentioned matters. The answer is that there were probably no such actions, but the job of the special police was mostly reduced to catching illegal migrants along the border, which is certainly their basic job not and they are too expensive to the state to deal with. Same job within two to three years. They are exclusively engaged and units of the police intervention unit, so eventually they do nothing but do nothing else, although their basic task should have been to protect order and security in settlements and cities where they are not at all and the citizens have actually forgotten what they look like. After all, the chief police director boasts in front of the cameras that border police officers, so border police, are doing their job well and there are quite enough of them, which is, of course, notorally false because the border police are performing special and intervention police and I know it from personal contact. The situation in the Croatian police best illustrates the information that speaks of the lack of police officers and their abandonment of the service. In all major police stations there are shortages of people, and all those who are and work there are overloaded, which is why they suffer the quality of the work done because they are working in order to get all the items they are in charge of. All of this is the result of poor leadership, which is chosen according to the likeness, not the ability. Competitions are farces, except there are no photos as usual, because you already know who will be placed in a certain workplace, and at least you can see the expertise and quality. There is a known case in one of our county near where criminal police are sitting in the leading places of a graduate university, and then they command graduate criminals and expert specialists in crime. Such a targeted and selective personal policy reduces professionality and responsibility, I think we can all agree on that. Furthermore, there remains a vague personal policy towards which it is in 2018. The MUP sent over the police administrations of lists of people to be persuaded, persuaded to retire so that after they succeeded, the same people would invite them to join the reserve police on the pretext of missing people. For example, in the report or through the report, there is no mention of the murder of social worker at the Social Care Centre in Djakov Blaženka in 2019, as well as the heavy wounding of employees and the institution of Mr Ivan Pavić, who later died of injury. Police failure in this case has led to disciplinary proceedings against four police officers, and the police station chief is away from the service. Professional surveillance has found that police have not responded to reports from the welfare centre. It was found that already on May 17, 2019, police had received notice of changes in the behaviour of the later killer, and information that he had obtained firearms. For example, the counterfeiting of Croatian passports and other ID documents and driver's licenses. It is also not mentioned, and this has all been done together for the needs of criminal groups in the environment of the Republic of Croatia, it is also not an event which, according to the criteria of the applicant, should be represented in the content of this report. According to USKOK's 5 police officers, including a PU spokesman, Karlovakia participated in making counterfeiting Croatian documents for the purposes of criminal groups, the price was between EUR 7,500 and 15,000 per document. So I think this is what we think these phenomena are closely related to the negative selection that I was talking about, and those contents that you lack in the report are, say, a description of the security situation of the content that threatens the security of citizens, property and territory. Or, for example, criminal, criminal and disciplinary responsibility in the work and conduct of police officers or the number of procedures against police for abuse of office and violation of official duty, or, say, the number of criminal acts involving police officials. So this is why the DP Representatives Club appreciates the work of the Croatian police and its employees cannot give a passing assessment and accept this really, truly late report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52903	The following are individual debates. The first reported representative of Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52904	Ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago, the famous football player, coach and football manager Franz Beckenbauer was caught driving too fast. When a cop recognized him as a big fan, he got all tangled up and let him go without any punishment. However, it became public and a police officer was fired. It is clear to everyone that, with all the tolerance for human sinful tolerance in a repressive apparatus that exists to protect and enforce the law of breaking the law, there must be no law. We know what is the standard of German citizenship, and which is Croatian. For the bad standard of our citizens, it's clear what the reasons are. Unapplication of the law and inequality before the law. It is precisely this abuse that occurs not only with police failures, but also in police work. Here's a fresh example. One of the main actors in the Veteran affair, Krs Padjene, was running from the Croatian judiciary and was in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When the BiH court decided to hand him over to the Croatian state, however, he simply appeared before the Croatian police in Zagreb. It's completely unclear that the man for whom the so-called so-called. A red international warrant crosses the border without being arrested. This is evidence of a violation of the law because that fugitive must have had an assistant in the police force. Has it been established who helped him, and has this perpetrator been brought to justice? Or is that a warrant from the top of the government? We know this fugitive has negotiated the biggest loans no less than with Minister Maric himself. Although he was running from the Croatian judiciary, he was not detained in an investigative prison, but was released in silence. Mr. Bozinovic, I wrote to you about this shameful event, but you didn't even respond. The question is, how do you answer to Croatian citizens if you do not respond to the parliamentary representative you answer to under the Constitution? You, as a man in the JNA regime, should know what hierarchy means. The question to which your report does not answer, and I know from personal contact, is: what are the material conditions of the work of Croatian police officers? What's their uniform like? How are their shoes? They sneeze and fry in the sun. For five or six thousand kunas, they expose their lives. During last year's earthquake, Zrinjevac police buildings literally collapsed. The police should be adequately paid, but also depolitized. The results of the work of the Croatian police on general security are very good. Of course, these are not only the merits of the Croatian police, but we as a people can say decent people, so according to EUROSTAT, we see a high level of general security that Croatia has. But why aren't those results in the economic crime sector and your PNUSKOK? What are these people doing anyway? What do they do? How is it possible for such drastic cases as the case of Janaf in which the director has 10 properties? So the police must act as the law requires them to collect evidence of criminal activities by groups and individuals. If Milanovic was going to that club in Slovenia, then did the police check that area? How come they didn't see the money counter? Is it possible for the police to see crime, but they have to keep quiet about it? We all know where corruption is. These are public procurements by both state institutions and state-owned companies. The result of the police in detecting corruption has been defeated. I've been told by some people in the system that the police for corruption, but the top of the police force, means you and the director of the police are preventing crime. Mr. Bozinović, you once experienced a change in authority when you were on the wrong side. That was 1990. Be aware that corruption in Croatia has exceeded the level of tolerance and think about the time of billing that will come very soon. Then it will be determined who prevented the legal action of the police and hid criminal cases in drawers and closets. Of course I'm against this report because it doesn't show the real state of police.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52905	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52906	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before I start my debate just from this place one more time, I'd like to say hello to the Intervention Police team who protected me and protected me a few years ago. I thank them once again for their professionalism and I hope that, in the meantime, these money we've heard about has been invested in the police that some of it has been used to provide them with better conditions. At the beginning of this debate, counterpart Oreskovic said that the Ministry of Interior, or Minister Bozinovic, violated Article 4. The law on police is too late to submit to the Croatian Assembly a timely report on police work. So the law is broken and no one's got anything. When anyone breaks the law in Croatia, institutions should react without delay. When the MP or the police or the minister violates the law, the reaction should be even more hasty and stronger, because the police must be under public and institutions than other parts of the system because of their powers to use force. What we've been looking at for the past few years is that the police don't have the strength to act when they're breaking the law themselves. This is also evident from these reports, because they do not speak in any word about complaints about police work, they do not talk about how internal control was done, how many complaints were rejected, how many were adopted, how many disciplinary proceedings against police officers and so on. Recently, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia also found that the police had violated the law and the constitution in the non-approval of the asylum of the family to the death of the Madonna girls, the environment and whose death and responsibility for the loss were not yet enlightened and we are actually awaiting the Justice of the European Court of Human Rights. In the separate opinions of individual judges of the Constitutional Court in the second case concerning the death of a young woman, Medina, we read about the incredible failures in the investigation of this death. And precisely on the subject of human rights violations at the borders of the Republic of Croatia, it has been shown how much better it is to say that the MUP is not up to its task. I am fully aware that the job done by the Croatian police at the EU's external borders is an extremely demanding and difficult job. I am also aware that the EU is ready to turn a blind eye to human rights violations at its borders for the reason that the entire Union was terrified of fear, populism and paranoia that mobilized extreme right-wing political actors on these migrations, and at one point these people tried to shake the foundations of the EU. As my colleague Bencic says, we are not being admitted to Schengen by the EU despite what is happening at the borders, but precisely because we are doing the job. Croatian police officers are valued for the basic salary of 4,000 kuna to do illegal work for those who receive 20,000 euros in salary in the European Commission. This is the situation our government has agreed to, and this is exactly how it certainly does not implement its own initiative. The end of the quote. In this geopolitical global game, the government has allowed what is inadmissible in democratically regulated countries to make it easy for police to break the laws and enjoy the full protection of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Although today it may seem fair and a good question is the days when this ease of breaking the law under quotes will be rejected by all of us on the head and when we will feel it on our own skin. So let's not lie, let's be people. And I'm asking you directly here, you said you didn't know why the Government of the Republic of Croatia didn't publish the report of the Council of Europe's torture committee, and I'm asking you here in front of our entire public, did you read it and if you did, could you look us all in the eye and say that police do not violate human rights at the EU's external borders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52907	Following is the individual debate of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52908	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll agree with those who used to say that maybe now we can discuss 2018, 2019 is not exactly something that can lead us high considering we're taking '20. which is a pandemic year, which has challenged both the police and all the services that have functioned. I'm going to use these few minutes of my own on two problems to say a few words, and here's my only chance of actually saying something about it. I don't think it's the secretary of state who's going to answer my questions, but it's certainly good for the Croatian public to hear something about it. One problem facing him, especially the space I come from, is Slavonia, Baranja and Srem. When you take that space geographically, then you will see that it has limits in every sense, right, we have a border with both Serbia and BiH and Hungary. A lot of young people because of the situation in Slavonia accept being a Croatian police officer or a Croatian police officer and that's good, that's, that's nice. But the road takes them far from Slavonia, and then back to that same Slavonia lasts 3/4, 5, perhaps years. This is neither demographic nor otherwise good, and there are a lot of these demands of young police officers and police officers to return to their Slavonia, Baranja, I dare say that there are women, that they create their families there and that in the end this Slavonia might look demographically different. The minister announced on several occasions that the problem and the problem would be approached in the way they should and that these people would return to their home counties and JLS. Of course it's absolutely 100% impossible to do if we take the Adriatic, which requires a lot, a lot of police, especially at the time of the tourist season and everything that awaits us, but at least here in some way to help these young people, and in this way it will help our end, of course. And the other thing I'm going to spend these other two minutes on is one thing that happened in 2014. In fact, Valpovo as a city that has existed for 1100 years. was in 2014 Lost the police station. The police station is I think one of the features of every city center. But with a number of political decisions, important political decisions are the Valpo police from their own building, imagine now this, there is, so in the '70s, a building of the MUP was built by our SUP in Valpovo to move to Belisce. Geographically, Valpovo and Belisce are connected to practically cities, there is no border. However, from 2014 onwards, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United In that regard, of course, I don't want to say that the conditions of the police officers in Beliss are significantly reduced, that they are not good, but I believe Valpo's unjustly lost the police station. That way, it's lost, of course, part of that town story that every city has, and the police are certainly one of those symbols. So here's the Secretary of State this way I'd like to say that here's the problem of the City of Valpoov at the Ministry of the Interior. I come from the Ladimirs, of course, who are the suburban settlement of the City of Valpova, and it's important to make it impossible for people in some of the things they're used to. It's not the same as being pulled out of one place in ours, in our city's space to Belisce, and that was all settled in Valpovo. I don't think it's a good idea for any political option to change something that shouldn't change at all. But unfortunately, here with the political decision-making team, it's come to the conclusion that the police are leaving Valpoov and that by today, they're not coming back, so I'm going to ask the secretary of state to pass this on to the minister. We, too, would certainly feel the security they had until then and finally that the town of Valovo is one of the city's features is certainly a police station, the station is also getting that we can end up working on the well-being of all citizens and citizens of the City of Valpov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52909	Sit down individual debate of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52910	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The report on police work for 2018 and 2019, I will not personally view myself as an opposition colleague, because I find it very valuable to look back over the year on our police work. Because I think it's one of the most important systems of our society, and I think every country has it because without that system, the question is that we would be dealing with our relationship, whether it's power or mind. I think that's when we'd solve more or less everything in force. But it is the police who are the pillar of the security of every society, as well as in the Republic of Croatia and would not speak of them in the manner some of our colleagues say, because I consider them extremely valuable and daily in contact with them if you are the leader or local self-government or you have certain problems as a citizen you can certainly come up with a solution that bothers you. They are here, they care about us and I think what the Government of the Republic of Croatia does through the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Administration system is at this point what we can do most. Can we do more? It'll probably show time ahead of us, and I think it'll prove again that we want to take care of these cops, because I say without them daily it's hard for anything to pass in any environment. I come from an island that, for example, in the winter months, has a little more than nine inhabitants, and now that we get to the 7th and 8th months, there's going to be about 30, 40 grand on the island itself, and of course it's not easy to keep that safety on so many people if we have the fact that a small number of police officers in certain police stations are what needs to torture us. Even though statistics say otherwise, we're one of the countries that has the most police officers on 100,000 inhabitants. There should be a clear breakdown of what is really a cop as a cop, which are services within all of that, which are police officers at the borders that we know are somewhere around 6 and a half thousand and whether they're all adding up to that number because then they're not the same situation. Because by that, let's say we have 40 officers on the island at the station, but we don't have that many. There may be 15 of them who are in charge of making sure everything goes well there. Are there days without such events? I don't think so. Can we expect in Zagreb that there are no criminal acts, that there are no various events or that there are no calls to 192 or 112 there is something going on? Of course it's all to be done by the police. And when we see the number of employees reporting over 400 grand, 415 is a terrible job during the day. So 365 days, seven days a week, no standing. I mean, that system just has to generate what we all want and what we all swear. We're talking about being a state of security. We invite others to come and talk to us and you're safe here. And now our basic question is, do we feel safe in our country? I can certainly say yes to myself. Surely because whatever I do in my life and see you act in accordance with both laws and rules, you have no problem. Of course, can we say that this can be done by any man or the total number of our people living in the country? Of course there's no such thing as in other countries. Let's look at our police behavior in a number of events, especially mass events, protests, etc. Do we experience such images as in other countries when dealing with the issue, such as protests and ways in which they are dealt with? Is this what our police are doing a lot different? I think that and that we in these people have a lot of faith and trust. There have been attempts in recent years to bring especially the borderline of the police into a state test i.e. to even try to blacken them. We've heard a debate about human rights now. There were also political options that tried to do this in some way even politicize until they realized that after they were brought in that you couldn't do it on the Croatian border and thus sent a picture from our country to Europe saying that you did everything by the rules and you didn't and you were aware that you didn't. So that story is certainly not one-sided, but that the police system generates the security that we are talking about and that we are warning those who now want to come to us very much works, plus that we want to cooperate with other police countries that help us especially in the summer months that this system works. And if there's a problem, they'll always be there because that system never rests, as people themselves do. That's what we have to say, not just in our country, but in every country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52911	We have one replica, two, excuse me, the first respected representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52912	I didn't mean to pick up, but I really have to react to this type of discourse that the opposition is rebelling against the police, and that you have a positive opinion about the police doing their job well. So neither about the delay in the report nor the debate that warned of excessive violence against immigrants at the border, no one, as far as I've heard, has accused the police and police officers in the police. So on the contrary, the police themselves are sending in NGOs reports of excessive use of violence at border crossings. And what's really important to say is that here the officers themselves are being brought into a very uncomfortable position of vague demands, completely unnecessary demands involving excessive violence and all of this is documented and all of this the minister has in mind, but does not respond and does not give answers, as the secretary of state here did not want to give answers to any very specific questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52913	Thank you very much. My colleague Peović, we have a minister of the same in the second term, and I think he's doing his job perfectly, correctly, and that, regardless of the individual possible problems, one event can certainly not throw a total picture of the whole system that counts here as much as I know about 20 thousand police officers, so when we take away what else we have in that, how someone said that the offices have flooded, etc., that we are too administrative state, etc., here we are talking about some 18,000 police officers, so again we have to take out those 6500 that we have to have, given that we want to achieve what is ahead of us, and this is the entry into Schengen and preservation of that European border, certainly that in thousands of possible illegal crossings across Croatian borders we can reach certain situations. But on a case-by-case basis, he's trying to throw away a picture of the entire system, so that's what we're up against, and I think if something happened that the ministry knows that better than we do politicians here. Are we going to use it like some political parties wanted to take advantage of it? It's another thing. I don't think that went very well with them back then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52914	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52915	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Boris, you have well noted from your personal experience the problem of tourist environments and the lack of police officers, especially in tourist months when the number of inhabitants of individual tourist resorts is increasing rapidly. We must definitely mention this, and we have mentioned a little, and the season has already begun, and this is a long-term project of the MUP, which is "Safe tourist season" is precisely what you mentioned working with foreign police officers and our friendly countries, where police officers from all EU countries are coming to help our officers in the tourist environments, but here we have seen both Korea and the world that are definitely helping our police officers, and normally and their guests, especially in places where they are being held, and this is one of the projects where our MUP stands out as one specific and interesting at EU level, but one of the projects that we definitely need to push as an example and as good co-operation with foreign countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52916	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52917	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bacic. I have certain experiences, we are at sea, now this tourist season is on the move, and surely that these 100-year-olds or maybe more during the year of police officers coming from another country can certainly help, especially in communication with citizens from the same countries to facilitate the work of our police officers. What I wanted to point out here is that maybe here's the police department, or I don't know who can do it with these environments because I know we have a real problem with seasonal moments when we're short of cops, because we have a population of people. those temporary tourists are growing multiple. It has an environment where it's 10 times more than the domicile population that lives there, especially on islands, and there are those that are several times, maybe 2-3 times, these are large numbers. This covered with forces that we only have inside police stations is not easy given the wide range of what they cover in the security system, from the maritime part, to the traffic etc.. Here's my wish if it could be a little more, especially in the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52918	Next is an individual debate, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52919	Good afternoon, everyone. Much is said in the report about migrants, but there is no record of what NGOs warn about, and that is excessive violence at the border. I asked Minister Bozinovic to take note of the documents I sent him and collected by the Austrian NGO SOS Balkanroute, which has been organising humanitarian aid to refugees in BiH for more than a year, especially in Bihac, Velika Kladuma and Tuzla. Documents that represent just another set of evidence of excessive violence at the border include photographs and video documentation of injuries and violence against immigrants as well as a letter from Croatian police officers warning of excessive unnecessary violence, in an inhumane way dealing with refugees including women and children. They also warn of orders from authorities that refugees return without exception without documents, that money is being taken from them, that their cell phones are breaking down and that they are being returned to BiH by force. As does the secretary of state, the minister rejects the possibility of excessive violence. But neither the minister nor the secretary of state answered the question as to how it is possible that if the Croatian police concentrate on deterring in accordance with Article. 13. The Schengen Code of Borders that many emigrants that police meet deeply in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or those even in Slovenia and Italy and Austria are being returned to BiH? I still asked the question, if all the applications were checked by the Croatian police where you can get an insight into the results of these replies are not available. At the same time, the MUP states that applications normally do not contain enough data, I quote "for research" as well as that they are migrants, quote "ready to falsely accuse the police". But I asked the minister how can the DOJ know that the charges are false if there's not enough information to investigate you at the same time? It is also a question in the minister's response which he gave, which means I quote "to allow migrants access to the system of international protection if they need such protection". Who decides whether migrants need such protection and on what criteria? What exactly will it look like he says is an independent monitoring mechanism for the Croatian police's treatment of migrants? What about surveillance, where and when? There are no answers to that question as well as to a number of other questions. Therefore, Croatian policy towards refugees has become more brutal over the past few years. This is about some conflict between the opposition and the police that doesn't exist at all. So the opposition is just standing by the police and wants to point out that the police are doing a job that is not in line with what I believe many of them want to do and what they think they should have done. So on the contrary, there's no conflict here between the opposition and the police. There is a conflict here between those who are legislators, between the ministers, among those who should give the police clear orders. Why do you do it this way? So, such a policy has indeed been reminded lately of the policy of ante murales cristianatis, we who stand here in the defense of this fortress of Europe and for the benefit of others to understand each other because migrants only want to pass through our country. The question arises, and why do we do it for both whose benefit and how do we do it? Instead of such barbaric policies, which are already being warned by really all NGOs, it may be better to concentrate and ask the question of the reasons and causes of the refugee crisis. It was largely created by countries where refugees are now going to create conditions for huge economic and socioeconomic inequalities, and by irrational production, which has always been the first place even in front of meeting the fundamental human needs and protection of human rights. I remind you that due to its geopolitical and economic interests, the West has supported the war in Syria, and we do not mention the chaos and misery caused by the American occupations of Afghanistan that Croatia and Iraq are involved in through NATO. The unequal development which is the basis for this kind of immigration is merely the continuation of colonialist policies of countries that have robbed the third world for years, thus allowing their development, the promotion of wars, the circulation of capital and the use of cheap labour from poor countries, we must indeed address as a new form of neo-colonial economic robbery. If we put things this way, then refugees are much closer to the people in Croatia and share more with them than the current policy is willing to admit. The refugees didn't produce the global crisis, capital did. The solution is not to close borders, but to change economic policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52920	Time. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative of Hrvoje Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52921	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, here in your debate you have repeatedly mentioned the brutality and excessive application of the excessive force of the Croatian police, so of course we as parliamentary representatives others have been asking questions here and personally since I am also a personal friend with a lot of Croatian police officers who have been sent to their tours just to guard our state border, of course asked whether they are true. Of course, we have also witnessed media allegations about organized groups. We've seen multiple and armed counts. The answer is that the groups of migrants entering this area are armed, that they are also very dangerous sometimes and of course our officers should be kept safe and of course they should protect our border as well. I believe in the complete professionality of the Croatian police and the preservation of the state border.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52922	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52923	So... He has just referred to the minister a question with very extensive documentation and this video and photographic documentation, but also a letter of Croatian police officers in which they themselves actually complain of the instructions they receive and the way they must come into contact with migrants, which is actually more or less down to exactly, in fact already illegal push-ups, means push-backs across the green border in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[You don't understand.]] We're doing it to get into the Schengen. So it's some kind of political trade. But really in that situation, no cops, no migrants are on good terms. What would be much better to ask as a question of which is therefore international legislation, can we in some other way ask these relations? What's really scary is that there's no answer to very clear documented videos and photographic records and migrant statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52924	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52925	Dear MPs, I understand your position and the information you've received, you've interpreted how it should have been done. But when you're in the field and there's a person on the other side who you don't know what his intentions are, you have to be careful. Was there excessive force, I don't know. Was there any damage to the migrants, I don't know. You have photographs that showed something. However, as I understand it, all these instructions are directed to the minister. Is there an inquiry sent to the Director of Police? Is there any record that one of the cops ended up in sick? Because if you had some kind of need for force, it's not just that you stayed unharmed. On the other hand, there are some actions and reactions from people who have been attacked or have been involved in these activities. So I think everything can be determined if there was something real and if there really is some real data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52926	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52927	Well, thank you for that question. What concerns us right now is that the associations have sent questions and have not received answers. So, can I have it? They did not gain insight into the results of these checks that certainly existed that included certain actions, either disciplinary or whatever they had become completely unknown to both associations and the public. And intransparency also raises doubts about what is happening there. And what you say when you find a man eating at the border at night, doesn't know who's coming at the border, how he's going to react, it's really scary that we have women and children amongst those people who have suffered and violence, and that's really an act that I don't believe anyone in Croatia really welcomes and that's something we should brag about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52928	The next replica is Urša Raukar-Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52929	Dear MPs, let me just add your speech to the fact that, in addition to the SOS Balkanrouth organization, we have a female lawyer who, in her 2018 reports for 2019, talks about violations of the rights of refugees, also in her media performances, spoke of these problems, and also the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Demeaning Treatment or Penalty also stated in his report various, various violence against refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52930	Thank you for filling in. Yes, and these are arguments for what was said, but really when you get a response from the minister, which means that migrants are willing to falsely charge the police, and that they don't give an answer on why these charges are false if they say that such reports as they are, and even means the minister admits they have them, do not contain enough data necessary for criminal research, I think one is in conflict with another. If there's not enough data, then how can we conclude that these reports are false? In any case, I think it is no wonder that more and more of the very things in Croatia are starting to deal with this issue. Here's a report for '18, '19, we're late, but what might be, let's just say under quotes, it's good to deal with a question that's been a little shadowed by someone else since 2020-'21. The situations, but they're still there and things haven't worked out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52931	Time. The last replica of the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52932	So, respected MPs, listening to your debate, we essentially realize that the biggest problem of Croatian police is the neo-colonial attitude of Western European forces towards the areas of North Africa, the Middle East, and therefore all migrants are tumbling through our country now and the problem is that our police are returning them, and so is the problem of Antemuralis Christianitatis, is that the presidence of Christianity that I am essentially thinking through history all the way to today most Croats are proud of that name for Christendom. And now I don't see why it's our police in this report that we're discussing today, which is the problem with the Croatian police returning illegal migrants from our borders. As far as I can see, our police are the only things they do, protecting the borders of our country, protecting our people and protecting everything they've committed to do. However, illegal migrants who have not proved very credible in all their testimony that Croatian police are harassing them and everything else. They lied a lot, so I'm asking you how do you explain their unbelief to a proven number of lies they've told at the expense of our police so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52933	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52934	Yeah, so the charges and the lies that there's no evidence of. Let's stick to some facts. I am not saying that the police have the task of resolving the situation of Christendom's presidency and our self-proclaimed task that we have taken on our shoulders to protect the fortress of Europe, when the fortress of Europe says there are many connotations, and connotations are socioeconomic, therefore in terms and in the direction of asking the question for whom we keep the borders in this way. What's problematic is that there is a procedure for how immigrants should be treated, that there are reception centers, that there are multiple times that it is not, that it is broken and that we can actually talk here about illegal treatment of immigrants and that Europe of course does not respond and that in some way it suits it, and then asks us questions, even to their... organization of what you're actually doing with immigrants. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52935	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52936	The Honorable Chairman, ma'am. Secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, with no data from the report, just to look back at the report that was handed over to us with a three-year delay. Just a little reminder, I'm sorry there's no Mr. Boric, to remind you, unless the company submits a financial report to the 3rd year. In a row, you know where he's going? He's going bankrupt. So it automatically triggers bankruptcy. And we're supposed to be here now based on the 2018 data. to draw some conclusions. I think you agree that we can't make those conclusions, that based on these data, we can't affect a new legislation that would improve something, we can't affect those reports that you might have asked for, but today, if you're looking for them, I don't think you're going to get them. So 2018, 3. have passed, changed a lot of things, conditions changed. After all, look at the technological development that has accelerated I think it has a strong impact on the development of crime and everything is actually happening differently and going in another direction. Unfortunately, I have repeatedly appealed from this booth that these reports are being referred in time so that we do not simply satisfy the form. It's called satisfying the form today. I'm not saying that the reports are bad, that the data in those reports is incorrect, I'm not saying that it's not true in them, but get the report after 3 years it's not right. And besides, not only do we get a report like that after three years, but we get a report that's united, and it's even harder to discuss. So now I should be talking here every time for a pay phone, and that refers to the data from 2018 to 2019, and it's been all of 2020 behind us. I said at the beginning in the replica to Madam Secretary the meaning of the report we get here in the assembly is that based on these reports we make some conclusions, we do analyses, we make conclusions and we try to proactively act for the future that we have better laws, better legislation and that we allow people who work under these laws to work better and better. As far as police work is concerned, I personally don't want to discuss any information obtained by the police director and the minister at all. What is important to us in Croatia is that our children and we personally feel safe and I hope that everything that the minister has answered to both the media and individual representatives is true. We have no reason to doubt these reports, where they came from, photographs of all of this in those letters that are difficult to comment on, but we know ourselves when a man is in a great deal of trouble then he is willing to lie and say things, and they were probably also reported by those migrants who came to Croatia and later accused the police. I've said it before when you're on the one hand, there's a group of people traveling at night, you don't know what their intentions are, and if they don't follow your orders, you have to act in a way to protect yourself, protect your life, and ultimately, safety and our country and our families. Another problem I've seen and wanted to warn is problems related to police officers. In order to have a good company, we must have satisfied employees. Currently, police officers can't be satisfied because they don't get paid in the amount to be paid, they don't get paid the fees they should be paid, and I asked the secretary if it worked out, but I got an answer that didn't exactly impress me. Well, we're surprised that's how everyone in the public service does it. Can we afford to treat the police like that? I asked that question in 2013, in 2014, Mr Linic, when he made the police enter the COP system of the Central Payments Account, they didn't want it, and he said if there was no salary in the COP, there was no pay at all, and then it was my question whether you wanted 28,000 people to strike on the street and that 28,000 people with short arms, that's not our goal. Our goal is to have a satisfied police force, satisfied police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52937	We have one replica. Honorable representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52938	Yeah, I just wanted to answer, you said if 2018, '19. We got a report that it's already done now so if I'm asking the minister I think these are paces to pass, etc., but the same situation is with refugees today, so there's not some, not some different problems in force. And I really think that if a series of committees were already formed that a parliamentary commission should be dedicated to this particular issue because I don't get the right answers to them. I will only remind you that the Austrian minister of justice reacted in this matter and also with NGOs tried to get information from our minister and warned that many refugees are minors, so many refugees are minors and that they really need to be protected in this situation children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52939	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52940	I agree with you, but we will probably agree together, and you and I, in order to form a commission, should have the will of both the majority and the minority, respectively, and the positions and the opposition. If that will does not exist, then we will not be able to form this commission and this commission will not work. We already had such examples here in the assembly, we wanted to establish a commission, but this commission was not established because so said Mr Plenkovic will not be established. Now whose position it will be not to establish this commission I really don't know, it might even be founded but the question is, is it possible now to get more information about some events that happened three years ago? If this commission had been formed in 2018 by half or in early 2019 on the basis of the data we received in 2018 in the report then it would have made sense and we could have acted on both officials and possibly on legislation. Today's question is, does that make sense?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52941	Next is an individual debate by the respected representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52942	Dear Vice-President, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, so I must say that I have long been in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security for some 10 years and I have been following this issue with special attention. It's never happened before that we're getting an annual report in two years. So first, when you get a report from the police, it's already full of all the data and I believe it's relevant data. In this situation when you get to 2018, 2019, suddenly in the meantime, we had a Covid crisis right after that, we had a situation with migrants where colleagues rightly warned about it, and now suddenly we get a report in 2018, 2019 in one report. I think that such things, first of all, are not explained in the report itself, which is why,.../incomprehensible/... explanations such as changing this or simply not keeping the water by law, the report is submitted once a year, and that report should be discussed and the exact time and why should be known. If we'd done it that way, then maybe we wouldn't be discussing migrants right now, but we'd be discussing something much more relevant today. They might be discussing the consequences of the Covid crisis in the context of that report. It may have been miraculous to get the results of a new Law on Road Safety that has dramatically raised penalties, and I do not see that it has brought some sort of result in the safety of traffic itself, as I warned when the law was passed. You might be discussing a case of domestic abuse of police officers that you can read about today in the media both yesterday and the day before. This is how we are forced to discuss which, which started in 2015, if I am not mistaken, the migrant crisis lasted intensively until 2016, 2017, then in the good part, it has been tempered by this migrant crisis, although I am convinced that the police should protect the state border and that everything that can be done within their competences to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but the fact is that this activity should not be mystified. So, all these reports are a smut about the situation at the border, vague then we get various films that come from different sides, and some foreign televisions are involved in this and all this is causing damage and I won't say that it harms the police, it does harm the Republic of Croatia as a tourist country at the end of the day. And these aren't good things, and if we were to treat it differently here, and I'm saying that the police are doing a good job here anyway, if we were to treat ourselves differently as politicians so with less mystification to say clearly that's where we took it, that's what the problem is, so we have the right to protect our territory. And another problem that bothers me, but it's not a feature of this report, it's a feature of all reports. So, we have a police director who basically wanted me to admit it or not a political person although he is elected in a public competition but is chosen by a practically interior minister by his discretionary law and he is, in some ways, a political person. It would be good if the Police Act changed the part where the minister reports to the director in principle, it is no longer clear who the report is reporting for, so it would be the most correct thing to do if the police director who wrote this report per year for 2 years to come here before the meeting, so explain to us why the annual report is in 2 years, and not for a year as it should be. This is how we get the situation that the director of the police is sitting somewhere in the dark of his office, and the minister is practically coming out of the light and that the people of the ministry are forced to defend such reports. That's what's not good and it needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52943	Following the final debate is the first SDP representative club on behalf of which a respected representative, Niksha Vukas, will present his final position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52944	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, and at the end of this debate, I must, however, look back at what I have been communicating and in my opening speech and the name of the club and the reasons why SDP will not support this report, and that is, above all, that we are discussing it for 2018 and 2019, and in addition, you have united and put together for 2018, 2019. A colleague, Pavić, mentioned well in many of these numbers, found it difficult for statistical indicators to manage and make one quality discussion for 2018, and let alone for 2019, and on the other hand, we find ourselves somewhat ridiculous to discuss in the largest legislative body of the Republic of Croatia the report 3 years ago, with the police, who must protect the law and the Law on Police Article 4 where it says clearly that we should have discussed the report for 2020 today. And when we see all of this together, the question arises, for which reason the Director of Police writes the report, then sends it to Minister Bozinović, then Minister Bozinović is probably hiding somewhere a little bit, and he sends you, and in some ways you don't know why, we're not all so stupid to say in your opening report that there have been more important topics, changes of some law than police work reports, and in some way you're giving us arguments that you haven't found time for three years to send a report to the Croatian Parliament, and you know that the report is a set of statistics that someone is putting into a rush to give us what the current state is and what the Croatian police are doing. There we talked more or less about the conditions to open a debate on the conditions in which police officers work, their human relations, their complaints in some way could be discussed for 4 days, but it's all hidden together. You came here to wash and try to explain to us in some way that it is normal and in accordance with the law that we are discussing today after 3 years of what was in 2018. What would be my conclusion and the message don't do it, for your own sake, for the sake of the citizens because simply no one believes you. Therefore, we must respect the laws, if citizens must comply with the laws then how the executive power does not comply with the laws and how the executive power respects the legislative authority if it violates the law in the Croatian Parliament in some way justifies that it is normal. This is not normal, and therefore I ask that the future report go according to the law and for this reason we will not support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52945	Final debate on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52946	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Representative Vukas, it is best for me to leave immediately with you because you are the last, so that I should be aware that there was no intention for me at all in the Croatian Parliament, and especially for the distinguished MPs and MPs to insult. I said myself that I hope that the 2020 report will arrive on time. I will try to unite all these remarks that have been made. I am a little saddened by the fact that some of these are actually unfounded on an objective concept, and most of the thematics that criticise the work of the border police or the management of the border control system are not based on actual facts but are extracted and subjective to political nature. The MUP responds to all requests from respected MPs and legislators within the legal time limit. The Croatian police are not running away from responsibility, and I am responsibly arguing this, and especially not on their own responsibility if they have it for certain cases. But we can't accept structures, we can only accept facts. I would not be talking here about the heavy accusations made on the work of the Croatian police, that the Croatian police are breaking the law, etc., but about the remarks of MPs and advocates for lack of self-critism, I think that is what Raukar said. Believe me, Representative Raukar, there is an extraordinary self-criticity of us towards ourselves and the system. We can note that the Croatian police in that context in which several MPs, you and a few others raised the issue of internal control, carried out internal controls almost daily, and we are also carrying out a full co-operation with all the defence offices and with the new staff attorney Tena Šimonović Einwalter, with the lawyer for gender equality Mrs Višnja Ljubicic, with Helena Pirnat Dragicevic and with the lawyer who is for persons with disabilities. We are serious about the objections to the work of police officers, and one part of these remarks comes through cooperation with the attorney offices that I have just stated. The police have absolutely no tolerance under any violation of the law, whether it's a violation or a criminal offence by police officers. Representative Pavić did not exactly paraphrasise my response to the public administration, related to the working-legal status of Croatian police. We are aware of the real situation and of course there is always room for improvements, especially when it comes to the man on the ground, so the Croatian police officer on the ground whether it is a special, intervention, border, basic officer or traffic policeman. It is indeed a matter of concern and will be visible through the reform of the police system that is planned. Also said are certain meals, so we cannot say that Croatian border police are beating and robbing people. These are very heavy structures. It has also been said that we are not a legal state and a variety of difficult words. What is important here pointed out, the Croatian police have made all the reports of NGOs and other organisations that we have received about the alleged use of the means of coercion towards migrants by police officers extremely serious, bearing in mind that these reports are sometimes subject to verifiable facts and often do not contain enough data needed for criminal research. It should also be taken into account that migrants because police officers have been deterred from entering the Republic of Croatia or have been subject to other prescribed procedures which have been returned to the countries from which they have entered our country illegally lately, they are often falsely accusing police officers of violence, and all with a reason to help them when they are re-entering Croatia and continuing their journey to the countries of destination because we are aware that for more than 95% of third-country nationals Croatia is indeed just a transit destination, not a final destination. Representatives of the Croatian police and the MUP have repeatedly called through the media on all those who have knowledge of the possible illegal conduct of police officers towards migrants and third-country nationals, especially against vulnerable groups, but also on the overall population of migrants, to provide such information to adequately check and determine the facts. And in the event of the failure of police officers, they severely sanctioned the same. The investigations carried out by the state's attorneys and this was a matter based on criminal charges are classified data, and this ministry really has no impact on them. What is important for the prominent in today's, past and daily proceedings have been reported indeed and numerous cases of false reporting, injury or unfortunate cases and occuring in the physical accounting of migrants, and I would really now if time allowed even some individual cases, and I believe that distinguished representatives and MPs are familiar with one of the most famous cases, and this is a false application of the disappearance of the girl Alse Gazi from 2018, when the ministry received a journalistic article saying that the Croatian police brutally separated Vadi Gazi from his 5-year-old daughter, Alice, both citizens of Syria. After his reception and accommodation at the asylum seekers' shelter, after he was allowed legal entry into the Republic of Croatia and extensive search measures for the girl who conducted the police had left immediately, perhaps roughly, but fled from the Republic of Croatia, and the checks have undoubtedly found that he was not accompanied by a minor girl in BiH and Montenegro during the arrest and application. A year later from Beirut, the girl was confirmed to be in Lebanon and never left Lebanon. I do not understand here respected MPs and MPs why they are persistently refusing to show the real situation on the Croatian border and the procedures to look at in real light, but migrants are already trying to show themselves as good boys and Croatian police as bed boys. There are numerous examples where what I'm saying is actually what I'm saying and it's a little absurd to justify the Croatian police if there's really no reason to justify it. Another significant case is a false accusation from a journalistic article called Migrante, while it is hot, which was published on the web site of an association on 21 September 2019, I note that this association here may not be individual, but this association is apostropheeded as credible. The article said that the Croatian police at the police station tortured 10 migrants, and then returned them to BiH. In the press article and on the web pages of the association, credible under quotes were published photos injured by the submersibles of a migrant. However, on 6 October 2019, police officers at the border crossing of Rupa in an attempt to illegally exit the Republic of Croatia actually found a migrant who had already had burns on both of their progenitors, which he received in a migrant clash between migrants from the two countries and in fact the Croatian police provided him with medical assistance. They can also give an example that on 10.12.2019 in Velika Obljaj near Gline, the Croatian police found 3 citizens of Algeria who illegally entered the Republic of Croatia. A man had severe wounds on his arm, migrants said after a police interrogation and after illegal entry into the Republic of Croatia past the official border crossing that they encountered a group of six Afghan citizens who beat them and took things away from them, and the men in the group cut their hands with a knife. A doctor was given assistance to migrants at a hospital in Sisak. On 17 July 2020 in the town of Donji Kosi in the area of Perusic, I will give another example and I think it is enough, the Croatian police found a citizen of Pakistan who illegally entered the Republic of Croatia. He had stab wounds from the knife in the area, and after a police interrogation, he said the wound was caused by another citizen of Afghanistan, sorry, this is a citizen of Pakistan, and was injured by an Afghan citizen from a group of migrants with whom they joined the Republic of Croatia, all because of a fight over drinking water. Migrant was treated at the hospital in Gospić. As you know, Croatia is the country with the longest land border and is obliged to monitor and protect it, and the most vulnerable part of Croatia's border is the land border with Serbia and BiH. You well know that migrations are a complex issue that needs to be seen from a number of different aspects. The position of the EU's latest on the protection of the external border, migration and asylum clearly stems from the new pact on migration and asylum presented by the EU last year, which introduces a stricter approach to migration management. It can be concluded that the EU plans to take a more stringent view of the uncontrolled arrival of migrants into the EU, of course, taking into account the full respect for fundamental human rights and the application of the principle of solidarity between Member States. Commonly responsible EU level should include strengthening EU relations with third countries and transit countries because, as you know, the internal and external dimension of migration is inextricably linked. All migrants, most of them coming to Croatia, come across Turkey's territory and the possible opening of a new EU migrant wave depends largely on EU and Turkish relations. On 14 June, this is particularly important to point out that our country has finalised the signing of an agreement establishing an independent monitoring mechanism, thus becoming the first member of the EU to establish an independent monitoring mechanism for the management of the external border in line with the proposal from the Pact on Migration and Asylum, and is now following a meeting with the Ombudsman on this subject. The activities under this mechanism will also be carried out by representatives of civil society, namely NGOs and international domestic and defence offices plus international institutions. Croatia has repeatedly pointed out that a long-term solution to the migrant issue is possible only if all countries in the immediate environment, so in the neighbourhood of advanced border, asylum and reception policies, and as we know it is not yet the case. As I believe you know the MUP or the Government from its political level has continued to work and actively participates in improving the important processes concerning co-operation with EU bodies and the topics of migrants. What is important is to say, and it is very fresh, several important points that are current and that follow at EU level. points that are current and which follow at EU level. The first follows the need to sign status agreements by Bosnia and Herzegovina and Northern Macedonia. Secondly, the European Commission intends to present an action plan to combat migrant smuggling at the end of this summer. Then soon the European Commission plans to establish an even better system of migrant registration to talk about the information system. There is also a near implementation of the latest information systems for the needs of law enforcement bodies and the increased need for migrant remission to their countries of origin. Like I said, the issue of migration is complex. I know the subject is a report for 2018 and 2019. But I wanted to present to the esteemed MPs and MPs the current situation. What is important is to point out in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina you know well that you have a situation with an increased number of illegal migrants, some of which are located along the direct border with Croatia. They're reception centers. It used to be Wolfie, and now it's Lipa. These migrants are literally trying to cross the Croatian border illegally every day and let's be aware that Croatian police are making a really enormous effort. Border cops themselves are exposed to various security threats and risks. I would like to stress that the management of migration by the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities of Croatia has indeed not been particularly prominent, because we believe that the management of the border and the EU's external border by the Croatian police is indeed high enough, so that we can address all the challenges we face. Last year, a 40% increase in attempted illegal border crossings by migrants was recorded. Unlike the migrant population that entered Croatia during the big migrant wave in 2015 and 2106, keep in mind respected MPs and advocates that the majority of these migrants are now talking about the current two years for which we submit the report and the current years, these are male minors from 18 to 35 travelling without family escorts. As you can see, the continuity of the pressure on the Croatian border should also be seen in the context of the current locations of reception centres for migrants in the context of neighbouring countries in the global European context and should also take care to respect all human rights and rights of protection of migrants. Our practice shows that only a small part of migrants want to stay in the Republic of Croatia, that's the fact that our country is transitory as I said. Many of them do not even want to give fingerprints in the Eurodax system, and even those granted international protection either through asylum or subsidiary protection after some time leave the shelter voluntarily before the process itself is completed. I believe you are aware of the fact that in Croatia of 20 counties only 2 counties do not border with neighbouring countries. And we know, however, that all border crossings other than illegal attempts and entry into Croatia are being traffic-regularly carried out. What is important is, in the end, pointed out, the Ministry of the Interior is under constant supervision and questioning of what European institutions do, which by international institutions and NGOs and be sure as I have already pointed out that anything disputed in this regard our country would really not get the green light for all mechanisms and a very demanding Schengen evaluation. Moreover, I would say that the Croatian police are particularly borderline, but every other kind of police force also requires commendation for working in extremely difficult circumstances where they are exposed daily to security risks. What is important is that we respect and respect national legislation, the general human rights documents as well as the European Commission's regulation, that is to say, all EU regulations which prescribe the fundamental rights and dignity of migrants, and provide them with the necessary protection and care as such. I mentioned the Dublin Agreement. What I wanted to point out in the end should also be mentioned by abuses that more than 90% of asylum seekers who, through certain media and through certain civil society organisations, represent themselves as persons in need and Croatia provides them with international protection according to our positive regulations, may actually sound difficult, but do not live and escape the desired destination country before the completion of this process. This actually means that it is about economic and other reasons for migrants, not about providing protection against persecution, which is an assumption of asylum or international protection, as we know in accordance with Croatian law. I still have to answer the question of public gathering. As you know, there were no police violations. We are talking about the right to a public gathering being protected by a number of international and legal documents and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the General Declaration on Human Rights, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, and Article 42. A constitution that recognises everyone's right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest in accordance with the law. However, the right to freedom of assembly, as you know, is subject to certain restrictions, so the Law on Public Assembly as one of the restrictions on the right to public gathering prescribes the existence of a serious and direct threat to the health of participants or other persons. Therefore, when balancing between those rights, the tendency is to achieve a balance between the use and protection of public gathering rights on the one hand and the protection of public health on the other hand. We will agree with the honourable MPs and MPs always have room to perfect the balance, also for self-critics. But there should be no room for unwarranted criticism from political interests. I thank you all for your constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52947	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative, and the pardoned violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52948	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 238, the State Secretary insults and demeans MPs and MPs in particular in that part of the exhibition in which it unreservedly declares any questioning of police relations with immigrants at the border incorrect and concludes that they are incorrect allegations. I don't think that's how we should treat this issue here, and then after that, it lists some cases that certainly can't be a cause for generalization. We're asking a question here if people are asking questions and if they say things are being questioned why don't you publish those questions and the results of these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52949	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. Replica's first respected representative, Niksha Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52950	Here's the secretary of state, here's why I'm going to replicate. In your debate, you pointed out that the report was delayed for three years because there were far more important amendments to the legal initiatives, which I think is very brave to say here that you knowingly violated the Law on Police Article 4 because something was more important. And when we look at this report then we see that it covered the crime of drugs, economic crime and corruption, the criminal and legal protection of families and youth, the safety of road traffic, so I would ask you, please explain to us what the proposals for amendments to the legal initiatives were more important than all these topics that you've violated the law and that you've been late with the report for three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52951	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52952	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Representative Vukas. You're paraphrasing my words again. I said at the beginning of the debate when my representative, I think Pavić raised the line that we know how to determine the order of the plenary session of the Parliament, and in that context I said this sentence that you have now paraphrased.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52953	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52954	As for the subject of migrants and police treatment, I would ask you not to twist or manipulate what the opposition said today in the House. We did not criticise the work of domestic workers and police, but the work of the government and the government and all those superiors that police officers on the ground must listen to. And you can indeed be ashamed of you and the resolute minister that you have even taken the right to take notice of your information and information system in order to verify whether those accusations that we can hear in both Croatia and internationally are established and not founded. The fact that the government allows itself to verify institutions like this, starting with the Croatian Parliament, makes it clear that it is you who are the government and the Government. Certainly not one that belongs to a democratically-organized political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52955	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52956	Dear MPs, I will answer for the public. Respected deputies Oreskovic, the Ministry of the Interior and the Croatian police do not insult any lawyer, nor the attorney's office. On the contrary, we believe that cooperation with them is extremely useful and extremely necessary and we respect all the legal regulations, and we also consider cooperation with civil society representatives extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52957	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52958	So someone has to tell you that you can't say that, you really can't say that because the fact that you refuse the right law-based right of insight into the information system is nothing but humiliation and demeaning of institutions, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure consists of saying such nebuloses, which represents a rude insult to me as advocates, my intelligence and my rights, and also of the entire Croatian Parliament, at least this half of them who thinks with their heads. It's a warning in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52959	And you know you can't talk like that yourself, so here you are. You've been warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52960	.../Intruder Oreskovic: All I know is that the Rules of Procedure became a mockery, so sometimes I have to get a warning to say what we didn't have a chance to say when we were supposed to discuss the reports of the attorney general./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52961	Why do you take it for granted? You refer to the law, you lecture here as others sin, and then you make five warnings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52962	.../Orešković: For balance./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52963	Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52964	I want to answer for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52965	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52966	I can't? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52967	Replicated representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52968	My dear secretary, first of all, let me apologize if I've paraphrased you wrong and I don't think so. I tried to find the video on the Internet, but I can't, at this point I couldn't find it. We have a lot of problems to deal with. What I'm really interested in is the way I treat tourists. In fact, you said yourself that we have a relationship with foreign police, that police officers from other states are coming to us. What interests me is that we don't have the right information so that we can do some analysis based on which country the number of police officers are going to be, in which city and how these units are being formed. And after whom reports are reported, with whom they work, and with whom they are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52969	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52970	As you know, respected representatives believe that at least you know that the Croatian police have signed agreements and in the context of a safe tourist season that lasts several years there is an international component, and that component includes the arrival of police officers from neighbouring countries. They're cops from Hungary, from Italy, from Germany. So from all neighbouring countries with which Croatian police have signed agreements. That's about as far as I know, I think it was 68 or 70 cops during the last tourist season. What is important to point out is that the safe tourist destination is what you saw in the media recently opened for this year and that within this project, these safe tourist destinations are actually Croatian police officers achieving this international component in a way that is supported by police officers from other countries who wear Croatian uniforms and who actually communicate in a non-Croatian language.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52971	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52972	Here I apologize to you in advance is not actually a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I asked you a question since I know that there are agreements with foreign states, with the police, I asked you on the basis of which criteria determines how many police officers from which country comes to Croatia, and how are they deployed in cities? If you know that because we're really interested. I don't care if they're gonna be in a city where the Czechs are mostly more German cops, and the Czechs won't be at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52973	Okay. Since you yourself said it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure we have a warning. Follow the replica. Honorable representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52974	Dear Secretary of State, you've invested a lot of energy in a written final speech on the majority of migrants, on false reports of violence. So if you had invested at least half of that energy in the reasoned evidence of violence committed against migrants, it would have been much better for all of us here, and we really can't accept this for the simple reason that the Home Office refuses to report that part of the problem at all. My question is also, if you claim that your internal control is doing well, that reports and various analyses are constantly being done, then the simple question is why there is no data on the conduct of internal controls, about the plan of suppressing so-called. Dirty cops. Why isn't there an 18th and 19th report that you're legally late for complaining about citizens with no information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52975	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52976	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Raukar Gamulin. The MUP does not refuse to report, it is not an accurate finding. I've invested as much energy as possible in this minute to give as many concrete examples as possible to demonstrate the actual state of affairs. Individual incidents are convinced they are sanctioned, but it is really harmful to generalise individual incidents, to raise to the level of general status at the Croatian border, and I agree with my colleague Vidovic, who made the finding here, I would say it is harmful for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52977	The next replica of the respected representative, Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52978	Well, here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to go back to the beginning and my opening question. First of all, thank you very much for being in the final, which is very spotless, yet it is shown that our police can be spotty and someone has helped you and otherwise has never been finished. But I'm going back to the beginning. Then I ask if that's the case, you keep telling us, are you my question first? Have you read the Report of the Council of Europe yourself, so on torture and inhumane and humiliating behavior and punishment. If so, how can he rule? You can't speak for the minister, you have to ask him then get out and let him show us the report and let us know which answer we sent to the board. If that's why the public doesn't have the right to see the report that we got from the board and what we responded to or there were no complaints that were better. So here, did you read the report?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52979	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52980	Dear Representative Boris, I have read the report and I have already told Bojan Glavasevic, the representative who put it before you. I'm always in favour of transparency of all documents and in accordance with positive legal regulations. I can't speak for someone, but I believe that where there is to be transparency in accordance with the law, that transparency should exist. I didn't invest how Representative Raukar said all the energy in writing, or help on the side, but I only listened very carefully to your remarks. And as you can see, I speak more to you as an opposition than to the ruling majority because the remarks of course come from your side. I fully respect every remark that has been made here, and I have prepared this final speech just taking into account the respect of these remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52981	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52982	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, so without intending to go to your role in the state government, but you're trying to explain to us here that the police will apply the laws, tra la la, that they will work the laws, etc. What I say again, I don't doubt it. But neither you nor I have the legitimacy for such a thing. You must not influence the work of the police operationally. So, operationally, and that's why I'd like the Director of Police to sit here and that he's reporting, and neither you on behalf of the Government, nor the Minister nor anyone else. And I think that's why we need to change that article of the Police Act, and you can work on it. So you're putting yourself in a position to be untrustworthy, to claim to us that we're going to look after that and that, and you don't have the authority to do that at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52983	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52984	Dear Representative Vidovic, you know as well as I do that I have not come out of my legal powers as secretary of state. So I didn't say anything beyond my authority. I only said what I have the authority to say, so I thank you for your objection, but I am well aware that I have stuck to my powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52985	Followed by a replica of the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52986	Dear MPs, during the eighteenth and nineteenths affected by this report, part of your employees worked intensively to prepare the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds. This is not part of this report, of course, but we are now witnessing the arrival of fire trucks for the needs of emergency services as well as communication equipment, as well as helicopter three, which will be signed by the end of the year. So let me finish in that tone and say that I worked, part of the people also worked on these valuable EU projects and withdrawing funds which was not the case when Minister Bozinovic took over the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52987	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52988	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of the coat of honor, Mr. Grba Bujevic. For fire trucks, the amount actually received is EUR 34 million for Tetra's communication equipment over EUR 9 million, and you have pointed out that in the process of obtaining helicopters and aircraft because police are also in accordance with the Civil Protection System Act, so according to the Civil Protection System Act, the components are both emergency assistance and firemen and HGSS, and all of which, in fact, representatives of civil society and local self-government units, and in this context, the police are also knowingly fulfilling their role.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-23-0.u52989	I thank the secretary of state. We've exhausted the debate with that. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we'll continue with the first point. – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. Have a nice day. Session interrupted at 14.09 p.m.
