ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57760	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. All the topics we could hear this morning I think they're important to the state. They're important, it's important how our country works, it's important how the state treats its citizens, they're important. But there is one topic that is most important because without it there is no state, without people there is no state and I think that we can be honest with ourselves and say that Croatia disappears. Let's be honest and look at your streets, look at your schools in your hometowns, look at your city. How many less people do you have enrolled, or children in the first grade? How many fewer kids do you see on the streets? How many fewer families of young people with children do you see in your streets? And that's your eye, you don't need to count it. And the DZS threw out this year's 2020 data, it's not dreary, it's tragic. At this point, you have -21,000 in favour of the dead. It is at least 25 to 30 elementary schools in Croatia less every year. So many schools are being shut down in Croatia every year. For the comparison, in 2010, it was half smaller, it was -10 000, now it's -20 000. How long does it take for all the alarms to go off in the country? What do you need to do? To begin with, no. 1, demographic revitalisation should be number 1 on the list of priorities of everyone in the country, not in 6th place. There should be a set of measures, not one measure to be mentioned. And these measures should be specific, meet the needs of the state, meet Croatia's needs, not be copy-paste from Brussels. And I don't mean anything wrong here. I don't think that there's someone who wrote this in Brussels, a subcontracted person, no, but wrote it on the basis of the needs of her country, and not even for demographic revitalisation, but was guided by the line of gender equality, the classification says. When I say that it should be the first place, yes, in the National Development Strategy, family and demographics is the sixth place. This stands out less than 2% of the state budget, even worse than that, now children's allowances are reduced by 350 million kuna per year. Issuing is 0.82% of the state budget for children's allowances. So is that real for the ground that burns under your feet? When we talk about a set of measures, I don't want to be ashamed of one measure that's been mentioned all along, and that's full pay during parental leave, is that a good measure? Yeah, she's good. So the Bridge proposed it three years ago. Headed into legal procedure. We're glad the government let it go after three years. We proposed it a year before the EU Commission. But that one measure won't do enough. They won't do anything unless there's a set of measures. If you don't give at least 120% of the budget base for those who have minimum salaries. If you don't give more full pay for those who have higher wages. If you do not give people who have three or more children, when they return after a year with a normal salary of 2300 kuna, if you do not allow their parents, or grandparents, to take that possibility of parental leave, it will not be better. If you don't give the possibility that children's extras are finally not paid by percentage through tax relief because it's not fair, it's not fair. In that case, people who have low wages don't get almost any child benefits, and those who have high wages get enormously much, where is justice? If you give what we propose a fixed cash amount, so for one child 600 kuna, for another child plus 800 kuna, for a third child plus 1,200 kuna, you will allow families to have a reason to stay in Croatia. And don't tell me the story that this has happened before in the Croatian past. It never happened before, the state didn't stimulate people, educate them and send them to other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57761	Comrade Petrov, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I welcome all of you and, as always, at the beginning of the plenary session in the week, we have a presentation of the views of the club representatives and independent representatives. The first one will be spoken today by a respected colleague, Ljubica Maksimchuk, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57887	Thank you very much, President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Today, like many in a row, some tend to find it easier, and some just an October day, but for many Posavia, this is largely one of the hardest days of the year. Today 29 years ago, a Bosnian ship fell and ended the battle for Bosnia's Posavina. The bloodiest period is for people on both sides of the Sava River. The fall of the Bosnian Ship has led to an exodus of the Croatian and Bosniak people from Bosnia and Herzegovina in front of the military's superior enemy JNA, Serb members of the territorial defence and Serbian paramilitary formations. The creepy day turned and destroyed the lives and dreams of thousands of people living in the area, living until the beginning of the war in the area of the 5 municipalities of Bosnian Posavina nearly 74 thousand Croats. In those heavy battles for the Savina, they were shelled daily, shaking and burning places on both sides of the Sava River. The plant was a place of danger to life, a place that was better to bypass in those days, a place where there was no sleep, which was from the fall of a grenade, which was from the sirens that marked the air or general danger. And today, 29 years later, pictures of endless columns of troubled, crying, and sad people filled with infidelity, misery, fear of going into the unknown, fear of leaving their homes, their grandfathers, the graves of their loved ones. They were leaving saving a living head with a few bags in their hand. Some have found their new home in Slavonski Brod, some in Zagreb, and others have moved around the world. There was no humanity in that months-long battle for Posavina, they failed, they denied until yesterday's friends and neighbors. All he felt was the smell of sorrow, death and burned earth. And today, even though much less than 10% of pre-war Croats have returned to their homes in Savino, mark this sad day. In the organization of the Veterans Association, the 101st Bosnian-Broad Brigade will light candles, serve Holy Mass in the Bosnian Posavina, and the team will light candles at the memorial of the dead Croatian defenders in Slavonski Brod. They're going to run down a river of 500 lanterns for all the dead and missing HVO and HV defenders as a sign that we haven't and that we won't forget them. Some of the great advocates of the Croatian people in BiH go out behind this speaker sometimes mentioning BiH Croats, when legal proposals can help them make life or return easier, they leave the assembly before the vote or vote against. BiH Croats are not seeking any privileges, nothing that does not belong to them under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. They don't just want the Croats to return declared and rebuild their homes, they rightly and truly want it. Therefore, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which despite the difficult year affected by the Covid crisis and 2 strong cuts continued to strongly encourage and strengthen the position of Croats through numerous projects and to ensure conditions for the sustainable survival of the Croatian people. I will end my position with the words of Pope Francis, you have no right to forget your history, not for revenge, but to be peacemakers so that you can love like them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57888	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Grmoi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57889	Well, Mr. President, he's hurt. 238. So it is clear that my colleague refers to my free speech Friday, I would invite her to react and protect Croatians from Odzak and Posavina where the local HDZ structures, the HDZ of BiH, favour the entrepreneurs of the M-San group instead of assigning agricultural land to our Croats to stay alive on their breasts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57890	You're getting a warning, pal. It's clear to everyone. My colleague Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57891	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, my colleague Grumoja, through my discussions and through my work for years I have been pushing for help to the Croats in BiH, I think your statements are unfounded, and every time they are legal proposals, you do not support them or leave the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57892	Comrade Maximchuk, I'm going to give you a heads-up because you've entered the controversy, or in a way you've replicated. Comrade Grmoy, what you're doing is inappropriate, so first you hurt the Rules of Procedure, now you're going to hurt him again and engage in a debate. I'm asking you to stop doing that. ... It's not, this, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The answer to the charge is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, there are other ways of responding. I warn you, I'll interrupt you immediately at the beginning if you go and I'll give you a third warning and you won't be able to speak today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57893	... It is an article of the [[Specially enabled.]] You're cheating on the public of your colleague. It's an injury, it's an injury... [[Employment: This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a delusion of clarity.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57894	/Intruder: You are getting a second warning./
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57895	... That's why you're afraid of it, so you're also out, that you've been working against a third entity, is that why you won't let me talk? You went out to WikiLeaks that you were working against a third entity and against [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]] Croatian rights in BiH [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]] No, no, they didn't fall in the water. [[Intruder: Well these accusations, so your accusations have fallen into the water long ago...]] The papers came out. .../ [[...and your colleague...]] The speakers speak at the same time, they don't understand. The documents came out, the documents came out, so don't let me talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57973	My friend, the rude, rude lies, come sit down so you don't get a third warning. You use deception and lies and don't do it. Let's move on, now it's my colleague Bartulic's turn on behalf of the Department of Homeland Movement Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u57974	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't expect this day to start so badly in the assembly. I'm going to say something about current topics and what we often point out that unfortunately in time it turns out that our elites are so-called. politically rather alienated from ordinary people as if a parallel world had been created in which they function well and do not actually have contact with the everyday life of other people. This is also seen in a recent statement by Minister Aladrovic, who said Croatia is actually a phenomenal country for life. In some ways, that's true, and here I can, by my own personal example, say that there are a number of reasons why I moved here from far away America, but I can certainly see in time that I stayed not because of the work or achievements of our politicians, but nevertheless, we have one pride without cover. I think it's good to remind again and repeat this, what I often say is that this famous stability that we have, which is often highlighted as some great result of government work actually stagnations. Now we see, in fact, through price increases and these inflations, that there is a new period of end-of-the-end actually of cheap capital, it is already announced that interest rates are going to rise, people who are in negatives or credits are going to feel it very soon. And it seems to me that we should always repeat that our progress is as small as we should look at others in the environment. So, if the average salary in Croatia grows slightly, it is not enough if in some countries close to Croatia the minimum wage is higher than our average, so a large number of people in Croatia, most people who work earn less than the average salary and because of high taxes for pension and health insurance, many employers actually pay minimum wage and then make up for the difference in other ways, we all know that. The state is very big and expensive and therefore our economy is also uncompetitive. And now we come to the issue of introducing the EUR, is this the right way to raise the standard of our people? It seems to me that in some way it serves as a substitute, so the introduction of a new currency is a substitute for structural reforms that are not implemented and that are frankly much harder to implement than it is to introduce a new currency. So, if the government were serious she would spend what is being delayed for years before she talks about replacing the kuna for the EUR to really make people more free to live and make money. So I will repeat, Croatia is not ready for this step, it is quite clear to all. The best indicator of the success or failure of a particular country is demographic, so whether the country attracts people who want to live and work here or people move out. In Croatia it's been pretty clear for years. So certain groups are well, those who are networked, who know in advance that they will get a job through competitions and so on, and the rest remain either to observe or leave Croatia and unfortunately do so. So, until that changes, we can't talk about some successes as much as the government wants to point at some things and sell a good pyr, which unfortunately is without cover and ladders in Europe confirm it. Therefore, the Homeland Movement will insist on freeing the Croatian potential, and that is the only way to do so if the policy moves away from the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58013	We're going to the 3rd debate, IDS Representatives' Club, dear colleague Katarina Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58014	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. In recent days, the Croatian healthcare system has been focused on the public for reasons of introducing covid certificates or mandatory testing for healthcare professionals and part of patients. But under the radar goes one other very important fact also related to the health system. It's a huge debt of the state to large-scale drug-supply hospitals. We remember, unfortunately, the crisis in October last year when hospitals were in front of the wall, faced with fear that wholesale drugs will no longer deliver drugs due to debts. It didn't last long, and we're looking at a similar scenario, the hospital's total debt reached 2 billion and 880 million kuna at the end of August, with over 2 billion kuna in debt. It is, in all likelihood, only a matter of time before we come back to the alarming situation to threaten the wholesalers by stopping drugs and putting hospitals, pharmacies, and above all patients into new problems. I'm asking a simple question. How is it possible that at the time of the global pandemic, the hospital is again afraid of losing its medication, that patients whose medical condition and lives depend on drugs must consider whether they will receive the prescribed treatment. It is shown by who knows which time, even a few months ago, only briefly, the fire was put out, so this chronic problem of Croatian health just hid under the carpet again, and the situation is nowhere near any permanent and systematic solution, though. I wonder what the alleged start of last week's work of the Health Ministry Working Group for the amendments to the Health Protection Act, which I say again is an alleged focus because we only learn about this from the media of the transfer of the founding rights of county hospitals, public health services and emergency medical services to the state, I will say for the third time, the alleged financial recovery of the system. I wonder if this really is the right way to solve this problem or just a new step in further centralization of this already over the head of the centralized state. But let's get back to the problem of debting hospitals to drugstores. We have a problem that's been going on for too long and finally, without delay, we need to deal with them. It is high time this government found a long-term and sustainable solution. A solution that will not be fire and temporary as it has been all the way up until now, which is why gentlemen dearly need reforms, both rapid and comprehensive. I appeal, therefore, to those responsible for the government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Beros, Minister Maric, above all Prime Minister Plenkovic, to do whatever it takes to finally solve this problem systematically and in the long term. And I will repeat once again the key, not to say the magic word for solving this as well as many other problems are essential and thorough reforms. Without them, let us be ready to continue to spin in circles and return to the same problems always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58025	5 discussion by SDSS representative club, respected counterpart Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58026	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, excuse me, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the first Monday of the 10th month in Croatia, is regularly marked as International Day of the Child, and the whole week is filled with activities intended for children and promotion of children's rights. In the same period, therefore, in the 5.10., we have marked the World Teachers' Day, which is why I will take advantage of the opportunity and say something about all of us, which is exactly the link between these two significant markings. It has been a month since the start of the school year, and the media space is still full of frightening data about the negative democratic trends that may be best, but also the most painful painting right through the prism of empty or half-empty student benches. In this teaching year there are 455,819 pupils in primary and secondary schools in the same school benches. This data itself does not speak very much to itself, but the following facts reflect it. Isn't it alarming that over 400 schools have fewer than 10 students, isn't it disastrous that we have 430 juniors less than last school year, isn't it a warning sign that today we have 53.390 students less in primary and secondary schools than eight years ago? Simplifiedly speaking, this means that we have a small town of students and a town of the size of Karlovac. The large decline over the past eight years has been recorded by both Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County, from which I come which the number of students in those eight years has decreased even by 6,408 and 27% respectively. This long-standing problem at the beginning of the school year is usually indicated, and then the concern is turned upside down, and the next day is another problem, but it is high time and obligation not to turn our head on International Day of the Child and this problem of losing or reducing the number of students, and it is fair to talk about the fact that reducing the number of students will necessarily lead to extra labour in the education system because a number of schools have already reported extra labour. So teachers whom we rarely considered other parents will become more and more jobless. All positive regulations and international documents say children have the right to education, but it is extremely important not to be that many formalists just in the fact that children have the right to access education are considered sufficient. Imagine what it's like for a child, but also for his parents, and certainly for teachers when a child just sits in class? All this is certain to affect the social development of the child’s social qualities. I am also afraid to think about what is wrong with the children's earthquake affected areas which are also very often alone in the class because for them, the famous Radičevićeva "From the cradle to the grave is the most beautiful student age" will remain just an empty floscula. The loss of students and the closure of schools are the largest symbol of the country's demographic collapse and certainly not a good message. This problem is unbiased, non-political and must not be nationally colored, I especially point out because it is high time that we all focus together on strategically solving this problem in the hope that the next International Day of the Child and World Teachers Day will be marked in a better, preferably more numerous children's environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58091	We are going to the 8th exhibition, dear colleague Dalia Oreskovic on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58092	Thank you to the President, the Honorable MPs and MPs. In local elections, some new forces have managed to awaken voters' hopes in some areas that changes are possible. In doing so, the largest bastions and the greatest trusts, two stoneheads, two cornerstones of Croatia, as they should or may be tomorrow, became Zagreb and Split. In those two largest cities, a critical crowd of voters were formed who were willing to support those who offered something new. And regardless of what two different policy options are about different programmes, different attitudes, especially on economic issues, their success is in some way important and crucial to the political fate of all of us. Regardless of who supports or does not support these options, the fact is that if they disappoint Croatia will find it difficult to wake up again in some of the next elections and lead with their voice to finally get out of the gap, out of the black, out of the perspective and out of all the problems in which HDZ is holding us. When voters voted for these new forces, they expected new and better management methods. This concerns any situation that shows that we may not have achieved the goal we hoped for. I will refer to events related to the selection of directors and board of the Children's Hospital of Srebrenica in Zagreb. I warn that what would be really bad would be bad for some new people to keep some old bad habits. I point out that all the competitions and all the public calls should really be objective and transparent, not falsified because it was just that old bad habit we fought against. I support autonomy, but real, not just the declared autonomy of those who decide election and appointment procedures. However, the problems will not only be solved by safeguarding this mere form and this ideal because what voters essentially voted for is not only a procedure but also a awareness that certain tenders should represent the correcting of some old wrongs. And there is a certain difference between the competitions where a person is sought for the first time or competitions which in some way represent the correction of those situations where someone who spent 10 years of their professional professional work in the general public well-being has proven himself to some projects, has brought big projects, big money to the Republic of Croatia, and has been removed in the middle of his mandate because he has disturbed the political oligarchy at the time, so in this case the competition is not only looking for a new director but an attempt to correct the injustice committed by the previous government. I'm afraid we slipped on this issue. In no way do I want to question what should have been done by the Zagreb authorities, but all those who conduct the tenders must be aware of the fact that the real change is not only the formal introduction of public calls, public tenders and those declared procedures. The real change is to convince the public of the reasons, motives and criteria for selecting those who are being re-established to some public functions. If there's no convincing explanation and criteria, I'm afraid we're not on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58151	6th debate The Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58152	The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. A liter of fuel today at the gas stations costs almost 12k, so this is the price of today's fuel on one gas station on the 11th.79 kn 11.79 kn. I'll remind you first that some so long ago in 1994. The fuel cost only $1.60, I'll repeat the 1.60, or there's an increase in fuel prices. How much? Nine times the fuel increased during that period. What bothers me, which is that most of that price is not the price of oil itself or oil barrels, it's not even the margin of those who sell fuel, it's the excise duty. What citizens need to know 60% of the price of fuel goes into the pocket of the state, it's these famous excise duties and VAT. So, about this price, £11.79 goes to you 7.74 you're going to the state, so nearly £8 goes to the state. Now, of this remainder of $ 3.8, you actually have a real price of oil that is paid on the world market after the refinement and finally we have that margin, which is in this case.82.82.and 82............................................................................................................... I'll repeat, almost 8 kn takes the state, so 60%, somewhere around 32.5% is the price of oil and margins, or the profit of the pump owner is about 7.5%. I don't know if the Croatian public knows what these excise duties are spent on? The VAT of course goes directly to the budget, but your excise duties go to the Croatian railways, so billions of kunas from the fuel price go to HZ annually, and we see that this makes sense because in 50 minutes you can get on the train from Split to Zagreb and vice versa and all the railways are electrified and we do not have trains coming out and Croatia seems extremely well in this sense. Croatia actually has a similar quality of rail transport today as well as Japan and France. We're a little faster than the TGV in France, but we're just as fast with the Japanese. As for the rest of the excise duty, it goes to HAC, Croatian roads and goes to you, for example. and for the financing of the Agency for Mandatory Oil Stocks. It doesn't go very well, it's going to you all around today about 25 June you're going to finance a mandatory oil supply agency. If we were to recalculate it, it's also hundreds and hundreds of millions of kunas, I wonder what it's all about. So someone's keeping oil in some warehouse, and for that, they get hundreds of millions of kunas a year. I haven't been able to calculate the amount, but here's what I'm going to do for the next days to present it to the Croatian public. Why am I saying all this? Croatian citizens are on the verge of poverty. There's some elite, caste, I called her, 15 grand which we also have Croatian representatives in HS who live without worry. However, when someone wants to fill the fuel tank today with pay, minimum wage or slightly less than minimum wage or average salary, he has to spend 500 kunas on how much he has to spend. So I appeal to the Croatian government, which is in its power because the barrel of oil is not so expensive, that reducing excise duties makes life easier for Croatian citizens. I'll do it again. There is no state in an environment that has as much excise duty as Croatia, so I call on the Government of Croatia to reduce the excise duty on fuel and to at least partially make life easier for Croatian citizens who are really on the verge of existence, and this is the real problem, the most real problem that plagues Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58328	We are going to the 4th debate on behalf of HNS, HSU and independent representatives, dear colleague Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u58329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Republic of Croatia is currently conducting a census after which, I believe by the end of the year, we will know the key information about the exact number of residents of our country. For the first time, citizens had the opportunity to self-record themselves through the system of e-Citizens. In this first phase of the census, more than a million 637 thousand inhabitants, or citizens of the Republic of Croatia, will be about 40% of the total population most likely. More than anyone expected. The state service succeeded what wasn't even private. In the short run, he attracted a large number of users. Although the census was voluntary, although it required a certain level of digital literacy, including time, citizens took responsibility and showed readiness to digital co-operation with the public administration. With this self-report, citizens have sent a clear message that they are ready for the digitisation of public administration. Now it's the country's turn. Croatia is still not at a satisfactory level of digitisation compared to other EU members. According to the economic and social digitisation index for 2020, Croatia is in 20 places, and in the category of digital public services we are at the very beginning. This is the European Commission's data that has been monitoring Member States' digital progress since 2014 through the report on the index of economic and social digitisation. We can say that the good foundations have been laid back for several years and that progress on the digitisation of public administration is visible. However, the system requires further strong improvement in order to serve its citizens more effectively. The current pandemic of Covid and the measures to limit movement have also shown how much digital resources and information are needed to carry out day-to-day activities. Digitalisation is present today in all spheres of life and is a prerequisite for further progress in the economy and society. A functional eGovernment system, with the exception of enabling the provision of the necessary services and information and the provision of procedures by electronic means, also enables greater transparency of the system, better public insight into the functioning of public administration institutions, and thus greater accountability of public officials and employees. If we want to be a society of potential investment in digitization is inevitable. It is necessary to extend the e-service system and simplify, speed up and facilitate their use. By investing in information, we need to make digital content available, and by investing in education reforms and programmes, we need to strengthen the digital skills of the citizens themselves. If we are to achieve all the reform objectives we have outlined in the strategic documents by the end of this decade, and if we want our country to catch up with the 4 industrial revolution, it is necessary to listen as responsible members of society to any of our citizens. And in this case, they have shown willingness to work digitally with the public administration and sent a clear message that they are ready and expect strong steps towards modernization, informing the entire state apparatus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61395	This brings us to the end of the club position and independent representatives, so now we move on to the agenda as we have announced. First point: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 154. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. He raised his hand, my fellow Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61396	Dear President, I request a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club for further consultations on the item of today's agenda, and also on the occasion of the anniversary, the 30th anniversary of the assassination of the first Croatian president Dr. Francis Tudjman, who, by God's will and transparency, has avoided his death, the consequences we can only imagine or cannot imagine, but I point to an incredible fact that not a day today 30. later on in this HS the highest representative home [[Agreement: colleague Sačić]] HS no adequate mention of our first Croatian president, we have [[Intruder: Comrade Sacic, please]] Blue salons, we've got green salons. [[Please stop, please stop.]] We have yellow salons, but we don't have.../Speaker off/... [[Intruder: No, no, stop, please]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61397	Comrade Sacic, please stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61398	...Dr. Francis Tudjman...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61399	Comrade Sacic, please stop, stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61400	Why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61401	Why am I interrupting you, so I'll make it very clear to you, first because the break can only be sought for that item of the agenda currently being discussed. So this certainly isn't the point of discussing the assassination attempt on Dr. Francis Tudjman. I understand what you're saying, but right now 10 minutes ago we're done taking the club stand and you could have used those five minutes and talked about it. Now look for a break at the time of the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education is a violation of the Rules of Procedure... Comrade Sacic, come on, so don't, please nice, so let's not do the circus at the assembly. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] [[They don't know enough, and so do we.]] Comrade Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61402	I am looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to remind once again of the importance of a highly neglected education system at this time of the pandemic where both our schools and other educational institutions have become more epidemiological centres than the systems in which the educational process takes place and the quality of it, and on the other hand, just to remind myself that these legal changes are certainly not on the trail of what all of us should be a common goal, and that is that we have a better quality education system that can only be achieved so that there are institutions that can act independently and analyze the same processes that take place in education. In fact, the law suggests that the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education be put at ease under the paw of the Resoring Ministry. This is a bad decision because if the ministry implements certain policies there must also be independent institutions that will evaluate the educational processes resulting from the executive authority in this case of the ministry. If these legal provisions go through, then we'll have a situation to plastically explain that in some near future no one will be able to compile one new Blaženko Divjak or another third person who will wake up again inspired and think that the destruction and rebuilding of the entire educational process is her life mission. We must therefore have stable institutions, institutions that are able to analyse, evaluate and stop the same processes. This law offers us exactly the opposite. An institution that does such a thing puts under the hands of the ministry and prevents serious and independent evaluation process. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61403	She's been granted a break. Is anyone else picking up? If we don't continue at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes. It's 10:00.17. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.30 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61405	The President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs, there is a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, and I would first of all like to thank you for the constructive debate during the first reading as well as for the proposals and opinions presented. As we pointed out at the first reading of the Law on the National External Evaluation of Education for the first time was adopted in 2004 and this created institutional preconditions for establishing an external evaluation of education in the Republic of Croatia. It prescribes the activities and structure of the centre and other issues necessary to carry out the activities of the external evaluation of the educational system including the organisation and implementation of the state graduation. This legal framework was adopted because the education and education systems of the Republic of Croatia did not develop models of external evaluation of student achievements, knowledge, skills and the success of the educational institutions themselves. It was precisely because there were no such exact indicators that made it difficult to introduce innovations in the teaching process of managing the system and creating an educational policy. For this reason, it was necessary to establish a national evaluation system in the Republic of Croatia to ensure a valid, reliable, objective evaluation of the results of the education process that is necessary to improve the quality of education in Croatian schools. Namely, an independent evaluation system is based on high professionalism and ethics and it can and should help all subjects in the educational process primarily students and teachers. Currently applicable provisions of the Law on the National Centre have defined the founder of the Centre of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of the founders are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law stipulate that the rights and responsibilities of the founders of the centre instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall be carried out by the Ministry of Education, which shall allow for the more efficient and faster performance of the work of the Centre itself. It is also stated in the current legal framework that at least once a year the centre reports on the results of its work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, and since amendments to the laws are proposed that the rights and duties of the founder of the Centre are carried out by the Ministry of Education and Education, it is further prescribed that the Centre on the results of its work except for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee for Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament also reports the Ministry of Science and Education. Furthermore, the amendments in question have been proposed to regulate the structure of the centre by the Statute of the Centre, not by law, as it has now been, which enables the centre to make its structure more efficient and to adapt it in the best way to carry out its activities. Administratively, as you are familiar with the administrative board of the centre itself, and since the composition of the board of directors of the centre has so far not been in line with the Labour Act as regards the representation of the representatives of the staff of the centre, the proposed law provides for the selection of one member of the board of directors as a representative of the worker. It is also predicted that the previous consent to the Statute of the Centre, which brings the administrative council in place of the Croatian Parliament, is given by the Ministry of Science and Education, because it is noted that the most legislative and representative body does not give consent to the statute as a fundamental general act of any other public institution with powers at national level, and the proposed solution also represents the discharge of the highest legislative and representative body. The subject-matter of the amendments shall also be subject to the provisions relating to the general conditions for the Director of the Centre in such a way as to prescribe that one of the general conditions to be met by the Director of the Centre, in place of the high level of professional training, is completed at least a graduate university study or an integrated undergraduate and graduate university study, and, as a condition of working experience with education, is added and work in science, and the Director of the Centre shall also introduce the position of assistant directors which is necessary to effectively carry out the tasks of the Centre in order to ensure that the activities of the assistant director and part-time of its work are prescribed by the Statute of the Centre. As no provisions have been laid down so far which carry out the printing, packaging, distribution and return of State Graduation Exams under the amendments in question have been prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to designate, on a proposal from the Minister in charge of Education, a legal person owned by the State for the conduct of certain follow-up operations in connection with the conduct of the State Graduation Exams. The concept of official secrecy is replaced by a broader term of classified information in accordance with the Data Securitisation Act. This allows for more adequate use of the general act to provide for degrees of secrecy as well as compliance with the Data Securitisation Act so that, in accordance with the amended provision, the data relating to the transactions of the prescribed law and the information on which the identity of the subjects is deemed to be confidential and in accordance with the regulation governing the confidentiality of the data. The current legal provisions stipulate that the centre cannot acquire, burden or alienate the property and other property whose value is greater than the value established by the Statute of the Centre, therefore changes and additions of the law are prescribed to the value of the property of the Centre in such a way as to prescribe that the Director of the Centre has the right to take all legal actions in the name and for the account of the Centre worth up to 300,000 kuna. A provision under which the Director needs the consent of the Governing Council to take action with a value greater than 300,000 kuna, the consent of the founders to take the action whose value is greater than 600,000 kuna and the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take the action whose value is greater than 3 million kuna. We note that, compared to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the final text of the law accepts the objection of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, which refers to the need for a reference to the need for prior consent given by the Ministry of Science and Education to the Statute of the Centre, and in this respect, the Article has been amended. 6th century 2 to which Article 2 is amended. C. 7th century 2. Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. They have also been explicitly completed. 4th and 9th of the proposed law. The Ministry of Science and Education has also considered and analysed the other proposals and opinions of the day in the first reading, thus considering the proposal on the internal structure of the centre, or how the current legislative regulation should be maintained under which the consent to the Statute of the Centre is given to HS. The Ministry remains in the position that giving prior consent to the Statute of the Centre by the Ministry of Science and Education is a more effective solution which will ultimately contribute to the speed of action, in particular in the event of the need for an urgent change in the internal structure of the establishment or abolition of a particular unit, service or the like. Moreover, as we have already explained above, there is no other public institution of national level with powers at national level, meaning both the statute and the consent given by the most state and legislative representative body. In this regard, we are of the opinion that the proposed solution is also the discharge of the highest legislative and representative body of the Republic of Croatia. Also related to changes in art. 5, which is prescribed that the centre report on work other than the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the HS also provides the Ministry of Science and Education and notes that the report, according to the Ministry of Science and Education, will differ from that of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, points out that the centre has a obligation to produce a single report at least once a year, published on the website of the National Centre and delivered to all those bodies, so the centre does not produce separate reports on its work for each of those state bodies. Finally, I would like to point out that the key changes and additions adopted by this final draft law will contribute to the adjustment of the implementation of activities and tasks of the external evaluation of the Croatian education system including the organisation, but also the implementation of the state graduation, as well as the additional challenges expected by the national centre in this school year, such as the state graduate test, as well as the announced national exams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61406	I thank the Secretary of State. Stay here because we have replicas, first order of business colleague Selak Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61407	Dear Secretary of State, I am not sure why you thanked us precisely for the constructive debate when it was not constructive is the constructive debate resulting from one compromise seen in the second reading of the law, and it did not come from our discussion on this subject. You have not respected the key objection, and it consists of the fact that you submit this centre to the ministry with such a legal proposal, and how can you criticise and evaluate the policies of the ministry that he is subordinated to? That's my first question. And the second question concerns exactly the execution of the state's graduation, which is why the centre is best known. How do you comment on the fact that we only learned about irregularities in the process of implementing this year's national diplomas from the media instead of official notes or from the center itself and that they were not subsequently published on the centre's pages, does the ministry worry about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61408	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61409	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We thanked for the fact that the work of the centre has been enlightened and has given meaning to the dignity of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education as an institution that cares for the quality and external evaluation of the Croatian system, education and education in a way that has been seen that the national centre is not only working on the national prom, that it is just one of its two basic activities, and it is about the national exams that have been announced to take place in the next school year. In connection with irregularities in state graduations, the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education reported on time all results related to the state graduation threshold, as well as the successes achieved. This year, for the first time, the national centre itself carried out the entire evaluation process of the state's graduation exams itself, thus resolving complaints unlike the previous years when it was resolved by the Commission of the Ministry of Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61410	Let's go to line two, colleague Nemet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61411	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, here's another chance for you to explain to us why HS's intelligence is being transferred to the Ministry? We believe that such an important institution in the Republic of Croatia should be in the HSC, so can you explain to us, given that e-consultation results in the process being faster and more efficient, so please what, what do you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61412	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61413	Thank you very much. So you have seen since the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education was adopted and, on the basis of it, the statutes as a fundamental general act of a public institution, so far there has been no amendment, no addition to the very text of the Statute of the National Centre, and there have been multiple needs and almost every year for the amendments and additions of such a basic general act, that is one thing. The second reason is, there is no public institution with powers at national level where the basic general act is changed with the consent of the highest Croatian legislative and representative body because of the need to organise the state graduation process itself, but also national exams as a result, as one of the measures and evaluations itself, of the external evaluation of the educational system itself, it is necessary that the centre adapts its structure, but also its powers in the need to carry out those tasks for which it is authorised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61414	Thank you very much. Now it's Comrade Bedekovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61415	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, listening to previous replicas, and part of the informal debates, I have the impression that it is always trying to impose the thesis that this law will put the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education under the authority of the Ministry of Science and Education which will violate the independence of the centre. I cannot fully agree with this thesis by reading the provisions of this law, and therefore I ask you once again to explain and give your opinion or the opinion of the promoter, which is the Ministry of Science and Education regarding the independence of the work of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61416	Thank you very much. With regard to the independence of the Centre, there was no obstacle or obstacle to, say, the previous administration of the Ministry of Science and Education affecting the independence of the Centre’s work by the fact that the statute is in jurisdiction or consent to the amendments and addition of the statutes of the Centre itself that HS is as the most legislative and representative body. I must remind you that the question of the success of the thresholds at the state prom itself was left to the national centre itself, and we have examples that, for example, the threshold of passability during the previous administration was abolished for the Croatian language field for the essay exam. Thus, it simply argues that something is placed or subject to the competences of the Ministry of Science and Education as the central authority of the state administration responsible for the tasks of education simply does not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61417	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61418	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I have three questions for you, the first question which is your view on the humiliation of HS in the fact that the National Centre for External Education has not been for a long time, let alone once a year that he has submitted his report to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture? Secondly, why is it also trying to reduce the role of HS in one part of the kidnapped part of independence to the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and to transfer it directly under the hat of the Ministry of Science and Education? And third, why do you think according to this law that someone experienced in scientific research in the field of agriculture, construction, medicine would be a better director of the NGO than someone who has ten years of experience, say, as an examination coordinator at a school, and this is exactly what you allow, the same levels and two categories of people who are here and at first sight are not equally qualified to lead such important institutions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61419	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, I will repeat that nothing is put under the hat of the Ministry of Science and Education as works of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the works of the executive authority. During the 15-year experience and practice of the work of the NGO, it was seen that it was almost impossible to change the structure of the centre itself in order to meet all the needs and requirements and powers that had been put before it, which was primarily state graduation and national exams which had unfortunately not been conducted so far. and when you ask me about the report on the work of the National Centre, you have to ask the question of the previous meeting of the Management Board of the Centre and the previous Director, i.e. during the five-year period, why and for which no reports on the work of the Centre itself have been submitted. What is the fact that the head of the centre as director attended committee meetings and informed the Committee on Education Science and Culture as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia as its founder about the centre. I'm telling you one more time, you don't have any public national institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61420	Thank you. Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61421	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It's not important, it's not important, but we mentioned so far it's in art. The 6th Fundamental Law was foreseen for the centre to submit its report to the government and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in the Assembly, now the government and committee are being introduced and the ministry. My question, and then in my first reading, any reason why, why isn't enough report just to the government, but now the ministry is exploited? And I didn't say there would be two reports, I was rhetorically asking if they would be really different now if we address the report specifically to the ministry and especially to the government. Why is that necessary?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61422	Thank you very much. In fact, the practice imposed by the Law on Institutions as a roof law governing the structure, jurisdiction and part-time authority of certain bodies does not stipulate that the public institution itself submits a report on its work to its founder, and that the law proposes that the founder of the National Centre will be the Ministry of Science and Education then it is clear by the logic of the Law on Institutions that the report should also be delivered to its founder, as public higher universities provide reports to their founders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61423	I thank the Secretary of State, you can return to your post now. I'm going to call the committee's reporters now to take the floor? Yes, colleague Bedekovic, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61424	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, Director of the NCVVO. The Board on Education, Science and Culture of HS, in the capacity of the home working body, considered the Final Proposal of the NCVVO Act, which, when the opening debate was held, pointed out that the adoption of the proposed law on the national centre would allow, above all, the establishment of its own internal structure and adapt it in the best way to be able to do and carry out tasks under its jurisdiction. And also what has been pointed out, this law introduces the post of assistant centre that has not existed so far, and it is necessary for more effective implementation of the centre's tasks and also provides for the selection of one member of the board of directors as a representative of workers in order to comply with the Labour Act and, of course, the prior consent to the Statute of the Centre is provided that, instead of the HS, the Ministry of Science and Education, which significantly relieves the work of the highest legislative and representative body or HS. What we think here needs to be highlighted, which is that the debate points to the need for a change in art. 9 Proposal for a law laying down the conditions for the selection of the Director of the Centre, and the members of the Committee supported by the majority vote the adoption of a final draft of the law with amendments, i.e. in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 9 whose section 2 is changed and said, behind the words of work experience in, words are added, scientific activities in the field of education and education. The Committee members consider that this amendment prescribes the conditions for selecting the Director of the Centre in such a way that one of the prescribed choices is the conditions for, prescribed conditions for the selection of the Director and has been achieved, certainly working experience in the scientific activity and in the field of education, which we consider to be significant and therefore I call on the Proposer to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61425	I thank my colleague Bedekovic. Now we'll move on to the debate. The first is a respected colleague, Selak Rasudić, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61426	My colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians. I dare say HS has capitulated. Forgive me for being dramatic, I really do not tend to be pathetic, but the fact that in HS for a change we are discussing the educational process and, in part, in its most sensitive part, that we are only interested in the evaluation of the knowledge of our students and institutions who are willing to evaluate educational processes at all. In this situation of accumulated problems in education that are not at all in the focus of public interest, where our educational institutions, on the one hand, are reduced to epidemiological institutions, where no one is really concerned with the process of reforming education that is currently entering our system, so we are reportedly going to have a critical opinion that, to be cynical to the end, is likely to be uncritically evaluated, we in HS, the parliamentary representatives have been capitulating ahead of the topic of education. She's only interested in a few. I'm sorry, but as someone who is part of the educational process, I find this truly devastating and I feel it's my duty, before I look back at the concrete changes to this Law and all the things that are not acceptable to them, to animated the Croatian public and all of us here to wake up from Covid's dream and return to what we once did, at least in moments when there were enough attractive persons who talked about it, and obviously and only then, was it in focus, and that is how to make the educational processes and the system more acceptable for children and also for teachers. Where are we? Why are we sleeping? I'll remind you of another important thing. The current ruling set of education is not a priority. This is not a question of my impression, but it is a matter of fact, that is, what was proven in the previous meeting when the most important resort in the country, and this is not just a flossule, because it's a portfolio that created us all, left in the hands of a minority partner who didn't know what to do with it, so he played along and gave it to someone who didn't have the support of the people at all because he didn't participate in parliamentary elections to play with him a little bit, so now these reform processes are drying up a new set. I remind you of this because it is in education that every little bit appears some educational messiah who remembers that his life's task is to build a monument through the latest reform process. We've had Shuvars and miracles before, and we haven't been vaccinated in this age. And that is why it is extremely important for us here as the most important legislative body in the country to wake up and participate in the adoption of such laws, which are key to controlling and disabling the whims of future Ministers of Science and Education, and the bogs and the present. Because the fact that this Law prevents independent evaluation, namely that the NGO is placed under the hands of the ministry, and my colleague Bedekovic, I will explain exactly what it seems in the law, that it would not be possible to say again that there is some kind of misinformation here, it is about facts, it shows the immaturity of our society because we are not ready for independent evaluation of educational processes. It's our defeat, and the fact that this is being talked about by a few of us, you're going to let me remind you one more time, is the serious capitulation of HS. If he doesn't care about education, then how do we expect the Croatian people to deal with it. And then we have a spiral of evil or a vicious circle, and we can't expect democratic processes in a country that will be quality, and therefore, not even high-quality parliamentary representatives who will deal with this same education. So let me go back to the second reading of this law. It's funny to me that you said that you thank us for our constructive discussion, and when I asked you what it meant to you constructively when you didn't follow our suggestions, then you said it was really nice that we talked about the Centre here, so that's constructive to you, here, that we talked a little bit about the Center being there. Here, I am now constructive again because a few times I came out of my mouth the word NCVVO and should remain highlighted and recorded how you experience construction. As a mild debate on the very concepts that are in place, and not as a dialogue that includes respecting the opposition proposal and the quality of change in education. And thank you for thanking us for talking about the Centre. So, as far as these amendments are concerned, you listed them after my earlier complaint concerning the fact that there is no justification for the consequences that will arise by the adoption of amendments to the Law, which refers to the amendment of the Article. 2 in which the government of the Republic of Croatia is replaced by the words of the ministry responsible for education. And that means, translated, put under the paw of education. They weren't asked about any of my artistic impressions of the law. You said that by adopting the law, where it is stated that the proposed law will allow for a more efficient arrangement of the internal structure of the centre, it will speed up the procedures for the outcome of consent for decisions of the centre which require the consent of the founder. And that was an argument to you why this change is necessary. However, the reason for the acceleration of procedures is not sustainable. Especially not now that new digital legal communication channels have opened. After all, if requests for consensus are launched on time and if the ministry does not stop it for what, this need. Unfortunately, it is possible that the real reason is hidden in the next analogy of conduct. Note, in 2002, the Law on the Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia was adopted where Article 2 states that it is the founder of the Institute of Education of the Republic of Croatia, and that the rights and responsibilities of the founders are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Institute of Education was an independent institution that had a bearing on better education policy management, development and improvement of the education system in the Republic of Croatia. Just before the implementation of the major reform in education 2006. HNOS, i.e. the introduction of the Croatian National Education Standard, becomes the Agency for Education and Education and loses independence because the rights and responsibilities of the founders are assumed by the ministry. This is the easiest way for reformers to achieve reform processes because there are no independent institutions to monitor implementation and give an objective opinion. The director of the agency was Vinko Filipovic at the time, and Radovan Fuchs was an assistant minister of education. The Agency is slowly losing its role in the promotion and development of education and education systems and transforming itself into administrative support for the resolution of the laws prescribed by educational professionals, such as passing expert exams, promotions, etc. And the most important question is whether it becomes just an instrument to carry out the ministry's tasks or the current ruling policy. It is therefore justified to ask whether this same amendment will also become the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, only the administrative support for the needs of the ministry. From what I've said, some protagonists of that story are also the same as they were almost 10 years ago. So this concern has a very strong basis in facts. The fact that the centre is losing its independence because its work will be supervised exclusively by the Ministry of Science and Education shows that the impact on education will be given to the willingness of the political option in power. I'll remind the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education has data on human potential, young people coming out of the system of secondary education, and that's his treasure, his greatest treasure. So far, as an independent body, he has made sure that these data are used exclusively for the purpose of improving the system and he has defended all legal and professional arguments against abuse and possible exploitation of certain political options. The main concern is that the loss of independence opens the way to possible manipulations of valuable data. Let me remind you once again that this government has already shown how much concern it is for education when it was torn up by a minority partner as obviously the ministry that she least cared about. And precisely because we still have the same power, and tomorrow we may have a similar one, we have to fight here with all our powers to ensure that institutions that act independently and which are able to evaluate educational processes without the influence of politics survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61427	We are going to another debate, Green-Left Block Representative Club, dear colleague Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61428	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state, here is how, first of all, we give a positive assessment of the addition of paragraph 4 to Article 4 of the basic law, which is now being given to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the legal person in the state property for the printing, packaging and distribution of state graduation exams. We also give a positive assessment of Article 8 which now determines that one member of the Governing Council will be from the ranks of employees, of course. As in the first reading, however, we are not convinced of the need to introduce a new position as assistant director. Furthermore, Article 10 provides for a new paragraph 3 of Article 4 of the basic law, which roughly states that the cost of up to 300,000 kuna is to be determined by the Director, for the costs between 300 and 600,000 kuna, it needs the consent of the Governing Council, between 600,000 kuna and 3 million kuna, but now it is not the Government of the Republic of Croatia but the Ministry and then on some higher costs, it actually needs the consent of the Government. It all makes sense, however, now that the government of the Republic of Croatia has been replaced by a ministry in terms of someone acting as the founders' rights and duties, especially now there is no real reason for consent to the statutes, to move the amendments to the statutes from parliament's jurisdiction to the ministry's jurisdiction, because this puts the National Centre for External Evaluation completely under the control of the ministry. The arguments that the government of the Republic of Croatia states are simply thin are inconclusive. First of all, it's nice to say that you're going to relieve the council, but thank you, it's not necessary. We can do that. Secondly, you're saying that this will make us more effective in the event of a need for a hasty change in the statutes or formation of a national centre, so I don't think that the nature of the action of the National Centre for External Evaluation and Education is such that it is abundant in the need for rapid changes in the structure. And it is said that there is no public institution of the national level, meaning both the statute and the consent given by the Assembly, I may not quite understand the legal nomenclature, but it seems to me that there are very many public institutions of the national level at, at, for which amendments to the statutes require consent of the parliament, but well. Once again, I will continue this little reporting controversy of ours. You said the centre should now report to the ministry under the Law on Institutions because these amendments and amendments to the law are now actually being put into the role of someone who performs the rights and responsibilities of founders, the founder of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in the current law of law and the responsibilities of the founders, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was the address to which the report was delivered, along with the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Science and Culture. So now you're adding the ministry because now the ministry is carrying out the duties and rights of the founder. All in all these amendments and additions to the laws, however they turn to the national external evaluation centre, will submit their reports to the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Ministry of Science and Education and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm just being vague, too, and I'm asking out just out of curiosity. Why is it necessary for one of these documents to be specifically addressed to the government, and especially to one of its ministries, are we doing this elsewhere? But well, it really doesn't matter because all of these remarks are really much less important than what this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the National External Assessment Centre does not say, and it doesn't say that this centre should finally start to do its job, what it should actually serve because we are the actual system of external evaluation of the educational system not only do we not have but also do almost nothing to build it that we have a state prom that certainly is a kind of external evaluation, but the state prom can't and never can and will not be able to fully assume that role. And apro by the time we're at it, and, and the implementation system itself, we're in the state's graduation system from year to year, we're formally installing inflationary elements. For example. On 26 May of this year, the Director of the Centre made a decision on the procedure for determining or establishing the thresholds of passability for the assessment of the examinations of the State Graduation and in that Article. 2nd of these decisions say the centre will draw up a proposal for transitional thresholds. How's he gonna make it? On the basis of two elements, on the basis of the criteria adopted in previous years, and on the basis of the data available on distributions of the results of the national graduation exams in the same year for which we determine the thresholds of passivity. In other words, what we do from year to year is next. First we look at the result a little bit, in some representative pattern, and then we try to measure which would be the appropriate thresholds of passability so that we wouldn't be too upset with these results, so much about how we're really doing state graduation. Of course, talking about State graduation would take us a long way, but I couldn't help but mention this and a lot of questions might open up. However, even if all of this were to be done, the center should represent much more. According to Art. 4th century. 1st century. The Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education Centres shall, in addition, carry out external evaluations in primary and secondary schools, as well as other institutions dealing with vocational education and training, on the basis of evaluation analyses, provide proposals to the Ministry for the Permanent Improvement of Quality of Education, carry out advisory work in schools, etc., etc. The question is also, and, of course, rhetorical, what the center of it really does, and when research is conducted like that. PISA or TIMSS and publish results, each action has failed, nor any activity is carried out, and in particular there is no lack of policymaking or measures to be taken, which may be recommended to make any progress or that the results of these studies in the next cycle be better and more favourable for us. Both the national development strategy and the NPOO find that according to the last, last PISA survey carried out in 2018. Almost a third, so over 30% of our 15-year-olds are mathematically illiterate, illiterate to the level of inability to participate fully in normal life flows, according to our national documents. The UFO predicts in one generation de facto at 6. This percentage is no more than half, to reduce the mathematical ignoring process from 30% to 15% in the 6th year, it is both too ambitious and it would be too ambitious and with the maximum effort of all stakeholders, without this maximum effort it is impossible, and where is the centre, the national centre for external evaluation, where is its contribution? Recently, our Assembly Committee discussed the dramatic lack of qualified mathematics and physics teachers and some other subjects we have collected many data analyzed the situation, we have proposed measures in the end and we have reached some conclusions and measures, but for our centre, for our NGO as well as for the ministry it seems to be a parallel reality because no one has been particularly impressed or encouraged by these data... That and all that stuff is what bothers us in the work of the NCVO, lack of vision and lack of action and not fulfilling the basic task of existence [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's really external... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61429	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61430	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of the HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director of the Director of the National Centre. So here I will remind you that the first NCVVO law was passed in 2004. and then these laws created legal assumptions for the establishment of the NGO and, of course, that law prescribed the activities of the centre, its structure and certainly remained important issues that are necessary to carry out the activities of the centre or the external evaluation of education itself. And we all know that the law hasn't been amended since 2004. It is certainly necessary to bring it in line with, above all, the relevant legal regulations adopted in the meantime, and equally in law enforcement, certain shortcomings that need to be corrected through the new law have been seen in the cracks. Therefore, it has already been noted, and I will still repeat it once again, the law defines the founder of the centre of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of the founders are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so we are talking about the current law, not this new proposal. In practice, that observation resulted in in inefficient action by the Centre, which slowed the operation of the Centre's essential business, given that the prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was needed to carry out certain tasks. Equally, the provisions of the law of the existing law are prescribed to form a centre, which also slows down and makes it difficult to amend the internal structure, which results in a slowdown in the operation of the centre and, of course, what is still evident is the existing provisions of the current law that we have in 2004. that the prescribed conditions for the selection of the Director of the Centre are not in line with the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. I will remind you that the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework has abandoned the concept of professional training, and qualifications are located at different levels of HKO. Furthermore, the composition of the members of the Board of Directors is not in line with the provisions of the Labour Act and so far I will not recall the provisions which have not been laid down to carry out the works of printing, packaging, distribution, the return of the State Graduation exams, which certainly made it difficult to carry out the procedure of the State Graduation itself, and therefore it was also necessary to intervene in the existing legal provisions. So, what is the new law that brings us, and what are the important issues that are being solved by the new law? So, above all, a more flexible one solution that will allow the centre itself to form its internal structure and to adapt it in the best possible way to carry out the tasks of its jurisdiction. Similarly, the provisions of the new law introduce the place of assistant director of the centre which has not existed so far, which is necessary for the more efficient performance of the centre’s affairs, and it is certainly prescribed that the conditions for the performance of the assistant director’s duties and his duties are currently being governed by the Statute of the Centre. And just as I have already said, since the composition of the Management Board of the Centre has so far not been in line with the Labour Act on the representation of the Labour Representative, the proposed law provides for the selection of one member of the Board of Directors as a representative of the Workers, and also the provisions of the Law provide that the previous consent to the Statute of the Centre is given to the Ministry of Science and Education in place of HS. Why, why not? So now I am speaking again to explain the attempt to introduce and drag the thesis on the violation of the independence of the centre. Therefore, this provision is introduced because it is noted that the most legislative and representative body, i.e. HS, does not give consent to the status as a fundamental general act of any other public institution with powers at national level, and the proposed solution is certainly the discharge of HS as the highest legislative body. Of course, the envisaged solution under which the rights and responsibilities of the founders are carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education, rather than as so far as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will certainly allow for a more flexible and faster performance of the work of the Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Finally, on the basis of the above mentioned above, since here, in the most part of this law, it is actually a matter of technical changes and harmonisation with new legal regulations, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61431	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61432	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretary, respected director of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, I am deeply sorry that there has been no significant change between the first and second reading of this new bill, or the amendment of the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and that some suggestions of parliamentary representatives and MPs, regardless of what they say on behalf of clubs or on behalf of individuals, are not respected as well as the views of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. As already stated here, this law dates back to 2004 and I personally did not notice the major obstacles defined by the existing law, which would in fact in some ways make it impossible or slow the work itself, the very center itself. If we look at everything that was the headlines that adorned our press, and about certain scandals, it was not because of inadequate solutions in the law, but because of the human factor and the mismanagement of the center itself. So I'll just mention some, some of them. Non-transparently adding points to graduates and recognising incorrect points and putting her in a more favourable position compared to other graduates, the prom prom prommate who shakes up the scandal in exchange for resignation at the National Centre for External Educational Evaluation requires a guarantee that she will be arrested somewhere else, a graduation frenzied scandal, a new graduation scandal because of Zagreb's high school graduates who prescribed an essay cancelled and mathematics, due to the wrong translation of mathematics exams into Italian, which is the failure of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education to the Italian, 13 graduates of Italian schools received 16 points each. Not to mention the period when the head of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education was Mr. Surovatka, who was both removed and conducted a serious investigation and was finally charged with non-transparent spending of money, for violating the labour contract, etc., etc. These are the problems we can discuss if we talk about problems in the functioning of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Likewise today, we can also discuss why the so far set of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education did not respect the law that will remain in this part of the same, which is that it is necessary to submit reports on its work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture at least once a year. That didn't happen. Still in this law, the secretary of state now told me in response to the reply to the opening statement, so the previous director did not send the work report to the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, but they're repercussions of that behavior. What can you as a ministry, as we as a council, do when the head of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education violates the law? Did you change anything on that trail from that experience in this law? You're not. But that is why some other things are changing, so this law defines as already said here that the rights and responsibilities of the founders will now, instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, be carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education, that consent to the Statute of the National Centre for External Education will no longer be given by the Croatian Parliament but will be done by the Ministry of Science and Education. So when we talk about the establishment of a center that has so far been set up by law, it means departments and services are now being transferred to be defined by the statute itself because of the ease of functioning. However, I note that this law could also establish new departments and new dispersed branches by the Republic of Croatia, it was all regulated by law. For this reason, we do not have to change the law, nor can we say that by defining it with the statutes, we will make it easier to work because the law has not now hindered the same way that the structure is different, otherwise regulated. What's a newspaper and what seems to be the sole purpose of this law is the introduction of an assistant director's institute. Is that a crucial question to open up a new job, I'm not sure. When we talk about the conditions for selecting the directors you are changing I have already said in my replica, so far this means adequate education, 10-year experience in the education system and knowledge of English language and some possession of information skills. You are now introducing with a 10-year experience in education and scientific research. However, I repeat the question of someone who has been involved in scientific research in the field of construction, agriculture, medicine, whether it's the same rank with someone who has a 10-year experience as an examination coordinator at a school who has spent 10 or more years, and who has all the other elements. I think you should seriously consider adopting the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. And if we are already looking for experience in scientific research then let it be strictly defined and focused and related to the system of education. That's the only way we can guarantee that we'll get the best of the best quality to run the NCVO. When we talk about the board, I don't mind. This Law is in line with the Labour Act, which says that one member of the Governing Council will be a representative of the workers. However, I appeal to this opportunity for you to do the same in other laws and institutions in the education system, in particular, in agencies. As far as I know, this is still not in line with the Labour Act, so please be consistent with this issue in other educational institutions or roof agencies. It is good to define who will carry out printing, packaging, distribution and return exams and that it will be a state-owned company, assumed by the AKD or the National Journal, probably, the AKD, that's logical. A new asset system is also defined, and that would be the end of it. What is being put before the NCVVO in the coming period are huge things, we will have a test state graduation because this year the graduates who took the first two classes or followed the classes according to the old programs, the third and fourth classes followed by new curriculas. We also have 26 schools that followed the course of new curriculas on the 1st-4th. Similarly, the introduction of standardised national tests that should equally evaluate outcomes is announced in the long run, thus giving feedback to both teachers and teachers and parents and children, but also to the educational system, and objectively objecting in some way, assessments that are measured by a human factor in this case, and the human factor is therefore subjective, and they are largely determining entry positions where very often the assessments are the same, and knowledge is not the same, and there are some students who are actually being brought into a more favourable position and I support it all. However, with all this work that you have in a way that we need to take care of how to help the graduates and all the students with regard to their mental health that has been seriously damaged, they show this research, it is all caused by the pandemic, but also by the earthquake in certain counties in Croatia and this test graduation, meaning a parallel system and the introduction of national standardized tests, I am not sure that the energy weight should be put on changes in the law, especially not in this way. And in conclusion, but not less importantly, I dare say even the most important. We have to do absolutely anything to keep the NCVVO an independent institution. So he has to give a blood count of the education system, independently evaluate both student outcomes, hence the evaluation system, and thus the ministry's policy and resolution agencies. To give that blood count, suggest what measures must be taken to make the education system better. I am afraid that this Law does not go in this direction but goes in the opposite direction which will really lead to one conflict of interest where, in fact, the National Centre, which as a national body should give instructions to the Ministry, will not actually be able to do so in an independent way, because we will not be able to do so through this Law, any authority over its work, which is why we cannot support these and such changes, which the NCVO should be corrective, one serious correction in the creation of education policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61433	Thank you. We move to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61434	I think the speech on behalf of the club made it clear that we can't support these legal changes, but I am stressing it unequivocally this way. So, perhaps someone who is not referred to the actions of individual institutions and the way they relate to each other should be explained how it should look like an ideal flow of information to see why there is such a rebellion here against the proposed legislative amendment in which this Center will come into the hands of the Ministry. It's one simplified interpretation, but it's totally in line with what these legal changes suggest. Namely, if the rights and responsibilities of the founders are taken over by the ministry instead of the government, then the separation and independence of the institutions and the ability to control the same ministry are lost. So, what should the ideal flow of the ministry look like? You have the Government of the Republic of Croatia which determines or sets national goals in education, then you have the Ministry of Science and Education, which is the holder of an educational policy that develops an action plan for the achievement of national objectives in cooperation with national agencies. Then, you have the national agencies of the competent ministry that implement the action plan activities and then you have the NGO that evaluates the implementation of the action plan activities and reports to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HS on the results and the consequence is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HS have a clear insight into the validity of the education policy of the Ministry of Science and Education and Education and the success or failure of the same decision-making on the basis of objective indicators. And how can we expect that the current that makes these bodies exist in the first place will be maintained if the rights and obligations of the founders are transferred to the Ministry? We're in a serious crisis of institutions today. I don't know how well the Croatian public is, but, for example, when we talk about the Rehabilitation Act, the fact that more than a year after the first earthquake didn't work out at all, which is trying to shut down the new proposed legislative changes to the institutions, i.e. the control of public procurement below the threshold of 39 million kuna. So our solution, the government's systematic solution here for the inefficientness of institutions, because the key argument here for the proposed legislative changes is precisely the efficiency of the institutions, or when we talk about an earthquake, which is now closer and clearer to people, is to skip institutions that are there to monitor and control, and in this situation, to put everything under Ministry's authority. So, I'm going to remind you that this has already happened with the Education and Education Agency, which also fell under the Ministry and thus lost its independence, and now we have the same procedure that happens with the NGO. If we are not able to make institutions effective, and I will remind myself that if the Ministry blames inefficiency as an argument to introduce such legal changes, then it actually accuses itself and jumps into its mouth itself because you work together with the rest of the government, to be more efficient and there will be no need for that argument, and therefore for such changes of the law. So you here de facto expose yourself as someone who doesn't do enough quality work of your own. It is certainly not good for you, thank you for informing us about this, and it is very bad for you to, instead of correcting your work, offer us legal changes that will make independent institutions subject to the Ministry. It's not, I'll do it again, good for Croatia. The maturity of Croatian society is seen exactly how much we are able to allow independent institutions to do their jobs, to value the policies of the Ministry, not to rush, to take advantage of the shortcuts, to implement our own policies more easily and without criticism. Tomorrow you won't be the minister, or who knows who will come to power. Will you be glad to have no control of that same authority?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61435	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61436	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, Selak Rasdic. In your opening part of this individual debate, you said that someone needs to be explained how the Constitution works. Maybe that's what needs to be done to you right now. So your biggest problem is that the Ministry takes over the government's intelligence. You should be reminded that the Ministry of Science is an integral part of the government. You should be reminded, just as you are sorry that the Parliament will no longer give consent to the statutes, that the statute, that the Assembly is the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia and is derived from it by the Government, the Government,.../incomprehensible/... The Parliament appoints the Government and the Government of the Parliament responds. In the functioning of the facility, the statute should be implemented in the Commercial Court. After the statute is rejected in the Trade Court for various technical reasons, will we return to the Parliament's procedure? The parliamentary deputies are here to Discussions on the legislative framework [[Thank you. Dear,.../]] not on implementing acts. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61437	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61438	You may not be aware that there is a trio of power, but the colour and division between different institutions, so it was too difficult for you to follow this ideal flow of information that I have listed here, as it was obviously too difficult for you to listen to this debate because you obviously do not understand the difference between the statute and the jurisdiction of HS which I have not spoken at all, nor have I mentioned, making your replica unnecessary and what I have pointed to, which is an art. 2 where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is replacing itself with the Ministry of Education, so that it could be replicated to you at all, you should first hear what I said or understood, so give me a replica relating to the content that I have presented, and not some other colleagues in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61439	The Honorable representative of the Voice has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61440	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, how do you comment on the fact that we now have two, so to speak, roof institutions that care about quality assurance, including through external evaluation? These are the Agency for Science and Higher Education on the one hand, when we talk about a system of higher education, which through accreditation and accreditation guarantees exactly this part of which I just talked about and the pandan thereof in one part of my activities can be the NGO which also, taking care of quality assurance, and through the evaluation of the education system should work to increase the same. On the one hand, HS is extremely important to the management of the AZVO because the president + 7 members of the AZVO appoints and resolves exactly this HS, if something in the law has not changed in the meantime and has not a NCVVO [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] Bring to Level [[Intruder: Thank you.]] regular levels of the Ministry. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61441	The answer of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61442	This is certainly not in line with the policies for which it is nominally, but only nominally advocates this government neither with an ideal display of Croatian education nor with what these institutions should do at all. I'll agree with you and what you've given in a speech on behalf of the club, if we allow such agencies to submit to the Ministry on such legal amendments, then we can automatically and abolish them, and there will no longer be a question as to why we have two institutions whose scope of action is partly overlapping. So either we agree that we have institutions that, by their scope of work and the way they work, guarantee independence or we can really abolish them. If we go into this kind of legal change, which I strongly object to, then the question arises whether these agencies themselves are excesses, in this sense, in which they are imagined as Office Exposition [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Now they're getting up. [[Intruder: The replica has...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61443	...respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61444	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Rasdic. By listening to your individual debate, I somehow get the impression that further distinction should be made and further underline the line and clearly explain the difference between the independence of an institution, in this case the National Centre and its effectiveness in terms of operational and operational affairs in the context of, for example, the process of adopting statutes and giving consent to the statutes as provided by law instead of the present assembly, that this consent is given by the Ministry of Science. It would be useful to try to think about it, if you've ever managed any institution, which means and which means the process of adopting statutes, internal structure and all of those essential things that are important for operational functioning. one facility. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61445	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61446	I'm gonna have to repeat, I don't know what's unclear to you, I wasn't even talking about the inexcusability of the changes that are related to the statute of the center. Again, these were objections and proposals from part two of the opposition. I didn't trouble that part. The part that I'm dealing with and I don't know what's unclear is quite different. So he refers to the amendment to Article 2, I repeat once again, in which the government of the Republic of Croatia is replaced by the words of the ministry responsible for education. And I reminded myself that the same thing happened with the Education and Education Agency because the rights and duties took over from the Ministry of Time. So, what's the problem? Always that famous efficiency as an argument for everyone. Okay, if there was a load, it's also necessary to confirm by empirical or descriptive indicators. So where are the concrete arguments of overloads that make us even think about this type of efficiency and concrete arguments that this will make it more effective. So, material Indicators, not our impressions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61447	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61448	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, although I was going to discuss in my individual debate about something else somehow I am here with these so far exhibits both in the name of clubs and individual debates, somehow rerouted me. I need to remind myself of the crumb, the crumb itself, so let's call it history so that we can establish a general quality system in the Croatian education system and the history of promoting and reviving the idea of external evaluation in the system of education and education. So I'm going to remind you that the Law on this National Centre was passed in 2004 and I'm going to remind you that as early as 2005, state graduation started with its first year of examples, the application from when we're here for many years to today we follow everything that happens with national prom. We follow its implementation in practice and try to improve by me, for example, by following, following events that are related to the results and passing of state graduates from individual classes to two levels, higher and lower, I think we should think about joining up more and lower levels from certain subjects even to one because in practice, the students are going to take us to a lower level and then go further with it. But it is, therefore, going further to write down, but it is something that can be thought of on the basis of the results so far shown, and ultimately trends on the distinction between and efficiency or operationality when it comes to the functioning of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education as a public institution very important and very relevant I have spoken through replicas, so maybe I will even talk about it. With the emphasis that it is very important to distinguish independence and efficiency and not to push through the the thesis on the loss of independence of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education. What I need to stress is also the fact that when it comes to the system of education and education, this government has actually done very, very much even in its own heres in this second term if previous mandates were to be summed up and more and twice as many as some former governments. I will just remind myself, for example, when it comes to the construction of schools, reconstruction, construction, energy reconstruction, the construction of new schools that we had recently had in the Law on Education and Education a provision that no money could be used or spent from the state budget, the financial resources for the construction of schools, this particular government has removed that provision and only for the transition to full-time teaching in the coming years under the multi-annual financial framework will allocate EUR 300 million from the funds plus additional funds from the state budget. Over 500 kindergartens have been built in the last few years, scientific centres of excellence, centres of competence in vocational education, the status of teachers, teachers, professors has been improved. Let us not forget that 10 years ago, in small regional schools in the interior of Croatia, we were heating on wood, on a smoky stove. Today we're acting completely different. Competence centres in the field of vocational education, only in 19, and '20. 250 million kuna to encourage craftsmanship. Scholarships, only in '18, '19. The year 260, 26.7 million kuna, as opposed to 2014 in 2015, when 1.7 million kuna was allocated. There's a lot more to be said and said, so here's the time that limits me, so I'm gonna end up here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61449	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61450	I see the subject is no longer a center but the success of this government, I will sum it up in a simple argument. The fact that we have received the greatest aid in Europe in the Resistance and Recovery Fund shows that we are in Europe's most invisible situation or that we need the greatest help and that is all the success of this government. However, I'm going to ask you something else. So there's a completely unclear correlation between discharge and power. If there is a burden, and obviously there is a burden here because these legal changes want to relieve the highest body of the executive or legislative authority, please refer me to the empirical or descriptive indicators, since for these legal changes that confirm this burden and how this burden will be reduced by changing powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61451	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61452	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So, the first part of your replica in which you believe that the topic of debate from the national centre has been reduced to the debate on the successes of this government I will only say, so from that part of your replica is really revealed your regret that you are not part of this government and that your political option is not part of a government that does everything that contributes to the development of education in the Republic of Croatia, not only education but also a system of science, so when you come to a position to be part of the government, then you will be able to show what you are doing, what you intend to do, and how much financial resources you will be able to withdraw from the EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61453	Thank you very much. A colleague, Selak Rasudiæ, has broken the Rules of Procedure, and what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61454	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. There's one conclusion here that I'm unhappy that I'm not part of this government. I am unhappy, but not because I am not part of this government, but because this government has put us in a position that we have to withdraw the largest EU funds we will not know how to spend again, which will be the responsibility of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61455	Thank God we pulled them off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61456	Thank you, let's not... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61457	So, yeah, you're right, I'm unhappy, but the only reason I'm happy is because I'm not part of this government and the ruin that we're falling into.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61458	Thank you very much. Uh, I'm assessing that it wasn't the injured Rules of Procedure, my colleague said that you were unhappy, you admitted that you were unhappy, I'm sorry that you were unhappy, and I hope you'd be happy. Uh, thank you very much. We have the next individual debate of the respected representative, Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61459	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Director, Your Honor, Let us return to matter and agenda, so the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. I will begin with the sentence "who doesn't understand the essence of these technical amendments to the law and the reason to facilitate the functioning of this institution then neither has run a public institution nor knows what the daily work of a public institution means, whether it is national, county or local". We have heard here such a level and a quantity of flossules that we subject the agency to the ministry, to put it under our paws to the ministry, that educational institutions in Croatia are never more miserable that they are reduced to epidemiological centres and a series of other nonsense that absolutely do not contribute to understanding these amendments and supplementing laws, nor do they know what it means to run a public institution. The ministry or government, however, so the ministry is an integral part of the government, the council is the body that the government comes from, there is not a single institution in the Republic of Croatia that gives this high house consent to the statutes. And when consent to the statutes is thus a daily and administrative job is not completed. Director Filipovic must, after obtaining consent to the amendments to the statutes, and institutions often amend the statutes because they comply with the law, comply with activities that either until they register or with some new activities, must go to a commercial court. It was not once the case that the proposal to amend the statutes of a public institution was sent back to the trade court for further processing because something nomotechnical or something that did not suit the judge on that day was not passed, so the implementation of the statutes. What are we going to do every time we return the statute here to HS, which is the difference between the government and the ministry? The government is meeting once a week, the minister works from 0-24 and will, of course, be at a disposition to all directors of the agencies that are part of the ministries, such as the component of the ministry and this national centre because it has a position in the budget, which is precisely what the ministry is. It is not the exact information we have also heard here from colleague Rasdic that this government has done nothing for education. This law strengthens, strengthens and gives more effective mechanisms to the national evaluation centre. In a few minutes, the presentation of the Law on adult education begins, at a time when adult education due to the economic situation, due to changes in the technology of work, because of new occupations that were not at the time when we were educated, we must also regulate these things and enable us to have a quality legislative framework and opportunities not only for employees, but also for employees to requalify. My colleague Bedekovic mentioned that we had district schools and even some of the parents who did not have an adequate heating system, this government, using funds from energy efficiency funds, restored almost entirely all primary schools, energy-renewed them. How much effort has the ministry made in building a kitchen that children attending both primary and secondary education have a decent cooked meal, some have not had it at home during the week, how much the government has allocated funds for requalification programmes, how much of the programmes in line with market trends this ministry has proposed to enter the experimental programme. The latest video game technician in both Sisak and Novska in the county who suffered very badly, so I don't list the assistants in the course, how much through the programs we have allowed for those children who need it to have help in the follow-up. It's the easiest thing to do here is to sit down, lift up the board, take out the floscule, and think that it's something you've accomplished. Not to quote Arsen Grandpa's experts for everything, experts for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61460	We've got multiple replicas. Sorry, we've got the first breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what my colleague Bace has done. No, replica, good. The replica of the respected representative Bajs is the first respected representative, Selak Raspoudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61461	However, let me put you out of your misery, give me just one piece of information about how much this government has set aside for education in relation to all other EU countries, so it'll be clear to everyone, but you've brought out a lot of interesting things. Ministry or government anyway, great, what changes if it doesn't matter? Secondly, obviously, the Parliament and the Government, however, you do not respect the basic principle of the trio of power, I understand that you are subject to authority, and de facto of this you are challenging the monarchy. So democracy is unknown to you. And the second thing we've learned is that the government is not working, that part of the unemployed government is the ruling majority of the unemployed but once a week, unlike the ministry it works. So, congratulations on what you've said. But my question is very specific, my colleague Bedekovic avoided the answer because she doesn't know. Give me concrete empirical indicators of the correlation of discharge or/and powers, or why would this system be more efficient? Specific indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61462	A respected representative, Bedekovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61463	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think he's hurt. 238. The Rules of Procedure, given that the esteemed colleague Raspoudić manipulates my name by not giving her an answer to her question because I don't know, and I made it very clear to her at the beginning of my reply to the replica that I would try to answer all her asked questions through the replica, and because I didn't arrive, it means a time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61464	Thank you. You know that's not a violation of your rules of procedure, so you get a warning. Dear Representative Selak Raspoudić is the same Slowly, slowly not yet the replica you haven't arrived, now the injuries of the Rules of Procedure they have the advantage unfortunately. [[Invader Chicken: Replication response.]] Unfortunately, we have a Rules of Procedure that can do anything and everything. Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has a breach of his rules of procedure. [[Intruder Chicken: I can stand, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61465	Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians. My colleague Bedeković manipulates me, and I did not ask her questions, but I made a conclusion about the government, the only question I asked her was this same question about the concrete material indicators of the effectiveness of what this law would bring, and my colleague Bedekovic did not give me an answer. The only logical conclusion he could ever make to me was that he didn't know. She could now answer in this injury to the Rules of Procedure if she knew.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61466	Of course, and it was a replica, you get a warning. I beg you to stop this literal abuse of the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure has actually become a substitute for replica when you are unable to replicate, and you have so many opportunities to speak in all possible ways in the form of replicas, in the form of a final speech in the name of the club, in the name of everything and everything. Please don't do this, don't abuse the rules of procedure. You insist on the injury, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61467	I insist, thank you very much. I will risk a second warning to inform my colleagues and colleagues and you, Mr. Vice President, as well as my colleague Raspoudic that I have no intention of continuing to engage in a bad fight with her in order to use him for political purposes such as my colleague Rasludic. Thank you very much. I have no intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61468	Well, you're getting, of course, a second violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you nicely to make sure that the third injury means taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Now I'm going to ask the respected representative, Chicken, to finally respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61469	Thank you very much, Vice President. I understand democracy very well, I have been a participant of all democratic elections since 2001, unlike my colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I have enjoyed the majority confidence of my fellow citizens, those who have chosen me and have been given the opportunity to behave in the duties I have also run for. Meanwhile, among my public duties, I was also in charge of education on behalf of Sisak-Moslavina County. I know very well what the work of the institution means, I know very well how often the amendments to the statutes are, I know very well how long this procedure is going on, and I explained in my opening statement that the ministry works from 0 to 24, it is much simpler, much more efficient that the NCVVO is also using the possibility that all administrative and legal affairs should be done with the Ministry of Science and Education not with the government that is sitting on Thursday, and so it is also valid for consent to the statutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61470	The Republic has a respected representative, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61471	Thank you very much, dear fellow, I will refer to that part of your individual debate in which you have spoken, and I think it is good, about the importance of seeing the difference between independence and efficiency, and I will agree with you that, in such a way, the procedure and the process of adopting the statutes as, as the most important document of one institution can only be spoken by the person who has never worked in any public institution, has never conducted an institution and does not know the procedure of adoption and of these most important acts, but also other data and simply does not know how to manage a certain institution. And in that sense, they cannot agree with the thesis, the withdrawal of the thesis on so-called loss of independence of the national external evaluation centre due to the fact that the regulation of the adoption of the statutes has been amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61472	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Voice. And forgive me, answer, the answer of the respected representative, Chickenic, before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61473	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I wish everyone who discusses this law had the experience I'm talking about. So, you constantly have situations that educational institutions change the statutes. You want a concrete example so high school in Novska, which requested amendments to the statutes, asked for the consent of the founders of Sisak-Moslavina County and asked for the consent of the Ministry of Science and Education. It's the same procedure that lasts, but much less than going to government and parliament. The parliament therefore appointed a government, the government appointed ministers to resolve. He can't ask a parliamentary representative here in the assembly so that we agree on something and then he can play the minister. However, it is necessary to obtain the majority trust of fellow citizens, to get the mandate to do certain public affairs and, of course, to carry out those same in the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61474	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61475	Thank you. My dear colleague, you've called us here to criticise the law of experts for everything, experts for nothing. So you give me now as a great expert explain how you can decadently claim that these are technical amendments to the law? Yes, in the section where the Institute of Education is changed by the term of a resolution agency in education, that in the section where the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is changed to S without a clutch. But first, compliance with the Labour Act is no technical change but legal harmonisation. Secondly, the very fact that you are introducing an assistant is not a technical change, but a political and financial issue that will cost our taxpayers a lot of money. Also, the regulation that the report on the work of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education has been submitted to the government and HS so far will be submitted to the ministry, it is simply not technical, nor financial, nor legal, that is, madness, crazy change. Why? Because so far they have not been able to submit this to the government or to the Committee, and this law does not prescribe what kind of repercussion this is, meaning this illogical change. So I don't understand how you so expert can claim that these amendments to the law are technical, they're all just not technical.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61476	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61477	Dear colleagues of the Voice, so you did not listen. I repeat, do not quote the Croatian poet, nor have I qualified you, it is not mine to qualify you, whether you are professional or not. I choose very carefully the words I say behind the pay phone. I haven't been in the public sector since yesterday, I would never give you such criticism, nor collegiately, nor politically, nor any other, but you've heard what you wanted to hear, so be it to you, my intention wasn't that. This law is essentially a technical law. One job you're saying in the assembly is that there will be repercusions to the RS budget. So please be aware of the responsibility of carrying out information here, therefore, which means assistant director and what kind of repercussion it will have. So it's technical harmonisation, every institution, most institutions in the Republic of Croatia have a director, so there's one or more assistants, deputies. And therefore... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61478	My colleague Glasovac, the vice president of this house, has broken the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61479	In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 238, because Mr. Representative is currently insulting my common sense and not only my common sense but everyone who listens to us right now. To say that what this law is is just so technical because it introduces the place of one, one assistant. Well, that is nothing to you, yet another in the land to which you are accustomed. And who's gonna pay for that? Not you, Mr. Representative, from your own pocket, but from the taxpayers. Here's my risk of getting a heads-up right now, but really here I feel subjectively as if Mr. Hurts my, my common sense, and I had to raise this institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure and injuries. 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61480	Comrade Voter, you like, you as vice president of the assembly should at least know that it's not really a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61481	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My dear colleague, so you are in your debate, part of the debate concerned the praise of the government's results, legitimately. So everyone looks at the results of this government with their own eyes and you look at everything that's good, and you know that life hasn't started with this government and that some things have started much before. But since you've decided to thank this government and the way it invests in schools, kindergartens, school reconstruction, kindergarten, energy efficiency, I'm interested, I'm sure you have this information, so it would be good to hear it, so since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, it's been a year and a half since the earthquake in the Sisak-Moslavina County you come from, and what you know about well, it's been a little bit less, but that means it'll almost be a year. How much during this time did this government restore the school in the City of Zagreb or Sisak-Moslavina County to its effectiveness, speed, and relation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61482	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61483	Thank you very much, Vice President. I wish my colleague, Glasovac, had led the same policy when she was assistant minister on employment, then she would have been convincing. My colleague Mrak Taritash, so we are not here for questioning, and this is not a Millionaire quiz, so that we answer to each other's numerical indicators, which we do not have at this time, nor do we own. What I want to tell you is that this government has done for Sisak-Moslavina County both before the earthquake and after the earthquake of millions of kunas has therefore agreed to rebuild in the territory of the town of Novska, the municipality of Lipovljani and Jasenovac all the way to a school facility. To make school kitchens that all children have cooked meals at least 3 times a week because some do not even have it in their own homes. If we talk about the data then we will arm the data and see how much your government has invested in Sisak-Moslavina County while you've acted as minister and how much of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61484	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Byce.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61485	Dear President, you've indicated a few things in your presentation. First of all, changing and supplementing the statutes is a very difficult thing. I would point out that we also expect those who run public institutions in the Republic of Croatia with the support of professional services within the institution itself, lawyers and others to actually change the statutes in the Register of the Commercial Court should be no problem. And that it doesn't depend on the Trade Court, you've indicated that the judges they have I'll say bad day even though it may be a judge and judge so let's be more careful about that little part and that actually means that there's a trade court or judge bad day, so nothing. They operate under the law, the judiciary has its obligations, and those who submit amendments and supplement the statutes must act in accordance with the law and there is no reason not to carry out the procedure. So that's why I don't see why I'd be for... And another thing if I can. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61486	Dear Representative Chickenic. Thank you. Thank you very much. Your time is up. Please, you can't talk. [[I just want to say one thing.]] I mean there's some order, I know there's rarely any of you in this assembly, but let's take a look at the Rules of Procedure, please. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Here's your colleague, Chicken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61487	Thank you, Vice President. So this was a plastic example of experience. There are institutions, I don't want to appoint a Commercial Court here who has made a decision where at the same level of public institutions one provision of activity in a public institution can pass for one public institution, and another judge cannot pass. Don't make me bring up specific cases here now, so I've been saying this from experience, confirmed court practice, so a kind of activity at the same level of public institutions can go somewhere, somewhere not. And then, of course, it depends on the Director, so when he gets consent from the Founder, whatever he's called to go into the other procedure of harmonising the Statutes with the Law, that that Statute is verifiable in the Commercial Court and that, in accordance with that approved statute, he can carry out his activities for which he was founded, and we have such cases as you will. If you want, I'll make an example, and we'll go one case at a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61488	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the next individual debate, and that will be the respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact that this government has a problem with the independence of institutions is not news. Let's just remember the impact on individual defenders, so the amendments to the individual laws so that by not voting the report in the Croatian Parliament, individual lawyers or lawyers of the shift will be brought to the attention of the Croatian Parliament. So let us remember the problem of the independence of the Committee's institution to decide on a conflict of interest, etc., obviously the National Centre for External Education has come in turn. And it wouldn't be any newspaper if we didn't have another agency in another system of higher education and science, which is the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which also through re-accreditation provides quality and in some way indirectly values educational institutions in higher education which are actually the founder of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the Croatian Parliament is the one who elects members of the Governing Council, president plus 7 members. Only one member of the board of directors gives the agency itself from the ranks of workers. Why? So because it's logical that if we have an independent institution that cares about external evaluations, about ensuring quality, which is founded by a state that needs to be independent, then it's logical that those who run that agency still have some kind of control over it. And that the agency eventually delivers to the state regardless of the government, the Croatian Parliament or the Ministry as an extended arm of the instructions for improving the quality assurance system. I'm not saying that these agencies are superior to the Ministry, and this Agency for Science and Higher Education, and this agency National Centre for External Evaluation of Education needs, in fact, from all of those findings from which it comes through comparative analysis, research carried out, which the agency itself participates in, for example, this Teams for primary school students or PISA or at national graduation or when, in future, national standardized exams. So all this is expensive to collect these data, to make certain comparative analyses, and on the basis of which the ministry first proposes steps that should lead to the improvement of the education system in certain segments, and so this system should function and I don't see what should be controversial about it. It is another issue that we unfortunately do not have any basis or even research, and even a report on the basis of which we can say look, we need to amend this law because things don't work out for us, that and that and then we could discuss it here, but how do we know when this same centre hasn't submitted a report to HS or the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture for years, so that we can see from that report where it counts. Why are six departments and three services that are currently operating at the national centre itself perhaps not adequate, we cannot change them by the basis of the existing law but should put it in the statute? What kind of job does that assistant director actually need, what's the problem with that? In what way are we going to carry out some of the processes that have been put in front of us, which we have for years, which is that for students who finish vocational schools, and they want to pass through the higher education system, they are in a different, unfavourable position compared to high school students who are in some way preparing for their graduation because it is a sort of finality for them that the students of vocational schools are not? How will we ensure better compatibility of the national centre through external evaluation with the part carried out by the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education as some sort of separate system? It values in some way a system of vocational education, but it's not the world to itself. The NGO should in some ways be a roof institution and for that part of education, etc. etc. There's a lot of challenges in front of this agency. There's a lot of questions. This is one of the key institutions, and I'm here when Mr. Tihomir Oreshkovic came up with the idea that we'll join the agencies and say no, not all agencies are the same, we can't just look at it that way. We can discuss it, but the NCVVO has a special status and must have a special status and it would be good if its special status and how much we appreciate it, we value its work and its potential should be seen in the proposal of this law, and unfortunately it is not seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61490	Thank you very much. Before we continue, allow me to welcome to the diplomatic gallery the delegation of the EU House of Representatives Committee of the Parliament of Romania led by the chairman of the Committee of Mr Stefan Mussoiu and, of course, accompanied by his Excellency, Ambassador of Romania Constantine Michael Grigori. Let's say hello to them. And here we have a replica of your exposure, the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61491	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. So, you started your presentation and talked about the independence of the institutions and the importance of them being independent. Indeed, what every government has has some topics and something that characterises, and here it characterises that it does not want to continue to have the independence of institutions. What are they affecting? They influence you to be better, they influence you to be corrective, they make possible other things that you don't in this system. But no, we have changes to the law that puts it in someone there niche and irrelevant. We're all going to declare that education is important to us, that children are important to us, that it's important for us to get quality education, but when we come to reality, then we actually see these changes to a law where we don't really want to open up and have an open mind. put it in some little closed thread. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61492	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61493	Yes, it is a great shame for all institutions in Croatia, and especially for the NCVO because we will not, as I would say, do so by Minister Divjak simply abolished the essay as a mandatory commitment to passability in the Croatian language exam. And what did we get? Maybe we got a little better results in the short term from the state's graduation for a year or two days from the Croatian language. But have we strengthened and worked on the literacy of Croatian citizens? Have we worked on objectivity and an objective picture of what we have to face in the system? We didn't. It's just a small example of what we're doing and this law, we're changing things, and those things that matter what we need to discuss as a parliamentary committee, maybe a Parliament, it's a report on the work of the NCVVO and the future of the work of the NCVVO in terms of improvement. quality of education. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61494	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61495	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of HS. Here at the end of this debate I will repeat once again the basic reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the NCVVO Act, so first of all, since the law has not been amended since 2004. It was necessary to bring it in line with the relevant legal rules adopted in the meantime. And also another reason in the implementation of the law in practice was to see certain shortcomings that needed to be corrected through these amendments and additions. Among the most important issues that are dealt with by law, above all more flexible as a more flexible solution, the centre itself will be able to make its internal structure and adapt it in the best way to carry out tasks in its jurisdiction, introduces the position of assistant directors who have not existed so far, and it is necessary, therefore, to perform the tasks of the centre more effectively, and is not a reason to invent another new management post than to increase the efficiency of the work of the Centre and of course, the conditions for the operation of assistant directors and its affairs are determined by the Statute of the Centre, compliance with the Labour Act, so the selection of one member of the Board as a representative of the workers of harmonisation with the law and what was most disputed is foreseen that the prior consent to the Statute of the Centre instead of the Ministry of Science and Education. Why? Among other things, it has been noted that the most legislative and representative body, or HS, does not give consent to the statutes as a fundamental and general act of any other public institution with powers at national level and, in that sense, the proposed solution also constitutes a discharge of the highest legislative body, or HS. And the last thing that was quite slow was, therefore proposed in individual debates, a proposed solution under which the rights and responsibilities of the founders are carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education rather than as so far by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will make it possible, above all, to carry out tasks more effectively and more effectively from the centre's work. So once again, I will point out and repeat that this proposal is really not about trying to disrupt the independence of the centre but rather about the exact opposite impact on its efficiency. Finally, I will repeat once again that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61496	Thank you. The next final presentation will be on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, and will be addressed by the honourable representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61497	Despite your cacophony that you tried to create by conspiring that something had flossule because I have to shock you at HDZ, it's not something of a flossula because you said it was a flossula, it's something flossula if there's no argument for the same thing, and when I offer arguments, I always do that, then it can't be a flossula. So despite your cacophony that you tried to create here when you went ad hominem instead of focusing on the content, I did not forget what I asked you both to do to my colleague Bedeković and your colleague Piletić. I've both asked a simple question, since you don't critically support these legislative changes, you can certainly answer the simplest question, the simplest question, and that's where are the indicators of ineffectiveness of the previous law, which is why it is necessary for the rights and obligations of the founders to be transferred from the government to the ministry, and then this derogation of the parliament and everything else, where are the indicators? Neither colleague Bedeković, and she has had several opportunities, and especially now in the final address on behalf of the club of MPs, nor did you give your colleague Piletić the answer to the simplest question, which is that if you go through with the legal changes then give arguments why they are needed. You did not provide any concrete facts, you did not give arguments as to why these changes were needed. So, the only thing that we can conclude from that is that first you don't know what the situation in the system is, although you're trying to force yourself to create the impression that it's different, and the second even worse that the arguments are probably not even there, but there are other reasons, hidden by the notion of efficiency that is going into such legal changes, legislative changes are a very serious thing. One of the shames of this assembly is that we change the laws as many times as we have the law. Every law, here's the Restitution Act, here's the third amendment. So, how many times, how many times do every law for that, can't be messed with by law when someone comes to mind, at least you used it as an argument when we went through criminal law and you didn't want to condemn what the SDP was proposing earlier, and we all stayed together with them not to go obsessing about sexual harassment because you can't just scrutinize around the Penal Code. Okay, I agree, you can't just mess with the laws. Give us an argument as to why you want these legal changes. Otherwise, I can't think of anything other than that my thesis that I presented at the outset, and I pulled a parallel with the Education and Education Agency, which is that it's going to change. 2. where, directly from the government to the ministry, the rights and responsibilities of the founders are actually transferred to the Ministry are indeed led to the easy euthanization of the independence of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. So I haven't forgotten what I asked you, and I haven't forgotten that you haven't answered the only question that matters when we bring any legal changes, and that's why, where are the ineffectiveness indicators and b) indicators that this system will be more effective? It's not a question of someone's impression, it's a question of concrete facts, how many decisions do we have on the lager that can't be implemented because of the current law? You didn't give those answers. And I will remind you only my colleague, Pilletić, since you have so self-lovedly claimed here that you, unlike me, have received the trust of Croatian citizens, that you received 1937 preferential votes and 3,48% on your list while I received 9270 preferential votes, so five times as many Croatian citizens here represent me as you do. Such figures should not be important, but at a time when you are self-absorbed by getting the trust of Croatian citizens as opposed to me, which, by not focusing on the arguments, reduces the importance of what I'm talking about, is probably important and reminding how much you, your character and the work of your citizens' trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61498	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Piletic, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61499	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm giving up on the Rules of Procedure because otherwise I'd have to see If you allow an explanation... [[Thank you very much, I appreciate it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61500	No, no, as soon as you gave up, I appreciate you giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61501	So, I gave up because otherwise I would have to realize that the more self-loving representative of Selak Rasdic I have not met...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61502	I appreciate you giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61503	...but that would be a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61504	Dear Representative Bacic announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in which he was injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61505	Thank you, Vice President. Art. 238., demeaning and insulting MPs, I just want to congratulate my colleague Rasudiæ on every vote she has won, it's commendable, it's great, I hope the next election won 20,000 votes, but if we continue to take offense like this, if you keep counting, this institution will remain at 2.3 support of this voter overall regarding the rating... our work. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So continue to insult... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61506	Okay, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. Now we're going to the final presentation on behalf of the motionor. Dear Secretary of State Ivica Šushak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61507	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. It is my obligation to remind and shed light on certain facts. Namely, the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education on 17 June 2021. He sent this tall home a report on his work, so it is not true that this report has not been sent to date. You know, they used to say "empirical" here a lot or... the experience data on the problem of functioning. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to inform you that three to four years ago. The National Centre for External Evaluation of Education had 20, more than 20 employees through the Workers' Agency, had no employee secretary of the institution as a lawyer since it was a highly demanding and legal business, given the protection of the confidentiality of data, the organisation of the whole, the whole job. Furthermore, he had no Head of Finance of the Centre because the provisions of the Statutes of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education as a basic instrument were prescribed that the Head of Finance must have a 10-year experience in education. And it was impossible throughout that period to find a repeated repeat of the public procurement of employees with such, such experience or to meet such conditions as are prescribed by the Statute. With regard to the letter of the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as to the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, it is clear that during the period when the executive power was exercised by a party whose member was a respected representative, Glasovac was also an attempt to amend the statutes, but also to amend the provisions of this law which corresponds well to today's amendments and additions. The national centre unfortunately has such an impression in public as to be a sort of unwanted child. Why am I saying that? Because it introduced a zero-tolerance rate on corruption in the education or higher education system when it comes to classification and admission of students to public universities. It is a demanding job that is based on the implementation of the State Graduation and there is direct cooperation between the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which has been mentioned so many times here today, but also the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. The National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, you will successfully see it on the network of all networks, had a whole series of problems with the implementation of the state's graduation in financial, public procurement and organisational technical affairs around the state graduation organisation itself, which brought the indictment of the first director of the National Centre, but also made a final judgment on the work that was put on him, and later also to the perpetrator of the duty that inherited the first director of the Centre. So these are also data that say that something was not good in the structure, in the area of power and in the way of functioning of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education as a public institution that has powers at national level. State graduation at its core and be not only implemented by the national centre but also done by our high school and high school which organises the conduct of the state's graduation, and it is along with demanding epidemiological measures and recommendations to our great pleasure this year. It should not be forgotten that the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education is not only organising state graduations for students from the Republic of Croatia, but also for students from abroad and especially for Croats from BiH, but also from other neighbouring countries where Croats are located, as well as persons who are returnees from abroad, which also further complicates the work and work of the National Centre itself. The question of assistant directors is simply a matter that speaks of the effectiveness of work if the comparative analysis of public institutions at national level is also taken into account, so we can only see how many of the agencies mentioned above have positional positions of assistants or deputy directors who speak sufficiently. The analysis of the data on employees in the centre can see a permanent drain or decline of the number of employees, primarily due to the inability to change the basic general act for whose data exist, the data exists in the archives of the centre itself, but also in the Ministry of Science and Education which took part in attempts to amend and supplement the statutes through different governments, and not just this one. All of this sums up to the fact that the treatment and importance of the national centre has not been properly valorised in view of the role that the law and decisions of this higher home have been given to it, and therefore it is necessary to implement these amendments and additions to the law that will enable it to work more effectively. The issue of the independence of an institution, division, tridivision of the authorities and the dependence of the state authorities themselves as well as the institutions whose founders are themselves is simply something that shows both the practice and the empirium. The Agency for Science and Higher Education as well as here often mentioned really controls quality or values quality in the area of higher education. On the other hand, we must not interfere with the fact that a good part of quality control is carried out by public universities themselves that accredit their own study programmes, so this issue of addiction and independence is also questionable. We also have the fact that the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education had a changed director, and then the acting director. In the period after that, it was changed and only, and only the administrative council of the centre, so it is not a matter of independence or protection because the data so far has been saying from 2004 until today that it was simply a matter of jumping up certain problems in the work of the centre. With this in mind, there was also a response to the post-festum to try to correct the procedures and jobs in the external, external evaluation of education. I would once again thank you for this still constructive debate because definitely this is how the national centre came into focus and you respected MPs and MPs, but also the fact that its activity is precious. I also mentioned this when I first read it because not only does it conduct the state's graduation but it also values it through national exams of students' institutions as well as their teachers. In May of this year, national exams will be conducted for students of the 8th grade of primary schools, and in October 2000, in May of next year, and in October 2022 trials will be conducted for national test exams for students of the 5th grade primary schools. Also, there are preparations and so on. National Prosecution Procedural Procedural Graduation. Since we have changes to our curricula and curricula, and since we're going to go first mixed then 2023 a brand-new, new national prom with a new concept. With this in mind, we also have a commitment to prepare for the comprehensive care of the Croats in BiH, help and preparation of educational institutions where students attend, in Croatian and on the curriculum and programme to enable them to prepare and capture, and catch this step with changes that are in the structure of the state's own graduation. Here, I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61508	Thank you, we have two replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61509	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, after the first reading of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, which is your primary committee and representative, Glasovac, had an observation that working experience as one of the conditions for directors of the Centre could also be achieved in science to limit it to a system of education and education. So, and your parent resolution board. You didn't accept it, and you're in an explanation like that, so formal answers why not. Why didn't you accept that? Why, in this way, did you not give in importance and importance because this way you will not have any argument when a competition is likely to happen one day for something else? It seems to me that when it comes to certain specialist topics, and here it is about specialist topics that would make it be a condition and a reason. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61510	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61511	Thank you very much. I believe that you know that the National Centre for External Education has the status of a scientific organisation or institution that has passed the demanding process of accreditation for scientific activities by the Agency for Science and Higher Education and has a license for scientific activities in the field of social science, not the branch, but the field of education and not the field of education. The conditions of university graduate and undergraduate or integrated pre-graduate and graduate studies as well as the necessary experience in the field of education and education represent a sufficient framework or sufficient assumptions to select the best person in such a contest. The conditions of science or the conditions of scientific activity have been laid down in view of the fact that the centre itself owns as well as the fact that it has been established Unit. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61512	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61513	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, it is indeed a great pleasure for me to inform us that the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in June 2021 has sent you to the Assembly building obviously your report that is due to be sent every year. Now there are two key issues, first for a few years he sent a report because, as far as I remember the last 3 years, that report that needs to come specifically to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, we need to discuss it means that it has not been discussed. And secondly, if it's been sent, so maybe it's got legs, we don't know where there's now food in the Assembly cafe, a restaurant in front of the Baška plate, so someone can locate it and guide it to where some people sit, and it's the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, so we can discuss it nicely in accordance with the law for at least this year if it's sent for this year. He needs to see where his legs took him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61514	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Šushak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61515	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For the past period, it means for the previous school year and for the previous implementation of this national graduation. With regard to the receipt of letters, postal shipments and this domestic cyclical traffic in this high home, I unfortunately cannot give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61516	That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the next point, which is: - Proposal of the Law on adult education, first reading, P.Z. Number 168 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah, right? No, I don't. All right, then go ahead. Dear Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak. Here you go. Here's even your replicas before you came to the pay phone. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61534	Thank you very much, Vice President. Apprenticed MPs And MPs, I didn't immediately realize that you're actually asking me if I have anything to say about this point, of course we do because we have a draft of the Law on adult education, so if I get stuck somewhere, you're going to keep warning me about these protocol things. [[Intruder: You can take off the mask, you can take off the mask.]] And I would like to say that you have a draft of the Law on adult education and that the 2007 Law on adult education for the first time has been organised separately by the system of adult education in the Republic of Croatia. The Law on Professional Education, the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, the Strategic Education, Science and Technology and other strategic documents at national and European level were subsequently adopted. Therefore, the need for a new law to be adopted in order to bring the adult education system into line with the normative strategic framework and to remove the shortcomings identified during the application of the existing law. However, it is particularly important to stress that the new Law on adult education is being adopted in order to develop a quality adult education system that will encourage citizens to participate in lifelong learning because it is a prerequisite for developing a competitive economy. In Croatia, in recent decades, the involvement of adult Croatian citizens in education has not been satisfactory. The results of the adult education survey conducted by the State Statistics Institute in 2016 showed that 31.8% of adults participated in some form of education, while the EU average was 38%. So this research is conducted in five-year periods, there are some indications that it will be the next interval of 2 years, but we'll see. Recent strategic documents adopted at EU level particularly highlight the major role of adult education in the process of recovery, green and digital transition and the creation of a solid and resilient European society and economy. The Council resolution on the strategic framework for European cooperation in the field of education and training in the direction of the European area of education and beyond, so from 2021 to 2030, published in February 2021 in strategic priority 2 stresses that lifelong learning must become a reality in the EU and that by 2025, at least 47% of the adult population must participate in education. Furthermore, the 2030 Action Plan for the European Pillar of Social Rights states that 60% of the adult population should participate in education each year. For this reason, Member States are called on to create quality, passing, flexible and inclusive adult education systems because only such systems can encourage adults to engage in education and to develop skills that will enable them to face rapid technological social and economic changes. In its strategic documents, the Republic of Croatia also stresses the importance of adult participation in lifelong learning, but the importance of investing in the adult education system. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan of the third education, science and research component listed an increase in the number of adults participating in lifelong learning by concentrated investment in programmes relevant to the labour market. It is also said that the increase in investment in the skills and education of Croatian citizens and in their lifelong learning is a strategic goal of the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. – 2024, which envisions 5 billion kuna investment in the modernisation of the education system, which will help build stability, sustainability and resilience. It is noted that better integration of vocational education and training with the labour market is planned to be achieved through further development of regional competence centres and by increasing the range of adults involved in lifelong learning in line with the European Skills Agenda. The following one of the key objectives that the Republic of Croatia needs to achieve in the next period is to increase the number of adults participating in lifelong learning, especially those with a lower level of education. This will also achieve the goal set by the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, which is to equalise the rate of participation of adults in lifelong education with the European average. In order to achieve that goal, it is necessary to adopt this law which will make the adult education system a quality and which will encourage adults to participate in education because only in this way can the economy ensure productivity, resilience and progress, provide an individual with a better position in the labour market, higher social status and personal well-being. From this point on, it is clear that more significant changes are needed in the adult education system in order to make the system effective and to achieve one of the important objectives set, which is to increase the number of adults participating in education. In accordance with the new legislation, adult education will include the implementation of formal adult education programmes to qualify at levels 1 to 5 of HKO except for programmes belonging to a higher education system and the implementation of formal programmes for the evaluation of learning outcomes and the allocation of qualifications at levels 1 to 5 of HKO except for programmes belonging to a higher education system. Furthermore, as the alignment of the programme with labour market needs concerns the market situation strongly points to the lack of compliance of labour supply and its skills with the needs of the economy, which was manifested in a relatively high lack of necessary labour. Under the existing legal solution, institutions are given a solution to the implementation of formal programmes for adult education of unlimited duration leading to the implementation of programmes which are materially obsolete and do not meet the needs of labour markets. For this reason, the obligation to comply with an education programme which acquires qualifications with the qualification standard of the HKO registry shall be laid down. Furthermore, the institution is required to coordinate education programmes within 6 months of the day of the change in the standard of qualifications in the HKO registry, thus ensuring the relevance of the programme in relation to the needs of the labour market. Ensuring the quality of work of institutions in the current legislative solution there are no mechanisms to ensure the quality of implementation of education programmes or mechanisms for ensuring the quality of work of adult education institutions and therefore a quality assurance system for adult education institutions covering internal and external quality assurance systems is introduced. The internal quality assurance system is set up by the institution itself, and as part of this system, it will regularly implement the processes only evaluation. The external evaluation of institutions is carried out by the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, which, after carrying out the external evaluation process, provides a solution to the assessment of quality levels that can be, very high, high, satisfactory and unsatisfactory. The quality assessment will be made publicly available to participants in advance and will be able to assess which adult education facility provides quality and relevant education. The following, funding through vouchers, to raise and strengthen the skills of the workforce within the IPO, provides for the development of a voucher system or model for the acquisition of the skills of employees and unemployed persons, i.e. reskilling or upskilling in accordance with the needs of the economy which will enable this law. It will be ensured that any person who, due to lack of skills, cannot find employment or in the absence of skills threatens the loss of an existing through education acquires the opportunity to be competitive on the labour market. The Voucher system will fund educational programs for skills needed to work and for persons employed and unemployed. In order to ensure the relevance of the programme, only educational programmes based on the catalogue of skills from the sub-registration of the standard of interest developed through the HKO and registered in the HKO register and evaluated in the relevant agencies will be financed. For the purposes of the voucher system under the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, an amount of 300 million kuna and the participation of 30,000 users is foreseen until 2026. The maximum cost of an educational programme covering an individual voucher is 10.000 kuna. The emphasis will be on the quality of the programme, which should allow sustainability and employability. As regards the recognition of informally acquired knowledge and skills, the application of HKO in a new legal solution also enables the introduction of a learning outcome evaluation programme to enable the evaluation of previously acquired knowledge and skills in accordance with the relevant standard of learning outcome set in the HKO register. The recognition of previously acquired knowledge and skills both of those acquired by informal and informative means and of those acquired through the formal system but without completion, appears in European education policies as one of the main instruments of lifelong learning. The evaluation of previous learning opens up opportunities for certain knowledge and skills to become recognized and recognised by the evaluation process. This contributes to improving the employability of individuals and creating a prerequisite for continuing their education. The idea that competences acquired outside the education system are formalized and thus learning becomes the most visible is the convinced benefit of recognition and evaluation of informal and informal learning. One of the fundamental principles for the development of a system of recognition and evaluation of previous learning in the Republic of Croatia, which is also respected in this legislative proposal, is the same value of the qualifications allocated with the informal learning evaluation process and those fully part of the formal system because the evaluation process will be identical to the evaluation procedure applicable to the test of knowledge and skills in the formal system. This legal option on the one hand will enable the acquisition of a public instrument to continue education, and on the other hand the acquisition of a qualification that allows for employment, retention or promotion in the workplace, and all without attending an educational programme which will significantly shorten the time needed for education. In order to ensure the quality of this evaluation process, only those institutions for adult education that are assessed in the external evaluation process by a high or very high level of quality, and the evaluation programmes themselves will continuously comply with the qualifications standards in the HKO register as well as education programmes. Furthermore, the National Information System for adult education, etc. The monitoring of the work of institutions through NISO is also introduced, so adult education, which will include data on programmes, participants, teachers, public documents issued and the financing of accredited programmes. It will also enable the monitoring of the implementation of the programme or the collection of data on the types of programmes implemented in their territorial representation. These data will be very important for the labour market, i.e. employers and all stakeholders in the adult education system. The NISO will also contribute significantly to the administrative discharge of the system as all relevant documentation necessary for the issue of expert opinions and solutions will be stored in the system and the submission of applications for institutions will be much simpler and faster. Finally, the new legislative solution will introduce, we are convinced, significant changes in the adult education system, mainly in the area of harmonising education programmes with labour market needs and ensuring the quality of the implementation of the education programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61535	Here, we have a few replicas. The first one is the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61536	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor. The new Law provides recognition of informally acquired knowledge and skills for which there is a need on the labour market. But everyone should know the difference between formal and informal education. Here we come to the political and economic qualifications of working on less and more complex work. More complex work should have a higher price, but we know that in practice it is often not so, let's mention professors. Among other things, based on labour market needs, less complex work or knowledge can be obtained through informal education and it is possible to change several times during the working life. But that's not possible with more complex work. What a perspective revaluation is based on the needs of the labour market, whether the planned funds are sufficient or whether citizens in practice do not accept re-education but go into and find other solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61537	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61538	Thank you very much. Yeah. I think the data shows that we are well below the EU average on how much our citizens accept or do not accept at all the idea of education in any way, let alone being involved in lifelong learning and education. That's right. It is precisely the idea of this Law to encourage people to this very process, on the one hand, on the other hand, that we are going towards the opportunity to value both formal and informal knowledge, so what they have acquired during their lives somewhere, some skills, some, through some courses that are not so formally recognised, and now it will be possible to formalize them and recognise them, of course, under certain conditions, and also informationally acquired knowledge, so some skills that man has simply done somewhere, adopted during his life span and thought that they might be able to use on the labour market, so that also, in one place, through these institutions, this qualification, so called. Information education and we believe that this possibility will encourage people, citizens, to greater inclusion in this process. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61539	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61540	Thank you, well-respected secretary of state, this law seeks to define a quality assurance system in adult education, and one of the elements of this is the external evaluation of institutions. Now, explain the article to me. 25, in particular Article 3 which states that external evaluation is initiated by the Agency on the basis of the Annual Plan for the implementation of the external evaluation of institutions at the request of the institution or if there are reasonable reasons for this. What are the reasons? How will this be done? Whether it will be someone's application of the non-quality of the program, competition or something like that, because here's a public consultation to read comments that some institutions actually carry out programs by system pay and carry a diploma, so please explain to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61541	Yeah, right. You're right. This is why we are going towards a system that will make it impossible to manage exactly this way, and therefore we give, therefore, to the roof agency for vocational education and adult education, an assessment of the quality of work of institutions, which is based on their work and on the basis of the proposed plan, so their action plan of work will be evaluated and will be able to be valorised at a higher level over the year. Now, what are all these reasons, I would have to look at it myself, but it's allowed by this bill that in the case of observed anomalies in this sense, that it can be reacted and that, ultimately, institutions that do not comply with what will be provided for in this law are also sanctioned. If that happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61542	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61543	Since the same agency in charge of developing an adult education system can also be the one to be evaluated externally or why it will not do so by the NGO whose job description it is. That's my first question. And the second question, since adult education is of paramount importance, and also, according to what is stated in the law description, is there any need to respond to labour market needs, is there any information in Croatia about the deficiting interests, on the basis of which this ranking list of deficiting interests has been adopted in the first place, because my political question, since we are also implementing EU policies here, is we going to implement adult education according to the needs of our labour market or are we going to create additional people to respond to the needs of the European labour market?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61544	Thank you very much. Here, as far as the first question is concerned, the decision was to be the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. Of course, this is not a uniform process, but will have to, based on documents, have the Ministry request and receive an opinion and will then seek the implementation that will be controlled. The decision is and it is foreseen by this law to be the Professional Education Agency, so that this second part may be a logic, I understand the intensity of the question, we can think and see what can be done given that this is the first reading, but the Professional Education Agency is at the heart of these events and it is responsible for what you asked. As far as deficit professions are concerned, of course they are not put in their minds here because in this system of vouchers that provides for this law, we predicted that by analysing the standard of professions and sets of competences entered in the register of HKO which defines the list of 80 deficits with an emphasis on digital... Skills, it is a link to the EU's demands you asked, but it is, but it is in agreement with what we need anyway. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61545	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61546	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, so which situation do we have at the moment regarding adult education? According to the data provided by you, we have 600 institutions dealing with education and they are implementing more than 11,000 programmes. And Croatia, according to Eurostat for 2020, is the proportion of adults, from 25 to 64. At 3.2%. Of course, thank God for Bulgaria and Romania, and then they're above us, Slovenia's about 8.4 and you said in your explanation that the desire to reach European space is also a desire. So now we have 600 institutions, 11,000 programs and we're at 3.2. What are the elements of this law that will be the key for us with those 3.2 moving up, which will actually allow adults to really be educated and what we need, and that is what we need, we need a new workforce with new jobs that are currently being sought on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61547	Thank you very much, I understand, of course. I think that when reading this bill, the whole intensity is that we are going to activate the population on one side so that it is educated that there is no intensity that what they are going to be educated in is actually being competitive outside, that they are going out to us, of course it is not in our interest, but it is also quite clear that it is unacceptable to have 600 institutions, 11,000 programs, believe every day I sign new institutions with new requirements that allow for unlimited work, very small formal needs they have to meet the conditions for adult education. 14 years old. The law has not been amended, we are going to change it, we are going to improve it, I think it is absolutely necessary, and that is how we think and raise that percentage, or go towards the average of the European, EU. Of course the given target is in this year and time... as stated here in the document, and we believe that this law will encourage precisely that difference that you talked about in the percentage of the average that both the government in Croatia and the EU will equalise, to catch up to it... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61548	Next replica, the esteemed representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Yes, changes are necessary, you need to raise the quality and level of education and some normative, at least they minimally even at the level of all universities. But the assumption is that a large number of universities will not have the educational power to catch a step at least in the beginning and it will probably be necessary to organise their educations, or professional seminars, etc., is there any framework in which at least some time, and perhaps longer and more resorient agency and resorient ministry will provide assistance? Thank you very much. And support, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61550	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, of course there is, we have foreseen by law a whole series of mechanisms in which it will be able to meet the conditions that even an institution can do the job of adult education or even those that can be ranked by 4 basics of quality. Of course, this will affect both the programmes and this whole series of other issues, which is related to it and of course the introduction of an Andragogian leader, or the specifications that a person requires in order to become a person, must also meet enough talk about the seriousness of what we are dealing with here and what we want to achieve by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61551	The next replica is Urša Raukar Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61552	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is important that this law binds education programmes to the Croatian qualification framework, i.e. standards of qualifications from the Croatian HOK registry, not to be longer now, which means that education programmes will continuously comply with labour market needs, and this is a very important change in the practice that has been done so far when programmes have been able to be implemented for years without any harmonisation obligation. However, we must stress one thing, and that is that the provisions of the laws relating to this will not be fully implemented in practice unless the standards of qualifications are entered in the HOK register. There are currently 12 qualifications standards listed in the register, so please explain to us what you intend to do about it so that the law can indeed be implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61553	Right, right now, you're right, thank you for asking, Your Honor, it's 12. We also imagined this system to make it as flexible as possible and more resilient. Of course, life will bring about the need for new knowledge and new skills, and this system allows them to be implemented and that they are constantly upgraded and constantly updated through the register of this qualification framework. And we think that in fact there is, in fact, a day that qualitative possibility of actively identifying in time the new needs that are being opened on the market with new interests, with, with, with a world that, with a world of work that is growing rapidly and is looking for the need for new skills, and that's what we're supposed to do here, and that's what we're going to do with this law and we're going to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61554	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61555	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State one of the papers in the law is the introduction of funding adult education through the voucher itself. I'm interested in the criteria regarding the award of vouchers whether we're going to tie them to a specific individual per person or it's going to be a system that the state and the ministry will recognize the deficiting professions, which we need in that current labour market. We know adult education and education is very important and because of the rapid technological changes themselves, because of the major changes in the labour market itself. So it wouldn't be bad through the strategy itself, but also certain regulations, but also to hire someone in the ministry to monitor what they finance because it will be also not small funds and a kind of good incentive and support especially for unemployed and long-term unemployed older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61556	Thank you very much for this question, Your Honor. Yes, of course the voucher will be personalised and, of course, since the use of vouchers via NPO itself has been applied by the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, and because of the implementation activities, we must act inter-sectorally inter-sectorally, we will have knowledge and mechanisms of control as well as of how it is consummated. And as for the very technical, the way the vouchers will be able to use will be an application platform on the sites of HZZ and each user will be able to register individually, afterwards find the skill offered to him, in which he wants to improve, will explore the existing education programmes in which he is located and will then request an offer from the educational service provider. The demand for a voucher will be on the HZZ pages all the time, then, at each step, HZZ advisers will be at his disposal to guide him further. The value of vouchers 10,000 kunas maximum value and after the approved application may proceed to the selected education [[Intruder: Time.]] Those who are already employed will be able to be paid. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61557	The next replica honours MP Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61558	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Paljak, therefore, this law, among other things, as we had just had opportunities and heard, creates assumptions for the realization of the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, and I will not say spending but investing 300 million kunas for additional adult education, which is employed by the unemployed from the beginning of 1.4 next year at the maximum amount of up to 10,000 kuna which the person who wants to further hone his skills, or upgrade, will be able to use as you just said through HZZ. Now, apart from this crucial paper that will greatly improve the Croatian labour market, but also the economy in general, which is the ultimate goal, I am interested in what are still the capital papers of this law that will greatly improve adult education under this new Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61559	Thank you very much. That, apart from the fact that there are vouchers, they assume the possibility of funding co-financing dependent on the complexity and severity of the programme, which is chosen, of course, that this law allows the absolute possibility of being financed through budgetary means, whether it is national or regional. In addition to the voucher, we believe that the most important quality of this law is the fact that insufficient quality of adult education institutions has been observed. As we have said, this harmonisation is constantly in line with the needs of the labour market. It will now be possible to recognise the information and informally acquired knowledge and skills, I think it is very important and given the observed discrepancies with the recent national and European strategic documents we are working to bring them into line. For 14 years, a hole in which there was no law and changing the Law on adult education speaks for itself enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61560	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is commendable that the financial means or resources of Croatian taxpayers will be used for the cost of education, and here is how the law lists foreigners on permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia and third-country nationals who have a temporary stay here for the purpose of working. But I'm asking you a specific question, in case 3,000 Nepali or 2800 Pakistanis apply to the funds, how you will do them, or how you will rank them in relation to Croatian citizens, because this is not what the law says. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61562	Yes, thank you very much, by law are the prescribed ways in which foreign citizens, in terms of the need for our labour market, can exercise rights, and of course they can have those rights, in which the scope of this will happen at the moment we do not know. So we have experience before, these are not some great demands as far as we know, but the truth is the law will be applied and will, of course, be linked to everyone and those who will meet the conditions to consume anything of this law regardless of what basis they will definitely have on it, to that right. Of course, the most potent learning of the language is the mastery of certain skills that are primarily related to the language barrier, and then, of course, to what is related to itself, with the very character of the work it will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61563	Next replica, respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61564	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State here, as we have heard from the data currently available in Croatia, we have about 600 adult education institutions with over 11,000 different programmes. In your opening statement, you yourself said that we have a present and visible trend of new programmes that the ministry issues without restrictions, and that in fact we are not sure and we do not have developed quality mechanisms of these programs for which solutions are issued, and what I find very important and valuable is one of the important innovations of this law is the introduction of a quality assurance system for adult education institutions, through the introduction of an internal or external evaluation system, so through the self-evaluation of institutions or external evaluation of institutions by the agency, which will really establish quality control mechanisms. I wonder if you believe that by introducing a quality system, it will introduce order into both the number and quality of the institutions and then the number and quality of the programme?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61565	Yes, thank you very much. Of course we expect it and we are actually going towards it, this situation today is unsustainable, not only four levels of quality, and only two of the highest levels where the institutions that will have it will actually be able to share documents and qualifications, but the constant control of what the market needs, and in that sense, the whole range of new innovations are there from the conditions that need to be met in terms of employment of people, contracts defined-undefined, which are standards of qualification, how many teachers to a certain number of these qualifications that are being done, so the whole series and other possible situations are foreseen by this law, and I think that all of this together will contribute to one much, much, much, much more quality and much more life-saving to say so to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61566	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61567	Thank you very much. Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The labour market is one of the most complex and most sensitive markets, the primary problem almost every country in the world is the problem of unemployment of a labourable population. We cannot boast of the current education system that it is at some envious level, so I welcome raising the quality of adult education programmes, better system flow, facilitating access to qualifications. But my question is, how much will the adoption of this law speed up administrative procedures and yet prepare the participants for the labour market and adapt them to market conditions? We are aware that already the labour market is crying out for some interests, and at the same time we have a large number of unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61568	Thank you very much. Of course we're going to speed up because we're going to do everything in one place because we've got this so-called thing worked out. It is not a system that will immediately see or detect, in real time, those that have been reported and which are programs and will report immediately if there are any outbursts, some anomalies, etc. I think that this fact itself through that digital platform will allow us to be administratively much, much faster and much, much more efficient and more flowing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61569	The next replica is the respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61570	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, you've said one amazing fact, which is that so far there are no mechanisms to ensure the quality of work of an adult facility. We conclude he was doing whatever he wanted. Do you think these mechanisms that you predicted would give effect to the expected effect since there is that we have a completely unsettled system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61571	Thank you, Your Honor. There will certainly be effects, whether they will be as much as we want and as much as we actually point out by the proposal of this law, we will see it in practice, but only because of the facts of this accumulated mess that you have said yourself, this law will be corrected safely that it will be and will be already, in the first implementation of the law, be very, very clear and very visible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61572	The next replica honours Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61573	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Based on this law adult education can be carried out by an institution established exclusively to carry out adult education, a high school school school school as well as an institution that performs other activities along with adult education. Now, my question to you follows what about legal persons registered as companies, whose primary activity towards the NKD is that of education and teaching? So I'm talking specifically about foreign language schools that are not institutions but a company, and they provide a foreign language teaching service in line with the common European foreign language reference framework. Does the application of this law mean that such foreign language schools as we have known so far go into history or is there any other solution for them?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61574	Thank you very much, Your Honor. No, no, it does not enter safely, and of course in the history that these schools you are talking about are registered as tropical societies do not restrict or prevent them from being registered or registered as institutions among other things and that, as such, when they acquire all the necessary qualifications to be registered for the purpose of carrying out these activities, they can do so, in that sense, the law does not provide for restrictions and a lot of foreign language schools that you have mentioned but are also in addition to the fact that companies are registered as institutions to carry out these activities that we are talking about, so that this law will not be an obstacle in this sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61575	The next replica, the respected representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61576	Reading this law made it seem to me that the most important achievement and desire to just make a key cut to the recognition of this informal education, however, I am afraid it is declarative not to see it sufficiently from the law itself. What I'm trying to say is that this three-and-a-half-a-half-lifetime information would have been much better if we'd valorized so far to value the knowledge, the skills our people have. If there is no change in philosophy that excludes monopoly on education, it gives educational institutions and if we stay on a matrix that lasts only 2,000 years, and millions of years of people live on earth. If we don't realize that Infobip, a Roman, I don't know Ericsson produces such knowledge that they disseminate these knowledge among their workers, if we don't realize that every good crafter learns the daily skills of knowledge that aren't registered anywhere, we've missed actually that key message and the idea that was the content of this, this intensity. So, transferring to the Ministry of Labour to the Competent Ministry of Labour of these issues, I am afraid it puts into a second-rate role exactly the meaning and important informal information education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61577	Thank you very much, I understand, yes, but we're trying to make this particular example that you've talked about, fantastic examples of the law allow it to, of course, under certain rules because we all have to go to the state, and here we're talking about HKO that this register is being changed, that what has proved to be saturated is no longer there as a need to move out, that these new skills, new skills are being put in there and that in this way we're more pro-pulsive. Exactly what it will look like will be seen in the application of the law itself, of course, but I think we are on the trail of this law just to not limit ourselves to or the Ministry of Labour in this case because they will formally implement it through their application because it is written in the NPO and of course with the Ministry of Science and Education that must see how these processes go in order to react to what we talked about. But of course, a lot of the challenges you've opened will naturally be ahead of us when that whole implementation begins. We'll see, we believe we're Just on the verge of respecting everything you've said. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61578	The last replica, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61579	Thank you, dear Vice President. My dear secretary, of course, like my previous colleagues, I'm going to point out some of the moments in this law. I'm sure he's welcome because there's a way I'm going to express one of our need to bring education into line with the needs of the labour market. And I have to agree with my colleague Vidovic when I say that many of our citizens are regardless of their acquired calling and education many years ago, because when they finished high school or colleges tried really to learn new skills and new skills, and I especially point out this because one of the goals is to recognise formal and information knowledge and learning. I also support the fact that they have obligations and educational institutions to change and coordinate their programs as quickly as possible and the obligation to educate their teachers. We have good laws, but sometimes we make an appointment in practice. The question is, how long will this take? This application. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61580	Well, it's legally defined according to these documents that are included in the law in those weather trends that are listed on any basis and they are contained in it. The same thing as I said before, of course, that when it all goes into service together we will be more informed in some way and we will see in which direction it is going, but I think the law generally allows, and of course now it is not the case that it reacts at a given time and reacts in real time, which in itself when it comes to legislation is quite difficult. I think we're on the verge that because of the specifics of the problem we're going towards, according to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61581	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? [[Thank you very much.]] Legislative, Education, Labour, Pension System? If it's not there, then I'm opening up a debate. The first to discuss is the Application Club of Representatives of MOST, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61582	Several problems have already been highlighted in these replicas, so I will look back on them before I enter and discuss this legislative proposal. So one of the key newspapers, or most important things that this law adopts, is this award of vouchers, so one of the basic questions is who will even get these vouchers. In this regard, it has already been pointed out that we are currently witnessing a once-in-a-market chaos and the real question to which I expect and the answer from the Secretary of State is whether until now the approval of any adult education facility has ever been denied or how much later the institution has received some shortfall of its war on the basis of their indicators. Because I'm going to remind you that work surveillance is being conducted by consultants from the resolution agencies and educational inspectors. Therefore, we should not also have, according to the applicable legal provisions, as in the adult education market. So, in order to go into these legislative changes, we need to first hear what has been wrong with adult education and who is responsible for the chaos if it exists in the adult education system, and we will best know if we get relevant information about whether approval or approval has already been denied or withdrawn, based on the findings of an educational inspection. The second question that I have asked here and which we must not lose sight of when we talk about adult education is that they are deficiting professions, on the basis of which indicators we have received statistics on deficiting interests and on whose statistics we will carry out vacuuming or encourage deficiting interests to respond to labour market needs. Why am I asking that question? So here we could hear from the answer that this is about EU statistics. However, it is justified whether our needs are identical to those of the EU. If you are looking at the level of Croatia's deficit interest in what HZZ says then you can already see that the same needs are neither Zagreb nor Split. For example, in Split, they need boaters, they certainly do not need them in Zagreb. If you are looking at EU level, they are not the same needs of one Malta that needs teachers, one Norway that needs oil engineers. So, as Croatia's needs are and on the basis of which the criteria are made for decisions on deficits, one of the key issues to which we need to have a clear answer in order to primarily respond to the specific needs of our country, rather than blindly copying the needs of the EU, because in the end, we will have a problem in which we are already witnessing the problem today, and that is that we are exclusively some kind of human education factory that later finds their happiness in the EU market while we remain deficitous especially for these educational staff, especially in view of the staff in the health system. So, as far as these legal proposals are concerned, I must conclude that they show certain contradictions and open up space for the matter of hidden intentions that are intended to achieve proposed changes. Since the Secretary of State has indicated that it is open to dialogue, I hope that we will avoid these ambiguities in the second reading of the law, so that this comment on potential hidden intentions will become unnecessary. Namely, in the activities of the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education in Art. 4. The center law stipulates that the centre conducts external evaluations in primary and secondary schools, and I underline other institutions dealing with professional education and training. Already today, in this previous law reading, we have had a problem with the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education losing some of its independence to the proposed legislative changes, and now in this legislative proposal we have a problem with the fact that it will lose its power and part-time business. The details of the implementation are prescribed by the Regulation on how to use the implementation of external evaluation and the use of the results of the external evaluation of school institutions, which was adopted by the current old Minister Fuchs in 2011. The proposal for a new Law on adult education is set out in Art. 25. that the quality assurance process also implements the external evaluation of institutions and that this evaluation of institutions is carried out by the Professional Education and Education Agency of adults. That change includes a series of contradictions. The first is already visible in the same article. 25th of the 3rd century, the external evaluation shall be initiated by the Agency on the basis of an annual plan for the implementation of the external evaluation of institutions at the request of the institution or where there are reasonable reasons for that. What's that? In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 88th century of 2nd and 3rd and 5th. The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools in the section that prescribes external evaluation and self-valuation of school institutions writes, two, an annual plan for the implementation of the external evaluation of school institutions brings a minister. External evaluation is carried out by the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education and Five, the way in which the external evaluation is carried out and the results of the evaluation of school institutions are used is prescribed by the minister. In the activities of the Agency for the Professional Education and Education of Adults in Art. 4. The Agency Act prescribes that the Agency participates in evaluation, self-valuation and external evaluation procedures in the system of vocational education and adult education. Therefore, if approved programmes and curricula are implemented in an adult education facility and for secondary schools, why would the Agency carry out external evaluation if the law had already established an independent institution for the evaluation of school institutions, which is the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education. In a simplified manner, the same agency cannot develop a system of adult education, and then externally evaluate it, according to that people's cadium and sue, cadium and judge it. So if it really could work, then what would be the purpose of the State Audit Office and similar institutions? So, I'm afraid we wouldn't go by that logic that nobody really cares about what's going on in the education system, so that there's a way to hunt in a blur here and get the funding of the state budget for external evaluation. In fact, adult education is one entry area, which is courses, certificates and turns a large amount of money. I'm afraid the Ministry of Science and Education has a certain change of thesis. Instead of issuing guidelines for work based on fieldwork by agency experts, the Ministry shall administratively and legally evaluate the activities proposed by those guidelines, the Ministry of Science and Education shall use the Agency for the implementation of its decisions. In this respect, agencies are solely working towards the policies of the ruling ones, which should not primarily be their activity. I must also mention that the Law on Education and Education in Art. In the 22nd century, 1st century, regular students are enrolled in the first grade of high school until the age of 17. Law on adult education in art. 17. He defines that the adult education student may be a person who is 15 years old. life and meets the other conditions set out in the programme. Is he then a member of an adult education institution who attends a high school program a regular student if he has entered the program at 15.? So this is just one in a series of examples of non-consistency of correlation provisions. So what is crucial and what I will end up with is that we need to keep an eye on the work of institutions in part and we cannot have institutions overlapping with each other in the area or avoid the work of certain institutions such as the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, the external evaluation of education when we talk about adult education. You can't be sued and tried, can't be evaluated by the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, who develops them later and evaluates them. I'm sorry, but for such a degree of self-criticism, no one is capable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61583	The next debate is on behalf of SDSS representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61584	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Honorable secretary of state with associates. If you walk through any city today or perhaps some larger village, you will encounter an adult education facility. Since more than 600 are registered in the Republic of Croatia and more than 11,000 education programmes are implemented. At one point, these institutions came down as mushrooms after the rain, and it was a matter of prestige in which such an institution would be opened next. However, to define the definition of what was said by the General Conference of UNESCO in '76. that the concept of adult education is defined in such a way as to include a set of all organised educational processes, content, level and method regardless of whether a person continues or replaces started education, develops his skills and expands knowledge or improves his technical and professional qualifications. The crucial problem of adult education in certain segments can be identified with education of children and young people, which is a question of quality. We have heard that the proposed law aims to ensure quality and effective education aimed at the needs of individuals and labour markets. However, the current problem is that all quality checking and meeting conditions practically ends with the issue of a solution by the Ministry of Science and Education. So, the moment the institution comes up with a solution for the implementation of formal adult education programmes, it has resulted in an unlimited duration. Unfortunately, this has happened, it has actually led to, and happens to implement programs that are methodologically and materially outdated, and sometimes not in line with changes to the regulations in certain areas, and yet many programs do not satisfy the necessary quality levels. However, I said something about this level of quality and non-existent quality-setting mechanisms, and I must say again that it is unimaginable that there are actually no quality assurance mechanisms for the implementation of the education programme and no quality assurance mechanisms for adult education institutions. We've heard from the esteemed secretary of state that these mechanisms will be established and that he expects these mechanisms to give you the effect expected for him. In some cases very diverse programmes are implemented by experts on specific areas in which the programme applies, but not all are sufficiently educated in the area of andragogy or adult pedagogy. For directors of the institutions of the Andragogian leaders and teachers in adult education, adequate andragogical education is not prescribed, although they are responsible for the overall organisation and implementation of the educational process in an adult education facility. Given that many institutions implement an extremely large number of programmes from different sectors, material conditions for their implementation are also questionable in addition to human resources. It is commendable that the quality assurance system of adult education institutions will include an internal and external quality assurance system. The internal quality assurance system is set up by the facility itself, and it will probably make everyone great, we can expect that. However, something about external evaluation is certainly a visible shift, but there are some ambiguities, and the external evaluation of the institutions will be carried out by the agency at the request of the institution. What facility? Or if there's a reasonable reason why the predecessor said something about it. Following this external evaluation process, a solution will be made on the assessment of the level of quality, and an institution which is twice consecutively assessed as a non-satisfactory level, the ministry will permanently prohibit the implementation of approved education and evaluation programmes, and evaluation programmes, meetings, learning outcomes in order to recognise and evaluate previous learning will only be able to implement those institutions that have a decision by the Agency on a very high and high level of quality and a solution on the implementation of an education programme covering all learning outcomes that the institution wants to evaluate. The opening of borders and Croatia's entry into the EU has led to the inflow of a certain number of labour forces from abroad, and it is good that a new legal solution introduces the possibility of implementing an education and evaluation programme in one of the foreign languages in order to make it easier for these workers to be employed in the Republic of Croatia. It is positive that the pilot of a Voucher issuing project that would pay for additional education would start in 2022, and users who will apply for the Employment Office application will receive an indicative amount of 10.000 kuna. 300 million kuna for education of 30,000 adults until 2026 has been foreseen, and the intention is to reach the EU average in adult education by 2030 because, as we had the opportunity to hear at 3.5% while the EU average is 10.8%. It will also be excellent if we achieve these results, in any case it is commendable to secure funds and intending to educate 30,000 older people in the right way or to perfect their education if they so wish. It is true that the Republic of Croatia is not in an envious situation when it comes to unemployed persons and it is certain that the number of such persons is not negligible and one of the mechanisms for reducing the number of unemployed should definitely be adult education but it is necessary and necessary that it be quality because otherwise it will not serve a purpose. The key changes adopted by the new law are recognition of the informal and formally acquired knowledge and skills and the financing of lifelong education with a view to raising the quality and relevance of the education programme, which is why the SDSS Representatives' Club will support this proposal in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61585	Next is the debate on behalf of the club of representatives, the distinguished representative Vesna Bedeković.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61586	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the Education and Education Administration Mrs. Sherepac with an associate, so the Law on adult education is today ahead of us. I will remind myself that for the first time a separate system of adult education in the Republic of Croatia was regulated in 2007 when the original law was passed and after two minor amendments to the Law on Mobility and Programmes of the EU and the Law on the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults were made, and then after the adoption of the Law on Professional Education and the Law on the Croatian Qualification Framework, and later and after the adoption of the Strategy for Education, Science and Technology, the need for the adoption of a new Law on Adult Education was certainly demonstrated, which I believe and I am convinced to remove the shortcomings detected during the application of the existing law and certainly the whole system of adult education actually brought into line with legislative normative solutions and strategic proposals that I spoke of here a moment. We have already said, I will repeat that, according to the available data, we have registered more than 600 adult education institutions for more than 11,000 programmes and what is crucial indeed we do not yet have a defined quality assurance system to ensure quality and effective adult education. First of all, focused on the needs of the labour market, and we have already talked about the fact that we currently have one trend of issuing a solution to the start of work of adult education institutions by the Ministry of Science and Education. So with formal programmes that are of unlimited duration, the fact that it is really not a good team anymore is that these diverse programmes are rarely implemented by experts for certain areas to which the programme really is not sufficiently educated in the area of andragogy, and also for directors of adult education institutions and for Andragogian leaders and teachers in adult education. For the time being, the current law does not prescribe adequate andragogical education. And of course we have to bear in mind the fact that they are responsible for the overall organisation and implementation of the educational process in the adult education institution and it certainly is not, it is not good. So, what brings us a new legal solution? First of all, the law will include the implementation of formal education programmes for, adult education for the acquisition of qualifications at levels 1 to 5, so in the section relating to the professional special training of the Croatian qualification framework and the implementation of formal programmes for the evaluation of learning outcomes and qualifications also at levels 1 to 5 again in the section relating to the professional training of the HKO. And which, of course, are acquired by formal and informal education or informational learning, which is also an extremely important segment of learning is whether. What is important is standards and qualifications will be proposed in accordance with the rules governing HKO if, and of course, the Professional Education Agency will bring, adults, a professional opinion on the compliance of the programme with the qualification standard, while a decision on the implementation of the programme will be made by the minister responsible for education. What is great news is and extremely important here is the introduction of a quality assurance system for adult education institutions that will include an internal and external quality assurance system. Internally within the institutions themselves through self-valuation processes, external evaluation by the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education on the basis of the annual food plan, on the request of the institution, if there are reasonable reasons. I have heard in the debates so far the question that this process is run by the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education, I will withdraw only a parallel with the quality assurance in the higher education system where the same process is carried out by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, but this will be something more in an individual, individual debate. What is very important to me, and we MPs at the HDZ Club consider it extremely valuable is the fact that the new legal solution also proposes the right but also the obligation to continue to train teachers in adult education. Also the Andragogian leaders and directors, which is extremely important. And it is also not less important, and the fact that this legislative solution will regulate adult education which will include formal and informal adult education to acquire the skills needed for work, which will include organised forms of learning of unemployed and employees, above all with the intensity of focusing on gaining the competences needed for work, therefore for the labour market, and which will be implemented and financed within the work-related section of the Ministry of Labour and, of course, formal and informal adult education will be able to be financed or financed through vouchers, which we consider extremely important. The Vouchers will assign HZZ and what is very important is that it is already here, therefore defined or regulated that the criteria for the award of vouchers will be laid down by a regulation which will be adopted by the minister responsible for work, with the agreement of the Minister responsible for the economy, entrepreneurship and crafts and certainly by the Minister of Education. This rule is extremely important as a sublegal act because already here in the debates so far, here is the question of what will happen to the vouchers, on the basis of which criteria, who will assign them, as well as how. I think it is very important, therefore, to point out that this rule will therefore need and must set clear, clear criteria. And, of course, on the basis of all that has been said so far and the listed Club of Representatives of the HDZ will support here's a proposal for a Law on Adult Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61587	The next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Vice-President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, ma'am. He's a sherpast Schmidt. The SDP representative club will support the proposal of the Law on Adult Education, which the government has referred to here in the procedure. What is quite clear is that the objective among other things of this law is the strategic objective defined in the 2014 strategy of education, science and technology, which is the establishment of a quality assurance system in adult education, development of the process and system of recognition of informal and information knowledge acquired. And we are pleased that after certain wanderings, especially during the previous term of office during Minister Divjak, who in some parts denied, challenged, and even some decisions and laws disabling the education, science and technology strategy. I am pleased that her successor at the Ministry of Science and Education realizes that the documents brought by HS, especially by such a high consensus, which are a strategic framework for the development of a particular system also obliges factors, which in this case is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Science and Education. This law, as already stated in the opening statement of the Secretary of State, will allow recognition of previously informal and informational knowledge and skills acquired and, accordingly, the objectives are to fully comply with the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, and we all know the purpose of knowing that this is one of the most important instruments of quality assurance. The same way will now finally apply to the adult education system, not only in the design of the programmes but also in their implementation. In this way, I hope that we will achieve a second objective, which is to enable flexibility and functionality, and the quality of the labour market programme that will enable greater participation in the lifelong education programme, will simplify administrative procedures through the adult education information system, and will also be guided by the national information system that will monitor the work of the institutions, will contain data on programmes, students, teachers, Andragogian managers and funding of accredited programmes. What's a good step, we'll see how it will live in practice, it's funding through vouchers, the idea is good, but from idea to realization is a lot. What is a key major challenge for the ministry is to clearly target the needs and that none of these kunas, lipa, however you like, of these funds will end up in the wrong hands rather than end up in the right hands that will ultimately contribute to employment, but thus also developing entrepreneurship and economy. What is also important is that institutions will continuously comply with the standard of qualification from the HKO registry and for the first time a strong obligation is introduced, or a commitment to permanent professional training of teachers in adult education, but not only them but also the Andragogian leaders and directors. Likewise, I think as well as a pagan, but not only because of that, but also aware of the circumstances in which we live, I think it is necessary to provide an opportunity to implement the programme in a foreign language given the state of the labour market. The fact is that the most real of the independence of the Croatian state has been working on the arrangement and establishment of a system of adult education, which is only one small segment of lifelong learning, is that we may have missed in this previous financial perspective which has been available to us from EU funds, because we know that just the largest means have been directed into vocational education, to lifelong learning and to the integration of vulnerable groups in the EU system of education, which is one of the EU priorities, and the other is a link, a stronger connection between the education system and the labour market, because, apart from what the system of education prepares or in some way leads to, it should lead to the satisfaction of every individual's life for its unfetted functioning in his family, the city, society, but it is an unfortuned factor and that only one who is a healthy and an individual who can be satisfied because he contributes to himself and society and there is a system of adult education is very important. For various reasons, people opt for adult education, first of all because they are likely to have a higher chance of employment, one of the reasons can be personal or professional development, acquiring transferable skills such as the ability of critical thinking, further what I said and just now adult education increases social cohesion and promotes active citizenship. And today, no one should ignore exactly this permanent professional development if it wants to remain competitive on the labour market. The attention given to adult education is necessary in order to overcome the economic challenges facing Europe and meet the demand for new skills and persistent productivity in a world dominated by digitisation. I would therefore once again stress that we support the adoption of this law, support the content and intensity of the bill's proposal, and in particular provisions relating to the definition of the quality assurance system as the first, second development of the system, recognition and evaluation of previous learning with the application of HKO and general harmonisation of the entire system with HKO and the provision of recognition of informal and information skills acquired. I hope that, in a painless manner, this part of which I have asked you about and in the replica, we have also discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture what will happen to foreign language schools which are registered as commercial companies in which a small segment provides education services or teaching foreign language in accordance with the reference European frameworks, because it was not clear whether they will thus remain outside of this quality assurance system, which would be unacceptable to make exceptions in that sense, or whether they will be asked to register in this section and subject to the law itself. It's not good when we do exceptions that we said when dr. Franjo Tudjman, it is not good when there is an exception in a system that is not subject to laws that should apply to all the same, which provide the same service so that it is the right way. And what I finally appeal to you as the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to work harder to promote the need for lifelong learning, to deal more actively with it, not only through the drip on the importance of adult and lifelong learning education but also through the support of employers through other laws such as the Labour Law and the Law on profit that should be related between others and this law, because in Croatia, in fact, if we compare Croatia with other European countries, where we are far, far below the European average where we are behind and where we are most concerned is just the inclusion of our fellow citizens in lifelong learning because when we look at the comparison of little parameters we are still according to Eurostat data from 2021. Only 3.5% of our citizens participate in the same kind of lifelong learning while the European average is 9.2% and it actually fell compared to 2019. Is that why this covid crisis, it might be that too. And I must say that we cannot possibly be happy with the fact that six Member States have only managed to achieve that outlined goal for all EU countries, which is 15% with 28.6% of their involvement, Finland 27.3, Denmark 20%, the Netherlands 18.8, Estonia 7.1 and Luxembourg 16.3 means they are above the European average of citizens' participation in lifelong learning, and on the contrary below 5% Romania with 1%, Bulgaria 1.6%, Slovakia 2.8, Croatia 3.2, Poland3.7, Greece 4.1 and Cyprus 4.7. We support this law and we hope that his life, his implementation, will contribute to getting from this lower part of the scale between six... so the worst ones are still a little higher on this scale itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61589	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61590	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The very view of this law, that is, of that last part of it, suggests that there were as many as 292 comments in consultation with the professional public or with the interested, which, of course, points to the great interest of the expert part of the public in this topic. I suggest that we try a little bit in a perfectly good honest intention to go through this first reading with some suggestions and comments. Let's go in order, right at the beginning of what it means, and I quote "increase the involvement of adults in adult education", obviously it's just a clumsy formulation, so I ask that the same change be made by the second reading is, of course, difficult to believe that this law will regulate the participation of children in adult education. The next important thing here is the vouchers, the vouchers as a financial instrument, allocating public funds to adult education students. According to the proposal, these vouchers will be used for formal and informal education programmes, we understand with the aim of easier access to the labour market, easier employment. Unfortunately, we heard we are already standing here at the beginning, starting Europe with a rate of about 3.5% while the European average swims between 9% and 11%. The new adult education law should officially become part of the education system of the Republic of Croatia, as far as we can see, the pilot project of issuing vouchers should start next year. Users who will apply for the Employment Service application will already receive a indicative amount of 10.000 kuna. However, it is worth noting here that, in addition to adult education institutions, adult education activities are implemented by other public law bodies in accordance with specific regulations, and it would be good for these programmes to provide for the possibility of funding of participants through vouchers. The criteria for selecting the competences necessary for the work and criteria for the award of vouchers to the participants of formal or informal education will be governed by a regulation to be adopted by the Minister responsible for Labour, but with the prior consent of the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, and by the Minister of Education. We are reminded once again as an opposition, and this law brings us into a strange situation where we are passing a law that is only a framework of more precise criteria and further ingenuity we are handing over to the authors of sublegal acts on which the assembly as the Supreme Legislative Body has no influence and we consider it extremely bad. Speaking of vouchers, allow me to step out of the topic for a moment and ask future authors of legal proposals as well as the authors of this to try to use terms from the Croatian language standard. Although the words "woucher", "cupon" or "bon" have become part of daily speech, and come from other languages, it is doubtless that the laws should contain Croatian words. I suggest that, in these cases, languageists are also consulted. As far as adult education teachers are concerned, 18. Teacher employment obligations are prescribed at full-time, depending on the number of participants and the number of education sectors. Since adult education institutions have different founders, such a provision could put some of them in an unequal position because of organisational or financial opportunities or inability. We certainly advocate here to facilitate the employment of teaching staff on work contracts. Without a doubt adult education and lifelong learning, and retraining represent the reasonable needs of modern society and... The willingness of individuals to accept changes was both social and economic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, there are many things that are tempered and slow or in no way change and we continue to create surpluses qualified in certain professions, we lack many important professions and professions, some even of strategic importance, as we have seen a terrible lack of medical staff at the time of the pandemic. It is worth supporting the monitoring of adult qualification standards in accordance with the regulations governing the Croatian qualification framework. The proposal is to recognise the previously acquired formal and informal knowledge, and the practical skills of the students who will be checked by the three-member commission, which speeds up the process of gaining a new qualification. What must be important to emphasize, in art. 22. in pages 3 and 4, the education of adults with disabilities is mentioned, and rules on how institutions are obliged to ensure reasonable adaptation of methods and forms of work. Quite a broad interpretation, it does not indicate who should bear the costs of these adjustments. Employment of disabled adults is one of the best ways to involve them in an equal life that they absolutely deserve, and I believe that this article should be upgraded to more precise provisions by the second reading. Art. In the 35th of this law, the period from 3rd g shall be prescribed. from the date of entry into force of the law, until then institutions may implement education programmes based on previous solutions. It seems to me that our legislators are very happy to use this term of 3 years. Which we hear in almost every bill of law, in this case he would suggest that that deadline be reduced. And here's to repeat one more question to Mr. Secretary of State, in Art. 30. It is said that the state or taxpayers will provide funding for the education of adults for Croatian citizens, citizens of Member States of the European Economic Area, as well as third-country nationals or foreigners on permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia, persons who have been granted temporary stay for the purpose of working in the Republic of Croatia, and persons in accordance with the law governing international and temporary protection. So, at least to me, pretty foggy. I would not say that only here will it be about learning Croatian or that these programmes will also be applied to foreigners in order to learn our language and, of course, become more competitive on the labour market and can be employed at all. But there's still a question in the air. Will taxpayers' money finance foreign citizens' education so that they later go to better paid jobs abroad, primarily in EU countries or European economic space? I suggest that certain time clauses be installed here until the second reading, which would make use of the funding of adult education from the state budget, should be bound by a certain time frame, or by a period during which they must remain working in Croatia, and only after the expiry of that deadline can they go somewhere else. The most important question again remains out of the reach of this law because it is of course much, much, much wider, and it is, will we finally manage to create new jobs in Croatia or will we continue to produce educated labour for rich Western countries, will we invest taxpayers' money in new knowledge and competences of adults and the same person in our country, or will we continue to educate them and perfect workers and workers for German baustels, Austrian nursing homes and Irish hotel receptions? The situation could be compared slightly with the Croatian Football League, everyone wants to go abroad and solve existence with one move, and it is similar in the labour market. Our top talents have long been out there and hardly ever come back. Until we start creating new jobs, this law will exist, but it will practically have no one to function for. Let's remind ourselves that we are extremely deficiting, primarily in the medical and high-tech sector. These skills cannot be acquired within this system, the adult education system. So once again, we will support the adoption of this Law in the first reading, please, of course, that our suggestions enter into the proposal, that is, the second reading. By then, of course, all together, I'm sure that in this we're unanimous, we want an orderly state, a regulated labour market, well-ordered and educated adults with a habit of lifelong education and, of course, the most important thing, to live in a country where places and jobs for everyone, no matter what nationality, color of the skin, faith or anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61591	Next is the debate of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honored representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61592	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of a new Law on adult education is extremely important because, of course, in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to ensure a quality and meaningful education of adults that will enable each individual to have quality and accessible skills upgrades and acquire new skills. We live in a time that requires new skills from day to day, not only for the needs of the labour market but for the everyday life of each and every one of us, and for this reason we welcome the adoption of a new law that makes several significant positive changes. But we will also warn of some shortcomings because in the time to come, and here we mainly think about the recovery process and the digital and green transformation, the transition, adult education will be a driver for change, and therefore, apart from having to be quality, it must be flexible, inclusive and accessible to all. It is obviously not at this time because in Croatia there is an extremely low number of adults who participate in this kind of education. To be precise, in 2020 only 3.2% of adults participated in some form of education, while the EU average is 9.2%. The poor education structure of the population is in a clear correlation with poverty, and on the same, apart from quality education programmes for children and young people who are our social role in the future we can and must act now and lifelong learning of adults must become one of the priorities and simple reality in Croatia. In addition, the first principle of the European Pillar of Social Rights stresses that all have the right to quality and inclusive education, training and lifelong learning in order to maintain and acquire the skills of assistance that fully participate in society and successfully enter the labour market. In addition to formal education programmes, it is also important to support more strongly informal adult education not only in adult education institutions but also in libraries, local communities, associations, etc. because this is the only way we will make Croatia a society that learns to benefit individuals and society as a whole. To begin with, the Green-Left bloc believes that the state should participate more vigorously in the financing of lifelong adult education. Under this Bill proposal, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia provides funding for the implementation of the basic adult education programme and training for simpler jobs in professions, which unfortunately is absolutely insufficient. In practice, it is clear that public institutions which are primarily involved in adult education, therefore, are financed from local and regional self-government units, thus closing this vicious vicious circle, which is therefore the population of the weaker education structure living in poorer areas, whose units of local self-government do not have the means to invest in improving the education structure and, therefore, the role of the state in these areas is crucial for financing adult education institutions, so that it is not only dependent on the local community but also on the state budget being actively involved in the financing of these institutions. We then believe that precisely because of this clear correlation between poverty and poorer education, all institutions dealing with adult education should have a commitment to scholarship and, by socio-economic criteria, to scholarship people with fewer opportunities, to say directly, poorer, but, of course, by the criteria of excellence. In addition, institutions financed by public funds, education, of course, must not be charged, as provided for in this Bill proposal, but we believe that the law should also be clearly laid down and specific penalties for violating those same provisions, which we have not noticed that there are. Valuation of informal and informational knowledge and skills acquired in order to allow recognition of previous learning without attending the education programme itself is extremely important because it reduces the time and cost of education, and it is known that the first obstacles to participation in adult education are precisely lack of time and lack of financial resources. In addition, the system of recognition and evaluation of previous learning will improve flexibility in educational and career, how can I say, roads, vertical and horizontal passing and encourage citizens to lifelong learning and continuous acquisition of knowledge and skills. Namely, in Art. 16 We would say that this possibility is not fully specified, so we strongly advocate to make it concrete and thus strengthen this law. In fact, very concretely, whether it will be possible to pass exams, specifically tests for knowledge and skills, so programs that have been acquired by an information and informal way, here. On the other hand, this law fails to regulate and formalise the education provided by associations and other holders of informal education programmes. It is our proposal that such forms of education be linked to institutions that are the holders of formal education for adults, and that through this type of partnership, and through other adjustments mentioned above, adult education is made more flexible, inclusive and, of course, more accessible. Cooperation between associations and other non-formal education programmes with institutions of lifelong education would contribute to the expansion of the programme's beauty and would open up even wider opportunities for more citizens to improve their skills and skills, of course, on the labour market, as well as for participation in all aspects of social life. Education, of course, and adult education in a globalised world are a guarantee of progress, growth and development, and therefore, of course, should be priorities for both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the local communities in order to be more prepared for the challenges we face. Enhancing the quality of education and increasing the level of skills acquired I dare say are smart investments and an effective way to fight visible inequalities in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61593	Next is the debate on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the IDS Club, we welcome the initiative for changes that should raise the quality of the implementation of the education and evaluation programmes for learning outcomes, while at the same time allowing recognition of the previously informal and informational skills acquired. I won't be long, the bill of law is acceptable in most of its content, provided everyone in the system, including the Agency for the Education of Adults and Resort Ministry, is given maximum support and assistance all the time. As I have already received a reply in the replica, I will only repeat that assuming that a large number of universities will not have the educational power to catch a step will be necessary as soon as possible to organise many professional quality seminars, from a simple base to more complex things. If, from the very beginning, it goes into such an adjustment by providing the necessary assistance this concept could really be good. However, there are some details that we feel need to be further considered, may be a little corrected, and completed until another reading. The proposals are directly from the field, it is about high school institutions, which, along with regular education, conduct adult education. For those institutions that do not have a large number of students in adult education programmes, the revenue achieved would not be sufficient to cover all operating costs under new legal conditions, it may not be good to equalise institutions that conduct only adult education with secondary schools that conduct adult education in addition to their regular education and adult education. Staff and material technical conditions in adult education in secondary schools are unquestionable and it would be a shame to prevent these amendments to the law from further work and education of adults as part of secondary schools, which may happen in some secondary schools with this new bill. For example. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7. states that the head must be employed for full-time work, in Article 7. 18, further employment of another teacher is listed on full-time in two education sectors. However, if the number of participants is not large, there is no need to hire a full-time manager, as well as teachers because it cannot, it can't be economically profitable, it would actually be worth it only if the tuitions increased drastically, which would actually lead to the opposite effect of the desired because lifelong education would become even more inaccessible to people without employment who mostly enroll in retraining programmes to schooling and training. As regards working time for adult education, we suggest that employment may be based on the Treaty on Working towards Current Needs, in particular in some schools there is a significant number of teachers who do not have full-time in regular education and are exactly in adult education within the same institution supplementing their standards on the burden of adult education, which also meets the human needs of adult education. Here, in short, would be some proposals for an existing bill. We hope that you will consider them and consider them, and together with proposals from other participants of today's debate, here today I have heard a lot of quality of this debate, adapt and put into the bill itself until the second reading. In this religion, the IDS Club will support this bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61595	Following an individual debate, the first is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61596	So I think there are two questions that we should have an answer here that we can access in quality these legal changes. The first thing to be stated here is that the criteria for the award of vouchers referred to in Article 3(3) of this Article will be established on the basis of the implementation procedures for the assessment of existing competences of participants, and the need for the development of new competences, and then immediately in Article 5, the provider of formal and informal education shall be evaluated on the basis of the evaluation criteria in accordance with the regulation governing the labour market or other specific regulation. So, we need to see what needs are, as I have pointed out, and in the debate on behalf of the Club for the Development of New Competences, and on which we will then really allocate the money and in general develop a system of adult education in which we are very coughing for the European Union. So, of course, and the important question is what adult education involves. Are we here only talking about some professional professions or dominant professions and the need for retraining, or does this refer to additional adult education as enrollment of different courses of language already highly educated persons, etc., because it would be interesting to see in which of these segments we cough for the European Union and in general where we need the greatest shift. But the basic thing that bothers me under this legal provision is the inconsistencies of our laws. So, we now have one law that prescribes here that the external evaluation will be launched by the Agency on the basis of the annual plan for the implementation of the external evaluation of the institutions at the request of the institution or if there are reasonable reasons for that. This is this article 25. Paragraph 3. Except, of course, it's unclear that the reasons are justified and that it's not a rare practice for us to have vague provisions that allow manipulation later, because you're putting someone in a position of power to decide for themselves what would be justified, which is unwarranted. We have another law that prescribes otherwise, which is the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary school in the section that prescribes external evaluation and self-valuation of school institutions, where we have a situation where the Annual Plan for the implementation of the external evaluation of school systems is brought by the minister, and the external evaluation is carried out by the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, and the way in which the external evaluation is carried out. And... The results of the evaluation of school institutions are prescribed by the minister. [[You don't understand.]] So if the Agency participates in the evaluation procedures, what is its new role here in the system of vocational education and adult education means then why do we even have the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education? Is it logical and in line with the spirit of the law, so the legislator's intensities to enable the institution that will develop the adult education system to control and control the same system itself? I don't think that's supposed to be the intensity of this law. This is the first reading. We said we'd talk about it. Perhaps it is true that in the second reading we have some more constructive changes that will enable this type of behavior that can later affect potential malversion within the system to be disabled? So this is something that can still change. I really hope that the second reading will be different. We have said we have a principle problem that agencies are actually here as a service of the Ministry and works exclusively towards the Ministry's policy while the situation should be different, because experts in agencies should issue guidelines for work based on field work, and the Ministry should, in fact, regulate the laws that will then enable the activities proposed by these guidelines. This is therefore important in order to establish a system within which the Ministry also operates in relation to other nominally independent institutions, and we must not overlook this in the Law on adult education. With this really important law and one field that should not only be declarative in our interest, but where it is possible to make great and serious progress in terms of the education of our population and the quality of life of our population by enabling requalification in order to find a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61597	We have replicas. Nikola Grmoya first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61598	Thank you. Dear colleague Selak Rasudiæ I am interested in whether anywhere in the laws here we bring here in the Croatian Parliament, in strategies, anywhere to recognize the government's intention to adapt our education system to the situation on the market, deficiting interests and everything else? Can the Ministry of Education and, in general, the Government of the Republic of Croatia be recognised? I think that's a key question that needs to be answered by our education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61599	What I think when I look at these two legislative changes that we talked about today, today as a day for education, so all the laws are packed in the same basket as education is that there is no kind of systematic policy and a more detailed analysis of the need for the market and related legislation that will be in line with other laws from its own portfolio, but as if, as they choose, I don't know the cherry. So today this topic is important, so now we should point here, let's make the law, and then that law becomes one planet in the universe, and those other laws including the labour market and everything else that's connected to what's the prerequisite for the creation of these laws within that universe are other planets. So, they don't communicate with each other in any way, and that may be the biggest rule of law that is currently being passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61600	The next replica is the respected representative of Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61601	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you pointed out what I asked the Secretary of State in the replica. So Article 23(3) is therefore not defined which other legitimate reasons are, so I guess you'll explain this a little bit more by the second reading. And I'm also wondering if you have any knowledge of how these surveillances have been conducted so far and at what pace, because we also see from this public consultation that there have been any comments that some have never come to order? So how many are they even spent annually? What will be the annual plan? How many facilities are there going to be? So these are all questions for the competent ministry when the final bill will be. Here's a comment, and do you know how it's been done so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61602	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61603	What I know from the system is that supervision of the work of adult education institutions should be carried out by consultants from the resolution agencies or educational inspectors. However, what I have heard and should check that this is true is that so far no institution has been denied approval or what I have asked as a question to see how many institutions have previously been denied approval. Because there's been some kind of thesis here as if there wasn't a system before, and that's why we're having a mess on the market, and now we're finally going to fix it. There was a control system before, but the question to what extent it was used correctly and related to it is the right political issue unless someone had previously been denied approval because the system had not functioned. Who's going to be responsible for that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61604	There's an individual debate coming up. Dear representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61605	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Director Sherepac, dear colleagues and colleagues. I believe that it is unequivocal and that we will all agree that in fact adult education is an important segment of the general education system in the Republic of Croatia and that it is extremely important to pay great attention to the education of our adult citizens and in terms of qualifications, requalification, therefore the general concept of lifelong learning. And what I think is extremely important in the first place is that this Law includes both formal and informal and informative education. So different ways of acquiring knowledge and, as a crown, a final testimony, a diploma or whatever was called a final document on acquired competences for a particular sectoral area. What we have is the real situation that we have in Croatia today, so we really do have a trend in the number of adult education institutions, a trend in the increase in the number of different programs that have more than 11 thousand and the least said programs that are not exactly or can say questionable qualities. And I will allow myself to say that there is a little bit of a very, very messy system and the appearance of a gray zone, among other things, a gray zone that allows some such institutions to earn money based on non-quality programs, unquality lecturers and generally questionable quality of work. Of course, among all of them, there are fine examples of excellent open - minded universities and great institutions that do their job properly. And in order for everyone to do their job properly and in order to have criteria, of course we must have a well-designed quality management system or quality assurance system in such institutions. It has already been said several times, so I will not repeat that the quality assurance system is regulated by law in a way that establishes an internal and external quality assurance system. This is quite well worked out and, of course, based on internal and external evaluation procedures, we have a good basis for short-termness, you asked your colleague Marić and it is a good question of how many shorts, how, in which way we actually get there. This should be one good basis for short approval, therefore, to all those adult education institutions that will not meet the requirements laid down by law. I must, of course, say that the quality assurance process at one institution was indeed one long-term and never completed process, because as head of a higher education institution I was also in a situation to participate in self-valuation or internal evaluation, external evaluation of a higher school, and then the evaluation of a complete quality management system. And I think that maybe, not perhaps, but I am convinced, so the quality management system in this area of adult education can therefore be developed by analoging the quality management system in higher education. Because I think the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which takes care of quality management in higher schools, does it very well. By law, several details, the Law provides for accreditation if they can thus be expressed by analogy to the higher education system. Accreditation in institutions over a period of 5 to 7 years may also need to be considered. It's a pretty long time for me. Maybe I wouldn't go that long? Maybe I'd limit it to five? What I welcome is Article 18, which prescribes that at the time of establishment, and later on, in the case of new institutions, it is necessary to employ at least one full-time teacher on every three sectors where adult education is conducted. This is in the case of new ones, and it certainly takes care of the application of this article to existing institutions that will go to the evaluation of their quality. And just for a little while as long as it allows. Schools of foreign languages allowed to register is only a matter of how they will be included in the quality management system together with institutions for, perhaps a few words in your final address. ... Thank you very much. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61606	Time. We have replicas. The first is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61607	Here is my colleague Bedekovic, and you yourself have said that so far there has been an unsettled adult education market, so I am interested in seeing that as I have pointed out, as I believe you know there are competent institutions that control the work of adult education institutions. What makes you think that it has been unsettled or that anyone should be held accountable for his disorder?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61608	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very This is a really important question, and I don't think we should punish here right now and go to rigorous measures. This area is really messy. The law is outdated and with years I tell you again by expansion and by the number of 600 institutions for adult education up to today, with unregulated quality criteria, of course, that it led to the situation we have today and we didn't have a clear system so who actually takes care of quality management, nor did we have over these institutions, nor did we have well-developed criteria. So I don't think I'm into witch hunting, because the people who own these institutions have those who do a great job of doing a great job of their own. By introducing this system, their good work will only be confirmed, and anything that does not meet the criteria will have to be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61609	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61610	Dear colleagues, it's good that this law is in two readings. I see the intensity to the perfection of system editing, so I'm going to give my contribution to that, so I'm going to pray that in lifelong education that really separates education for the needs of the world of work means the needs of the market from what is necessary because we advocate the lifelong learning of older people from what is for beekeeping, for information training it should also be propagated and have these programs. But basically, that thing needs to be separated, so be it, but lifelong learning for the world of work is still something else. And in order for this law to be much better than it is and it's good, I think we're missing one hard analysis, a hard analysis of the labour market. Unfortunately, we don't have too many needs that are on the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61611	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61612	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Thank you for asking me that question. First of all, I think that adult education when it comes to qualifications, requalifications, and therefore the programmes should be consistent with the labour market, and we need it as you have said, as you have said, a very difficult, difficult analysis itself, a very large, therefore one very high-quality and extensive analysis, with this small delay, and I will remind you that at this time, we still do not know what interests we will need for a year, two, three or so to take that factor into account. That's the first one. Secondly, this part of the education that you were talking about, so when it comes to different courses, different courses that enroll candidates who want to improve their own skills and competences without them completely depending on their material existence, it is necessary to separate them. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61613	Time. The last replica of the respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61614	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues here you yourself have stated what we say is that there are non-quality programs, an outdated system that needs to be changed. Unfortunately, many or let’s say some who go to this system of education go to pay on principle and get a degree as soon as possible. But how to work to raise the awareness of all people and that lifelong learning and education are important. I think that there is not only the tasks of those institutions that provide education, but also the Ministry and the Agency would have to give their assistance and support both in drawing up the programmes and in implementing the programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61615	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61616	Absolutely, my colleague. I agree with you. Well, that's that gray zone I was talking about. I mean, unfortunately, we need to be realistic and we need to talk about trends, we need to talk about good things. I repeat again you have a great adult education facility that is doing a great job. They come from individuals with acquired competences, knowledge and whatever they need for additional qualifications, requalification or already what they want with the programme. Unfortunately, there's and there's this gray zone that you've been talking about yourself and where you said you went over there and bought the testimony, you paid for the final document, and you're done. That should be mentioned and it should certainly be condemned. And that is why, from the beginning of this debate to the end, I am advocating and will always advocate the introduction of a quality system in the area of adult education with clear criteria, with clear expectations from these institutions and from the programmes and with clear indications of what will happen if these criteria are not met, and these are short-limits for carrying out activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61617	Time. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61618	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia provides funds for the implementation of the basic education programme for adults and training for simpler jobs in professions which we naturally welcome. However, in Croatia as well as throughout the European Union, there is a group of adults who have completed formal primary education, but still do not have basic reading, mathematical and digital skills. This problem highlights the Council of the European Union's recommendation on forms of improvement of the new opportunity for adults, which was published in 2016. It states that in today’s society all should possess a wide range of skills, knowledge and competences including sufficient literacy, mathematical literacy and digital competences to fully achieve their potential, actively participate in society and assume their social and civic responsibilities. Such skills, skills and competences are also essential for access to the labour market and for progress on it as well as for further education and training. The EU Council Recommendation was adopted because of the fact that the research on the skills of adults conducted by the OECD, that is, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which has been examined by readers and mathematical literacy, and the problem of technology-rich environments. This is all at the level of 20 EU countries. In Croatia, this research is currently being conducted, so we still have no results. Thus, it has shown that almost a quarter of adults in the age group reach very poor results in fundamental literacy, and it is less likely that they will participate in new learning or participate fully in the digital economy and society. These persons also face higher risk of unemployment, higher poverty and social exclusion rates, greater of course and health risks, shorter life expectancy as their children face higher risks of poor educational outcomes. This must be a signal to all of us together that funding from the state budget should certainly include adults who do not have developed their basic skills regardless of the level of formal education they have acquired by then. Funding from the state budget would ensure the continuity of the implementation of these education programmes. It would also enable many adults to acquire skills without which it is simply not possible to keep themselves on the labour market or to participate naturally in community life. It's final. We therefore welcome in the Green-left bloc the bill on adult education in first reading. We call on the designers of this proposal to complement and extend the additional opportunities of adult education by the second reading, I would dare to say the necessary legal framework that gives us the opportunity to put finally education, so of course adult education at the centre or rather into the foundations of this society and into the priorities of this, and also of every Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61619	Next individual debate, respected representative Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61620	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this law is another proof that this government of the Republic of Croatia is in the best interest of the system of education as well as the basic, high-school, high-school education today we also came to the Law on adult education. If there was ever a greater need to amend the existing 2007 law, then this is exactly the new normal period. Changes in the labour market that have taken place through mode of work, mode of communication, holding meetings, participation in manufacturing processes, in limited circumstances. Therefore, there are circumstances in which we need to consider what to regulate this on adult education by means of a new proposed law. What is very interesting is that this law, hence adult education programmes, is aligned with the Croatian qualification framework and is established in a certain way and order and relationship between the labour and education markets. There's no quality education without quality systems. And that is why this bill initiates and encourages teachers, lecturers, directors, all who need to be themselves, so the Andragogian leaders. They are also allowed to value this adopted knowledge through, therefore, the evaluation of the students, that is, their adopted knowledge. If we adopt this law, this quality system will be worth at least the next twenty years. The team is more responsible to all of us who will raise our hands for this law or propose certain corrections, changes or improvements themselves. This law defines for the first time, therefore, and wants to raise the standard of material and personnel conditions for all adult education institutions. How many institutions do you have for adult education that have a director, a part-time director, possibly a housekeeper? The rest are outside associates, and the question of course is what are the material conditions. Of course, we are also pleased with the intensity, so the legislators to flexibilize programmes, i.e. that teachers in adult education do not have to have, therefore, an additional pedagogical psychological education, but rather encourages them, therefore, to systematically develop with Andragogical education. What I have to mention here, and I don't think it was, so there were colleagues or colleagues who discussed this law, that they didn't touch these famous vouchers, whether it was a question of language content or what the voucher means. So this government, through its means of security in the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, predicts over 300 million kunas, therefore, for the system of vouchers. This type of education will therefore be free of charge for those users and thus we stimulate that more people are not only unemployed, and those who are on the labour market, those who want to be professionalised, want to perfect the use of this possibility and get free education or education. There was one fact here that I do not agree with at all, which is that the state budget does not participate in adult education except for basic education. I will only give you an example of why this government has hired more than 14,000 women, over 70,000 users of the "Wish" programme, who have been given the opportunity to work those women harder on the labour market, have been given the opportunity to work, and in addition to free adult education, because they all had to go through extra education just to show how important adult education is and to give those who are harder to cope with the labour market a new chance and opportunity to get through this programme, but also through adult education better in the future on the labour market. It is very important to mention the government's insistence, agencies, national foundations, all who co-finance the support programme... so those who are not in the process of education, who are not employed, who do not attend any training that both the Government and through associations are using the institutions to find funds and to find these people on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61621	We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61622	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I am pleased that in your individual, individual debate, you have highlighted the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is indeed keeping a continuous account and care about the education of all categories of its citizens, and in particular about the education of adults that include both formally and informally, and information education based on the concept of lifelong learning. And I especially support what you have pointed out, and this should be emphasized all the time and we will stress that the programme “Wish” is therefore one of the great examples of adult education in which we have enabled 14 thousand women to enter the labour market and we have provided quality services for 70 thousand users, which is also a result of the benefit for women who are involved in the programme because they are being directed, because they are entering the labour market, and certainly also for 70 thousand end-users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61623	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61624	Thank you very much. So 14 thousand 353 women have passed or are in the women's program. It is also very important to mention that through this programme, the Ministry of Labour is strengthening exactly adult education institutions. Therefore, the money provided for the retraining and the schooling programme of women who are going to go through this programme "Learn" is provided through European means and through the measure of the Government, or the "Wish" programme, that is to say, our institutions that we are talking about today commenting on this Law so that they get a financial injection, or that they secure these funds through a public tender, are therefore chosen by the person who implements the "Wish" programme and that this programme is therefore free of charge for these women we have been talking about for a little while.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61625	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61626	Thank you. Dear colleague Piletic, we at HSS support all kinds of education either formal or informal. What we may not support is some kind of education that some means are being taken to pay for some kind of requalification course, and that person is ultimately not learning anything from that money. I think this adult education is important today, and it will also be important in the future because it will have to repair the failures of the regular education system. It is tragic that today, after finishing high school, we have children in large percentages who do not know how to read and who do not know what the basic things that should be learned through the education system are. It means education, yes, certainly every adult education and education. Education is one of the most important things for the Republic of Croatia, for any government that rules the Republic of Croatia because only an educated man is a free man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61627	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61628	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lenart may in part agree with what you said at the beginning. However, it does not appear that adult education is therefore due to a poor system of education of regular primary and secondary education. Today we have a system of occupations that will not exist on the labour market in 5 to 10 years. So, we have to right through the adult education system either formal or informal to allow the particular market of people who are in the labour market to qualify for new technologies, for new occupations. There's no day for a new profession to come. So we couldn't build an education system so that for all of this new interest in the labour market that we don't even know the names of, therefore, provide quality education through a regular system of education and education. This is why adult education is not only formal, but also informal, so someone mentioned it through associations, and through different short programs it serves adult education and especially in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61629	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61630	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable state secretary with associates, respected MPs and MPs. So, the current law, as we had the opportunity to hear, has not been changed for 14 years, and this new law is making significant changes to the adult education system, and I am going to talk exclusively about the system of vouchers that this law introduces as newspapers and which will have a significant impact not only on the quality of the labour market but also on the increase in the number of employees, the reduction of the number of unemployed, where this government led with Prime Minister Plenkovic made significant progress, and given the introduction of the voucher, I believe and I am sure that it will continue. So, as far as the vouchers are concerned, it will be possible to use them from 1. April next year, up to 10 000 kuna per user. I dare say that such opportunities for adult education have never been in the Republic of Croatia. The aim, therefore, is to encourage adults and employees and unemployed to participate in education by providing each individual with a better position on the labour market, as well as the possibility of higher social status, but also what is very important is the personal well-being of that person, and of course the economy allows for greater productivity. In the UNRS, or the National Development Strategy by 2030, we have set ourselves very ambitious, but I would say a realistic and realistic goal, which is equalising the adult rate in lifelong education with the European average. I can freely say that this law allows for the operationalisation of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from the domain of the labour market component, which is total financial burdens of more than 2 billion kunas and for this component is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy and Minister Aladrovic. This document provides for the development of a Voucher system, i.e. a model for the acquisition of additional skills for both employees and unemployed persons, and in line with the needs of the economy. The skills required, therefore, which are in line with labour market needs are certainly the main driving force for growth and productivity, are also crucial for unemployed young people who enter the labour market for the first time. But I dare say they're crucial to all employees. For the purpose of the Voucher system within the IPO, it is provided as we have already had opportunities to hear the amount of 300 million kuna today. The participation of 30,000 users is planned, which means that the amount of one voucher for education is up to a maximum of 10 000 kuna per person, and the emphasis will be on the quality of the programme, as well as on compliance with the needs of the labour market. It is important, however, that if that amount is spent successfully, then no further funding from other sources has been excluded, as well as an increase in allocation. What is important to emphasise is that the conditions of funding the acquisition of skills are their foundation on HKU, i.e. the Croatian qualification framework, and the education programmes themselves are based on the catalogue of skills from sub-registration standard occupations developed through HKO and entered in the HKO register, and evaluated naturally by competent agencies. Only you and those will be approved for funding via vouchers, provided they are implemented by accredited adult education institutions. The programmes must, of course, be based on both standards of interest and standards of qualifications. As I said, the target group is both employed and unemployed, and the award of the voucher is provided in digital form by opening a user account on the Croatian Employment Service pages. As part of the applicative solution of HZZ, the user will choose the desired skills from the skills catalogue and will need to explain the need for selected skills, and the Ministry is currently in the implementation of a project of mapping skills financed from the European Social Fund, which means that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61631	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61632	Thank you very much. In fact, in your debate, you have explained in detail the importance of introducing a voucher and all the activities that are already being carried out on this issue. And I listen to you actually have to realize that the Republic of Croatia has never been in a better position to use so much money for adult education than in this next period that is coming to us. So 300 million kunas for vouchers, the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, 10 000 kunas per person times the number of users, and thanks to EU membership, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, therefore used everything she could use in the negotiations, so the multi-annual financial framework for the next period. And as things stand now, all of this will happen and certainly the government of Andrej Plenkovic will continue on this path.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61633	Thank you. Your Honor, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61634	Thank you, dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic. So, I fully agree with you, and I am glad that you have once again pointed out that these opportunities for adult education in the Republic of Croatia have never been seen thanks to the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, but thanks to our membership in the EU, we today have at our disposal 300 million kunas, which means that the user will receive a maximum of 10000 kuna for a specific education of up to 6 months where they will be able to further their skills or acquire new ones, which is extremely important not only for that person and for his well-being but also for reducing unemployment, increasing employment, for the resilience of our economy, for further strengthening it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61635	The next replica is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61636	By listening to this mutual exchange, I can't simply take the impression that you in HDZ may have some kind of internal table in which the pluses are entered every time you mention the government of the great Supreme Plenkovic in a positive context. But that's not my question. My question is very simple. It refers to what you think who should carry out the procedure for external evaluation of adult education?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61637	Wait a minute! Wait a minute! My colleague, Bedekovic, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61638	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I believe Article 238 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure for the fact that a colleague insults both me and my colleague by alluding to the fact that we have mutual agreement in praising the Government of Andrej Plenkovic as a result of her grief and grief because her political option unfortunately failed to enter the ruling position. And when they come to the ruling position, then they can start to rejoice. If they come.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61639	My colleague Bedekovic, you know that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so in accordance with Article 240(2), I give a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Here's a respected representative, Selak Rasdic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61640	This Regulation shall enter It is completely unclear why my colleague Bedekovic was offended. I find such an environment extremely stimulating. Let's say for me, teachers in the first grade when they're done with the task of drawing a star, a smile, a flower, etc. So, yeah, I'm sorry I don't work in the same stimulating environment as you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61641	My colleague Rasudiæ, it is also the third and, in accordance with Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. Here, you can respond to the respected MPs, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61642	Thank you very much, Vice President. So my answer to Mrs. Selak Rasdic is that the results of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government cannot be denied because they are facts and these are the results behind which we stand proudly, and on your grief, which is why I can't influence all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61643	We also have a replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61644	It's hard to replicate after such a tirad, but I'm going to say nicely you pointed out what I agree with the novelty in this law and the system of vouchers that should work. But more than just withdrawing money is important to me how much of our unemployed will be able to earn bread through vouchers and adult education. And the second question is both for you and for the people present here from the ministry. I have a situation that one institution that has been registered and I'm looking for glass, so we all have five masters in Croatia in Istria County. And she invited an educational inspector to come help them fix their technical conditions. Okay, I know that for technical conditions, for such an institution that's registered with the Ministry is not a competent educational inspector, but may they be helped. I think our administration should behave a little more flexible, not follow strict rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61645	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61646	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr Hrelja, as far as adult education is concerned, I would especially like to underline the project "Wishful" in which women are involved in this project, for which this government has provided around 2 billion kuna, has had the possibility of additional education. And many of them have taken advantage of it, and today they are stronger on the labour market. You also remember very well that through the Ministry of Labour we had an ISF project, or a project funded by the European Social Fund that involved the activation of pensioners and in fact the creation of strengthening their skills. And as for this part about vithraea if I'm not mistaken, I think that should still be answered by the Ministry of Science and Education. Because as far as I can understand it, it's about an educational inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61647	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State Tomislav Paljak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61648	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. Thank you for your discussion. Since this is the first reading, we will see how much it will be evaluated constructively or not, but here I have the need in some way to round up this topic today, say those basic guidelines and look back at my notes during this debate, and then you will also have the opportunity to see whether we are on a good threshold or not. In any case, the intensity of this law is of course to remove the insufficient quality of adult education institutions, to correct the inconsistencies of the education programme and to introduce them into labour market needs, to remove these inability to recognise information and informally acquired knowledge and skills, i.e. to become in a certain process of recognition. And that the discrepancies with the recent national and European strategic documents that have also been seen are also simply consistent with what is needed and what today's legislation and today's needs require. General provisions here are formal adult education carried out in institutions that have registered adult education activities in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the establishment and establishment of institutions. Formal adult education is also considered to be an education carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in other national authorities' competences in accordance with specific regulations, the levels of education programmes and programmes for the evaluation of learning outcomes and the allocation of qualifications in accordance with the Croatian qualification framework are introduced. The formal and informal education of adults for the acquisition of the competences necessary for the work involving the implementation of formal and informal forms of learning to acquire the competences necessary for the work to which the provisions of the law governing the labour market apply. This law, as you had the opportunity to hear in the opening presentation, explains how institutions for adult education work, which are programmes in the adult education system, which are formal and informal programmes and training for the acquisition of competences needed for work, are financed by the voucher, how the human needs of teachers in adult education are defined, which means professional training and training, which are the students, which is what adults are expected to do, and how they intend to ensure quality in adult education. What will look like andragogical documentation, records and public documents in adult education, how they will finance, how to monitor and develop a system of adult education, what will be supervision and, of course, with transitional and final provisions. The way you've been discussing it, the way you've been, the way you've been going this day, I'm going to look back at some moments. I would not agree with the finding that there is chaos in the education market. We can simply talk about categories as good as it is, it's not, how tropical or proactive, how much effort is being put into removing any perceived negativity at all. But if there was chaos, I wouldn't agree. On the concrete question of fellow Members, I would say that we have three here in 2018, so it is not a single one, but three solutions have been made when the establishment that has already worked on the work has been denied. Based on this law which is as flawed as it is, but here are the processes in which there are even conditions that the institution can work on or cannot work on. The agency receives about 1,400 requests annually according to this information that I collected and between 15% and 20% in the beginning is eliminated, so they are not allowed to work. It's a question of this search, and now who's responsible I'm going to say is responsible for both bad law and bad implementation and everything that preceded that and that's why we're here today to correct it. As far as specific needs are concerned, you asked if we have a list of these skills, the skills we need – we have, because we have done so on the basis of the Imput from employers, our employers and they have detected our needs for our labour market as much as they are in coordination with European needs at the moment I cannot tell you. But the fact is, we've just tendered them, or we've targeted our market. As far as justified reasons and Article 25 are concerned That is to say, what are the reasons why it is justified when it determines the validity or invalidity or the work or the unhappiness of the institution, of course there are several ways, and above all there may be an application, to report to the competent institutions to check the way in which the institution, in which it operates, and then is the obligation of the legislator, of course, to get it out. There may appear any ads that may be false, and one of those reasons will also be necessary. It is true that the Agency for Professional Education and Education is worth it, but not by, according to that "cadiya and suing you, cadija and judging" because the institutions will be able to complain to an independent commission that will have five members. One is from the ministry, four are part of independent experts, and this relationship to which you have linked the previous topic related to the National Centre for External Evaluation, so at this point it has its own cleavage of ingenuity on what it is responsible for, and the agency has, according to the proposal of this law, as it is now proposed. We think it's good and there's no obstacle to the Agency for Professional Education and Education. And when we go to high school, and it matches one part and high, then it's the Agency for Higher Education and Education, so it's not exactly uniform and it's not the way you described it here. However, Article 22 is mentioned in terms of the possibility of secondary school education up to 17 years. It was introduced in order to enable regular enrollment of students with special needs. As for the possibility of adult education and education not since the 15th, this law has been going on since the age of 14, so that children who do not want to go to high school do not lose one year between 14 and 15, let's be specific about the top athletes who are important to get involved before in these opportunities of adult education and education, so it is pointed out here for this reason. A further question has been asked what categories of Andragogian leaders are. So far, they can only be teachers and professional associates. Professional associates, and in them we count, of course, pedagogogicals. In their formal education, they also have a specialized andragogy. However, here is the intensity to create directions, so just andragogical on the programs of the university and that it is precisely the Andrews, of course, under the condition of a minimum of 4 years of work previously in some of the educational institutions, which, by itself, has certain new standards and requirements that will go exactly according to the education and education of adults not to wander there anymore, but to go specialised in the education of those who will implement it. Whether the vouchers will go into the right hands, of course, because they will be followed continuously, because they will be advised and they will have obligations, so as with all the other points or I don't know more which good Croatian word could be used because these expressions are so much domestic, that I think they are clearer than to use something, some others like MP Dretar said. But if he's going to push us into regulation into sublegal acts, I don't think he's going to because we've got a lot of it, a lot of it in the law. And regardless of what he's connected inter-sectorally and which connects the active three ministries precisely because of the consumption and these parts from the IPO, I don't think there should be any problem in that sense. Contracts on the work of course where they are needed, have been so far, will be and from now on only as clearly as possible when a full-time teacher has to be hired, as far as it is, how many sectoral scopes he must have. Also, hiring an Andragogian leader in terms of those two roles both directors and Andragog parents can, but now not forever as it has been, but up to 10 programmes can, all above that will have to be professionally represented. But whether the employment of the adults mentioned here should be detailed, so the disabled person may need to, you may need to, we will see to another reading when, once again, the experts sit down. I think it is important to be included as a category which will also be able to participate evenly in the labour market and through these provisions of this law. But we'll see what happens next. This Regulation shall enter As for third-country nationals, foreign citizens should not be confused here. The primary school is mandatory in the Republic of Croatia for everything. If we're talking about migrants, then they're involved, of course, in legal provisions like all other citizens. If we are talking about the working-active population then we are also talking about the needs of the labour market, then, of course, the rules of the sea and it is imagined here to look at the interests of what we have in Croatia, and of course it will not and will not discriminate against anyone. Then I'm going to say about budgetary, public schools just to explain, they're not funded through JLS, but private tuition is that there's a certain problem with lack of wealth, poverty, dealing with it in one way or another, as counsel Gamulin detected. But the fact is, they're not on these budget bases, they're on this one of their own. They're on the market the way they are and they've been doing it the way they can. Exams for knowledge and skills informally, that is, this is, of course, the whole idea not to turn informal knowledge into formal because then we make a mistake then again build up formalisation on one side and transfer balance to where it's not supposed to be, but that if someone has informally acquired knowledge they check and be recognised as well as the informational and here is the representative of Hrelja, of course, that it is not disabled for third-year citizens to be part. However, this lifelong learning, education is only that we do not change the concepts of education here again according to all these acts that we have cited and learning. Now that we're going into learning, of course it can't be disabled, but it goes into another category, we're talking about education here. Whether learning will lead to someone being formally educated and on the market, of course, we can talk about it, but it will not be disabled. Here, I don't think this law is at all declarative. I think it's very specific, I think communication is inter-resorial, sectoral is very active and there's probably still room for some improvements to the second reading. I believe that here we will still come to a situation that this House will support a very, very important law here is the absolutely necessary thing I think for all of us and for all of those who think about both the present and the future of this country. Thank you again for everything you've said and seen so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61649	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we move to the next point, the topic is - The final proposal of the law on the validation of the Global Convention on the recognition of qualifications in higher education, second reading. P.Z. No. 164. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207a. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Ivica Šushak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61652	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, distinguished MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Global Convention on the Recognition of Qualifications in Higher Education. The Global Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications is the first UN Convention in the area of higher education to be applied at global level. The Global Convention complements five UN Regional Conventions on Education, Science and Culture of UNESCO on the recognition of qualifications in higher education. Regional Convention on the Recognition of Foreign Higher School Qualifications, also applicable to Europe, The Lisbon Convention came into force in relation to the Republic of Croatia on 1 December 2002. The need for a Global Convention connecting 5 Regional Conventions on the Recognition of Higher School Qualifications stems from an increasing number of students who want to continue education on another continent. Building on the UNESCO Regional Convention recognition of high school qualifications, the Global Convention establishes an additional international legal framework for fair, transparent and non-discriminatory recognition of foreign high school qualifications. The Ministry of Science and Education took part in international consultations on the creation of a Global Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications, which lasted three years. The Global Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications was adopted in November 2019 at the General Assembly of UNESCO in Paris, most of the votes of representatives of Member States including the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the Global Convention is to facilitate mobility for persons who wish to access higher education, to continue higher education or to join the labour market with foreign educational qualifications from another continent. The main objective of the Global Convention is to establish an international normative instrument for recognition at global level. This will strengthen interregional academic mobility and promote international cooperation in higher education as well as lifelong learning. The Convention also contains provisions on the recognition of the development of studies and qualifications of refugees and displaced persons, including cases where the study period, prior learning or qualifications acquired in another country cannot be proved on the basis of documents. The Global Convention shall establish an Intergovernmental Conference of States Parties composed of representatives of States Parties promoting the application of this Global Convention and overseeing its implementation. This will establish formal cooperation between national authorities responsible for the recognition at global level, which will work together to improve tools and practices related to the recognition of foreign educational qualifications. UNESCO will have the role of secretariat and provide guidance to the States of the Convention. The Parties will implement the Global Convention through national structures to recognise foreign qualifications on higher education, as well as national, regional and global accreditation organisations, ensure the quality of higher education, qualifications and recognition of qualifications themselves. Accordingly, the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the procedure, the confirmation of international contracts as well as the fact that at this stage the procedure cannot be modified or supplemented by the text of the international contract is proposed to discuss this final draft law and accept it in one reading. The Convention shall enter into force 3 months after the date on which the 20th instrument of ratification, approval or accession is laid down, but only in relation to those States, parties which have lodged their instruments of ratification, approval or accession. By embedding the Convention into an internal legal order, the Republic of Croatia will facilitate the attracting of foreign students outside Europe to the Republic of Croatia, ensure a better understanding of higher school qualifications from the Republic of Europe and facilitate the integration of persons under subsidiary protection who do not have the documents necessary for recognition for access to the labour market or higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61653	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Excuse me, we have two replicas. The first is Honored Representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61654	So a half-year ago, it was announced that it would be working on the Law on the Recognition and Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, so I'm curious whether the announcement applied to this or to a separate law. And related to this, and in relation to this Convention, the recognition of qualifications of persons under international protection. I am interested, and they have no evidence of their qualifications, who will be responsible for identifying and recognising their qualifications in the Republic of Croatia and whether there are already such persons and such requirements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61655	Dear Secretary of State Ivica Šushak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61656	Thank you very much. Therefore, it is also announced before the procedure for harmonising the text of the draft law on the recognition of foreign educational qualifications, which includes both primary school and high school levels. And I believe that they will meet in front of this High House, and with regard to the recognition of persons who do not have public documents that prove to them qualifications according to the autonomy of the university, the higher universities themselves will conduct procedures according to the procedures for which they write. In the text of the draft law on the recognition of foreign educational qualifications, it is envisaged that for the area of higher education, mainly for universities, it is itself to propose a procedure and procedure which we consider to be in accordance with the usual practice and legal provisions governing the basis of university autonomy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61657	The Republic also has a respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61658	Dear Mr. Vice President gathered, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, this is exactly a global UN convention, but I remember well when I was studying in a pre-bolon system where we didn't have a degree in complement, or many of the other instruments that we have within the Member States. So if you can maybe do a little clean and for the sake of the Croatian public to sum up all the instruments at EU level, this is now broader, but which we have all in respect of the common market and mutual recognition of diplomats which then also allows our students to study outside, especially through rasmus, but also on the great inflow of foreign students in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61659	Dear Secretary of State Šushak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61660	Thank you very much. Namely, by law, the existing Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, we have two forms of recognition of so-called. academic and other professional recognition within which therefore two processes are developed, recognition for continuing further education and recognition for labour market needs. Of course, we are prescribed the content of the diploma and the issue of an additional study document where employers can also see qualifications, standards, learning outcomes that the student has acquired in his former education when referring to higher education. The recognition of secondary school qualifications includes the Education and Education Agency, as well as the Professional Education Agency when it comes to secondary qualifications. And we have some problems here, given the standards of the Lisbon Convention. The idea is to speed up and create a propulsion in recognition, but also to protect Croatia's market and higher education from poor diplomas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61661	Thank you very much. And now I'm opening the debate, so the first one on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61662	So, I would like to say, firstly, that the preamble of this convention itself is full of general places that we will all agree with, therefore, approximately on the basis of the fact that all countries are different, that we will respect their specificities, and at the same time together we will advocate that qualifications in higher education are recognised at some global level, and that does not bounce from anything that has never been the case, or has not been any of the leaders of any networked joint action in this globalised world. Yet within the convention itself, when we talk about some other details, there are some things that should be in our focus, in the focus of this debate, which will certainly still be spoken of. It's the first one. 7. Recognition of the period of study and qualifications of refugees and displaced persons. It refers to the fact that each State Party shall take the necessary and possible measures within its education system and in accordance with its constitutional, legal and regulatory provisions in order to develop appropriate procedures of fair and effective determination whether refugees and displaced persons require access to higher education for the continuation of study programmes or to seek employment opportunities including cases where the study period previously.../The speaker is not understood/... qualifications acquired in another State cannot be proved on the basis of the documents. So it is about people who will find themselves in Croatia and who have no documents with them, who claim to have acquired appropriate qualifications in their country of origin, and now we will have to develop a whole system through which we will check that they are truly qualified for what they claim and then give them an appropriate correction that will be equivalent to some education acquired within our institutions that are still subject to certain control, given that we have either established them or that we have to follow their work. So this is a very serious question because it is extremely difficult to verify someone's qualifications if there is no material evidence for the institutions that that person attended, no diplomas or similar documents, the question is who will implement it and on what basis will assign such documents. For all of Europe, it's a single security issue, let's not lie, there's a large number of people who won't have their own documents, and they'll claim to have qualifications. Now the question is, a part of them will not really come up with documents because they were unable to take with them what they later need because of extraordinary circumstances, and a part of them will lie, they will hunt in blurry. Well, of course, people will hunt in the murky, and if it is possible to try to get some official qualifications from countries where they want to join the labour market. Therefore, this issue is not at all irrelevant and should also pay particular attention in the future to the way in which the knowledge of those who do not have official qualifications on the degree of education acquired and who will carry out those processes and whether they will be subject to subsequent evaluation or what kind of documents they will receive in return. The second question which is shown to be interesting within this Convention refers to Article 1(2) of the Convention. 15, the Intergovernmental Conference of States Parties. So one will be established, I dare say, an unusual body called the Intergovernmental, Intergovernmental Conference of States Parties or Conferences. So, what's this about? The Conference shall promote the application of this Convention and monitor its implementation by adopting recommendations, declarations, examples of good practice or any relevant accompanying documents at global or interregional level. Since nothing in this Convention, at least nominally, is binding and there are several articles directly calling for that none of what is stated in this Convention can be resolved earlier than the legal provisions, contracts and others relating to the higher education system, therefore, simplified by this Convention, nothing will change in the existing system of a particular country which has agreed to this Convention, then it is unclear why an intergovernmental conference of the States Parties will be established to monitor the implementation of that same Convention and by what criteria. It can be supervised as a list of fine desires, but since it says about itself that it does not intervene in the existing educational system and legislation that follows it, why, in any case, such a body that prevails over the states that are signatories to the convention to monitor the implementation of the convention. The convention itself, as such, I repeat, in this preamble is set exclusively as a list of good wishes. So, and it is important, of course, to mention, even though it is unclear to me, given the intensity of the Convention, that any State Party to this Convention may at any time cancel this Convention. So unless anything in this Convention is binding and intervenes in an existing order, the possibility of cancelling or the need for it at all. So these are all the questions that remain open to me. We may get some kind of answer later on, but I don't think that any documents or even conventions that are otherwise of such character are less mandatory than any other documents and directives and what we have to directly transpose into our legislation and treat differently with something that we need to take for granted, uncritically accepting any content and any sentence that is within them. So this should also be a subjective analysis, and in the future, perhaps even at the level of some other bodies that adopt such conventions, we can also give a quality memo, intervene to make better documents in the future. It is necessary to say something in principle about the brain drain process. So we are concerned about the recognition of qualifications in higher education, and we are very concerned. In this sense, I will remind you that Croatia 4 is in the world after leaving educated staff. So the infamous 4th place belongs to Croatia. When we speak, for example, between 2013 and 2017, we talk about 242.285 people and 6% of the population who left Croatia. Since the entry into the EU, 850 doctors have left Croatia, as the Croatian medical chamber points out, it is equivalent that 6 county hospitals are left without any doctors. These are all the data that we need very much concerned about, which is why it is important for us to seriously follow this system of recognition of higher education qualifications, a two-way process so that we can indirectly track what is happening in our country at all. I am afraid that the process will be one-way, that such conventions will facilitate Croatians to find their way abroad, and few will make it easier for them to get along in the Croatian education system. And when we talk about the Croatian education system, then it should be mentioned that the process of recognition is quite complicated, so if we are already talking about qualifications and conventions nothing crosses us to do something within our own system to make it better. For example, if you want to admit the master's degree and doctorate abroad, you can't file one application for recognition of both qualifications. These are data from the Agency for Science and Higher Education because each foreign higher education qualification is recognised separately, which means that for each qualification, a separate application should be submitted and a separate fee paid for the cost of recognition. I point out this because one of our main goals is to simplify this procedure to make it more tempting for them to come and work in our environment. And we at the same time sign these grand conventions, directly relocate them into our legislation, until, on concrete consequences, what we can already do ourselves and we could have done before, and that is to facilitate the return of our educational staff at a practical level in our country, we do not do enough and we do not do as much as we should. I'm going to stand there and see that there's not too much interest in this subject either, obviously, it's such a day with education, but that doesn't mean we should stop talking about education as loudly as we need to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61663	The next club of MPs will be that of HDZ, and a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61664	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the subject of this global convention is the recognition of qualifications in higher education, and when it comes to the recognition of higher education qualifications in the European area, I consider it important to mention the Lisbon Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe, which was drawn up in Lisbon on 11 April 1997, and in our Republic of Croatia has entered into force on 1 December 2002 and the Lisbon Convention is, in fact, one of the UNESCO Regional Conventions on the Recognition of Higher Educations and as such significant for the European space of higher education. And the global convention on the recognition of qualifications in the higher education that we are discussing right now will remind me of the adoption of the UNECE General Conference in Paris on 25 November 2019 and most of the votes of the representatives of the Member States including the Republic of Croatia. Thus, the Global Convention is the first UN Global Convention to complement the UNESCO Regional Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications and certainly improves their integration. And the main objective of this global convention is to establish an international normative instrument for the recognition of higher education qualifications at global level. This would certainly strengthen inter-regional academic mobility, certainly enhance the promotion of international cooperation in higher education, democratisation of higher education and certainly provide the possibility of lifelong learning for all. And exactly in accordance with Article 19 of the Global Convention governing the relations between the States of this Global Convention and the parties of regional conventions on the recognition of higher education qualifications and other international agreements, the parties shall encourage mutual support between this Global Convention and other Contracts whose States are parties, in particular between regional conventions on the recognition of higher education qualifications, so that no provision of the Global Convention can be interpreted in a way that the rights and obligations of the States Parties under regional conventions on the recognition of higher education qualifications and any other contracts of which are parties. And a few words only on the basic issues to be addressed by this Convention are therefore confirmed by the Global Convention in order to make its provisions in the sense of Article. 141. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Also relying on the UNESCO Regional Conventions on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications to the Global Convention, an additional international legal framework for fair, transparent and non-discriminatory recognition of foreign higher education qualifications is established. And of course what I have already pointed out, the general purpose of the Global Convention is to facilitate academic mobility, certainly improve quality and strengthen international cooperation in the area of higher education, and certainly States Parties agree to implement the Global Convention through or in cooperation with their national implementation structures, networks of national implementing structures, national regional and global accreditation organisations, quality assurance, qualification frameworks and recognition of qualifications, as well as with the intergovernmental conference of States Parties, committees of regional conventions on recognition, including certainly national reporting centres or similar bodies. Similarly, the Global Convention shall establish an Intergovernmental Conference of States of Articles composed again of representatives of the same States of parties promoting the application of the Global Convention and certainly overseeing its implementation. And what is finally before the end should be highlighted, for the implementation of this law there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the very nature of the process of confirming international agreements, which the State also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, as well as the fact that at this stage of the procedure it cannot change or supplement the text of the international contract, this final proposal of the law is debated and accepted in just one reading. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Global Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61665	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, the respected representative Sabina Vosovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. I have to join my colleague, Selak Rasudiæ, who, on several occasions since morning, has shown her dissatisfaction, perhaps even indignation with the fact that we are so few when we talk about educational topics. I must say that I share her feelings because our mouths are very often the development of Croatia, the economy, entrepreneurship, the promotion of agriculture, and all this is not without knowledge. It's knowledge that drives, and knowledge has no education, and as long as it's a state, as politicians, we don't realize that this is actually a topic, not specifically, these three laws, but the subject of education is the outcome of everything, I'm afraid we're going to slow down the exploitation of all of those potentials we have. This last item of today's educational law package is seemingly such a technical harmonisation and validation of the Global Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications through the Final Proposal of the Law. It's not the first time we've accessed these associations, so we've been since July 1, 2004. in Croatia, the procedure for the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications is carried out by the Agency for Science and Higher Education, also on the basis of a Law on the Recognition of Foreign Educational Qualifications, which was based on the principles of the Second Convention on the Recognition of Higher Educational Qualifications in Europe, which dates back to Lisbon, which we have already heard in 1997. This Global Convention should, in fact, complement the UNESCO regional conventions to recognise higher education qualifications, improve its integration. But as already stated here, no provision of this global convention should be interpreted in a way that would alter the rights and obligations of the States of parties under regional conventions. And the basic issues proposed to be regulated by this law are the establishment of an additional international legal framework for fair, transparent and non-discriminatory recognition of foreign higher education classifications, facilitating academic mobility, improving quality and strengthening international cooperation and is, in fact, the basis of the International Convention of States Parties promoting the application and overseeing the implementation of this Global Convention. However, this is all nice and presented, we will, of course, commit ourselves to certain things, or promote application and oversee the implementation of the Global Convention, but indeed this whole process of recognising foreign qualifications in higher education, but also foreign professional qualifications is something that is quite still challenging, I will not say a storm in public but a storm among those who find themselves in a situation that, for this or that reason, want to change the situation, achieve some rights of business created to achieve certain freedoms at the end of the cross-border provision of services. Here we need to be clear that in this case we are not talking about automatic means automatic recognition of qualifications in higher education, this does not mean a ticket to the labour market. Until 2004 Nostration of the diploma was something that was then a mechanism which allowed us to call it that. The moment we were after '97, after Lisbon, and 2002. In fact, by signing the contract, the AZVO has taken over the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications, but at the moment of EU entry, citizens of the European Economic Area have exercised the right to cross-border recognition of professional qualifications in a regulated area of access that needs to be met by certain conditions. So this recognition of foreign higher education qualifications is just one small segment in this whole story that we're talking about today and which should be two-way communication, if we're not just talking about continuing education, we're talking about access to the labour market, and here we as Croatia have some challenges. For the first years, we have tortured with chambers and ministries in how to establish a system of recognition of foreign professional qualifications, in which way we prescribe the additional conditions necessary for the permanent provision of services in a particular area because we do not have the problem if we have occasional or temporary provision of services. In that case, there is actually no procedure for recognising foreign professional qualifications, but when we came to this part of the permanent provision of services in a certain space we encountered problems here. Not as much as with an automatic system where there are only six professions, so these are nurses, technicians, dental medical doctors, architects, nurses, technicians, because there are fewer and more opportunities for pre-accession negotiations for all countries to agree that through common curricula or educational programmes they will provide as easy access and recognition as possible in whatever part of the EU. And when we talk about this general system where we had to prescribe or where certain professions are prescribed for additional ones that aren't regulated, they prescribe added conditions, we're in a lot of trouble. That part has now stabilized. However, while we are already talking about this between the labour market and migration and the processes that should be two-way that indeed these conventions are that their result is not only an easier approach to the outflow of highly educated people from Croatia, people who can make their contribution to the labour market, but they will seek their happiness because of better working conditions, because of less corruption in some other EU countries, we also have a big problem with third-world countries and here we also need to see how to ensure that we are able to achieve the entry of certain professions that may be deficited in the Republic of Croatia, so that we do not deprive certain personnel, but to set very serious standards that everyone must meet. Because the fact is that in some of the professions of individual staff, we're going to be quite debilitating, that we won't be able to afford a more expensive one, so I'm going to say, labour force, or people who are qualified and have knowledge and skills for certain professions, we're going to have to turn to some less developed countries, countries that are not members of the EU. So I am taking this opportunity, although this is not a direct subject of this law to think about and how to establish that standard, especially when we are talking about the countries of BiH and Serbia where we have been having a problem with the harmonisation of standards for years. We, as a representative club, will of course support this, but we also appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the existing procedures are as easy as possible in the frameworks in which it is possible to change, but that the procedures are made easier, but also that we can see how we can reach some things that are not prescribed for Croatia in terms of EU membership, which we meet daily and we believe that in the coming period we will see even more more in the coming period. Here's a thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61667	Thank you. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61668	So, with two things that I have already pointed out in a speech on behalf of the club, on the one hand, the question of how we will participate in the Intergovernmental Conference of States Parties, and how we will follow the implementation of this Convention is that it is exclusively some kind of flossule or can indeed be done in practice and what is at all the intensity of this Convention in terms of how in our education system we will recognise the qualifications of those who are unable to show the documents on the acquired degree of education because they are migrants, they came from some highly conflicting country, etc. I would like to highlight another problem that is related to the issue of qualifications, which concerns the quality of education of different institutions, especially when we talk about abroad. For example, in Croatia official statistics of the Agency for Science and Higher Education for 2020. talks about how we had 1497 requests for recognition of foreign diplomas and even 884 came from BiH, with 62% referring to Mostar and 12% to Sarajevo. So we already have a certain inflow of people who want their acquired qualification to be recognised from abroad, and logically, it is most often BiH because it is a country that is neighbouring to us and in which a large number of Croats live. For us it is certainly good, such a type of interest given our demographic situation and it should be welcomed, it should be propagated, it should be facilitated. However, it is also necessary to ask the question in the context of this Convention as to the difference in education in certain countries, but also in the context of Croatia when we speak widely to individual institutions within the Republic of Croatia. To be very plastic in the media is often talked about so-called. under the quotes of the Osijek PhDs, I am not prone to any generalization, and I find it inappropriate that not all institutions in Osijek are the same, let alone all professors in individual institutions, but this is one sound example that shows that neither the educational system is of equal quality everywhere. So that's the one thing we're going to deal with inside Croatia. However, when we talk about this, about the recognition of foreign qualifications, then the question really arises as to what kind of education system is in our neighbouring countries and beyond Europe, since in this way we can also encourage if it is easier to get any educational degree to go out, and then these qualifications can be non-critically transferred to our education system. So that's another open question that I wanted to point out in an individual debate. And since we are now nearing the end of this educational day which has not been educated or enough of our parliamentary representatives since the topic has not been of more significant interest to our own shame, I will just point out that we have been able to see several important problems in the system. On the one hand, the independence of institutions, on the other hand, overlapping the powers of institutions, the issue of which the institution is doing its job, on the third hand, the issue that is very much relevant to us, and this is the mutual harmonisation of the laws relating to the work of different institutions, is in this adult education that are completely out of line. And ultimately, the non-critical takeover of conventions and different documents that come without more detailed analysis of their content.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61669	The next debate will be the respected representative of Marko Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61670	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, and I reported on this individual debate precisely because it seems to me that you are very easily equating the market for work with the recognition of qualifications in higher education. And right here I agree with my colleague, Voter, that recognition of qualifications is only one of the components when we talk about the labour market. Most importantly, the more important component is that someone wants you to be able to get a work permit or that we are within EU member states where labour mobility exists. It is also worth reminding that Croatia was not nearly as large as it was in the other member states, since it later entered the EU from the member states, that we entered the last one, that the outflow of that workforce was not nearly as large. Of course, every young person who left the Republic of Croatia is a great pity, we want to return it, and we see from the latest data that people are coming back, but here I had personal experience when I studied in 2007 at a master's degree in Great Britain, when I came practically there were no Polish citizens at all when I left in 2008 when the delay in the application of labour mobility nearly 10% of Southampton where I lived was Polish citizens. Let's also take about 25% of the countries of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia of 22 million Romanians over 4 million Romanians evicted. This does not mean that we do not have to fight it and precisely the Government, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has highlighted demography as one of the important factors where we want to attract young people. And we attract young people just by opening jobs that carry extra value, which is a high, highly educated person. I see this final proposal as the first step on a global scale to go in that direction. Of course, it's a much more harmonised space.../incomprehensible/... so the space of the Member States where we have both the Bologna Process, the Lisbon Convention and everything else accepted mutual recognition of diplomas, but I particularly wanted to stress about the labour market that there is a prerequisite that someone wants you and that you can.../incomprehensible/... This Convention is not seen on the other hand that we are increasingly competitive for foreign workers and more and more highly educated foreign workers, yearly before the change in the system of issuing licences 2019, we are approximately a little less than 100,000 work permits issued for foreign workers. Today, when unemployment in Croatia is at least 119,360, when we have 16,000 advertised and not filled jobs, when the biggest challenge now is to find a qualified workforce again after leaving the crisis, and these 1,400 diplomas to 100,000 about foreign workers when we see that, of course, not all of them are highly educated and still a small number compared to what we have. I would remind you that Croatia is also the first country in, the EU member to pass the Digital Nomads Act where we have made it possible for foreign startups in particular in IT, to work and programming somewhere on the coast, and to have the centre of our companies somewhere in other Member States we come to this second component of the labour market. So this Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Global Convention sees as a first step, there is no concern that any or any right of migrants or anything will have to be recognised when, in any case, you yourself, colleagues Selak Rasudiæ said, at any point we can withdraw, and that intergovernmental conference I see as an incentive to move at least into the minimum standards of harmonisation of the recognition of higher education qualifications at UN level. We are much more harmonised at EU level and this will be respected and, of course, this convention itself will not go against the Lisbon Convention, but at any moment we can get away from it, so none of these fears that have been highlighted have been made clear that they would not support this and that they would not confirm the final proposal for this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61671	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61672	Dear colleague Pavic, I think it's inappropriate to talk about fears. It is about detecting the problematic points of this Convention or something that may potentially be problematic in the future, and this is our task here, especially all of us who have carefully read the text of this Convention, which may not always be a practice, not even in the ranks of HS. What I'm interested in is if nothing really is binding here as the text of the convention itself says, and we can come out of it whenever we want, then what is the legislative copying of this convention anyway?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61673	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61674	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, so I'm just talking about the fears of making arguments out of fear, Art. 21 for us, for me and for those of you who have read this carefully, say St. 1. Any State Party to this Convention may at any time cancel this Convention. So the idea of the convention is to move at least minimally, set a minimum standard at UN level in recognising qualifications, it promises no job anywhere, it promises nowhere to accept migrants and stop scaring the Croatian public. If that shows up at any time, we can get out of it. So these fears that you have to break these things I don't know what intergovernmental conferences will have I don't know what powers absolutely don't stand, this is the regulation of absolutely minimum standards that will ultimately allow certain and digital nomads to come into the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61675	The Republic also has a respected representative, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61676	Your Honor, I would refer only to your statement that we were fortunate that a small number of our qualified people left Croatia. We were lucky that some others filled out places of highly qualified equipment in Western countries. There would be a problem otherwise ours would have gone, and unfortunately those who went out with a degree they shouldn't have that diploma later on outside... Because they worked elsewhere, they worked as cleaners, cooks, bakers, so they didn't do their job, and there's the problem. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I think this convention is extremely important, that we should accept it, that we should move on even though it doesn't guarantee anything at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61677	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61678	Thank you very much. Just to correct you, so I did not say that I am sorry that, or that it is a late entry that is a relatively small number, it is still a large number of Croats who have gone abroad, but a relatively small number compared to other countries that have recently joined the EU before Croatia. When we talk about the recognition of medical diplomas, when our doctor goes to Finland, Norway or any of the other countries, is it also prescribed in the Member State and often happens we still have obstacles to the recognition of these diplomas where there are certain conditions... I can also highlight the story when I spoke to the Minister of Labour of Ireland and told her to give us back our doctors, she said no. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our doctors, the Irish doctors are in the United States and Switzerland. So this is not the only problem we have, most of the Member States have, and we need it, and that is why demographics are at the level of the European Commission's vice-president to see how to combat globally within the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61679	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Ivica Sušak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61680	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor. Thanks for the discussion. Although the law is being taken over or the Convention is being taken over as it is proposed to you without the possibility of changing its parts, you have opened up a part of the problem concerning the recognition of foreign higher education qualifications. On the one hand, we have requirements to facilitate and speed up professional recognition for labour market needs, on the other hand we have an imperative to maintain the quality and protection of the Croatian state and Croatian labour market and all its citizens from poor diplomas. She mentioned the distinguished representative Selak Rasdić that for 2020. Almost 1,400 foreign or foreign diplomats of higher education, applications for professional recognition have been submitted, the average is about 1,000 to 1200 in the last 5-6 years, and we have a problem with, with higher education diplomas from Southeast European Member States because they have a problem with quality in higher education. However, on the other hand, the Republic of Croatia has been mentioned several times today through this second point, it has a Science and Higher Education Agency which is a member of the ENKVA and which maintains a quality level for the European space of higher education. We need to know that not all EU Member States have regulatory agencies that determine the quality of higher education are not members of that ENKVA, so they do not have that level of quality they should have in view of the European area of higher education. On the other hand, we have a big problem with unfulfilled quotas at public high schools, this year it seems to me about 11,000 unfulfilled places at all 9 Croatian public universities and a number of public universities. On the third hand, Croatian labour market, Croatian employers know very well how to assess the quality of someone's qualifications, so they recognize higher education and very well how we have a dual system of professional and university education. With all this, this Convention provides tools for all bodies participating in quality, definitely for the continuation of further academic education of higher schools itself will prescribe criteria. When you have mentioned the procedures of verifying or establishing the higher education acquired so far for persons who do not have public ids, means for displaced persons, asylum seekers, etc., persons in movement, there is no other criterion than to verify the outcome of learning, knowledge checks, qualifications and skills acquired. The only way, and of course the higher schools themselves, when it comes to continuing further education, will carry out the procedures as they prescribe in accordance with autonomy, academic self-government and the criteria they themselves prescribe. I hope so, and I am convinced of the quality of Croatian higher education that it will definitely be able to establish a procedure. In addition to this Lisbon Convention, the European Area of Higher Education, the European Economic Area, we must protect the Croatian labour market and all citizens from poor diplomas where our biggest problem or diploma is bad quality, where the biggest problem is private higher education from neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61681	We have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61682	Since my colleague Pavić has been averse, not to say I have lied about scaring the Croatian public with migrants, and I have never dealt with such a banal rhetoric, I have just warned that it is a delicate process when we must recognise the qualifications of anyone who has no material evidence that he has completed any degree of education. If you think that this whole process is excess and ridiculous, you can publicly advocate that it is abolished and we will see how your voters react to it. I'd like to ask you something very specific. So, given the Intergovernmental Conference of States Parties established by this Convention, how will the implementation of this Convention be supervised in Croatia and what is your concrete strategic plan for the implementation of this Convention in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61683	Just a moment from colleague Selak Rasudiæ, it is not appropriate to say in this house that someone is lying to each other, that is not the point, it is not if you want a way of communicating, so please do not use such expressions. Please, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Selak Rasdic, yes, what's the damage to the Rules of Procedure besides you hurting him?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61684	Art. The 238th demeaning of parliamentary deputies, not by appropriate doctoring of the Vice-President of the Parliament, is not appropriate to lie, not to tell someone that he lied if he lied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61685	Yes, I am. In 239 I give you a reminder, and I repeat to you, behave politely here because here people look at us and expect us to be their role model, not to speak ugly words to each other. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61686	Thank you very much. Program objectives are embedded in the so-called ". The Lisbon Convention and the tools, instruments, mechanisms prescribed in the Lisbon Convention will also be specified in the new draft law to be found before you by distinguished representatives, the draft law on the recognition of foreign educational qualifications where complete instruments, conditions, assumptions for the recognition of foreign educational qualifications in a way that protects Croatian state interests and the quality of persons with higher education qualifications and the quality of persons entering the labour market in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-06-0.u61687	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow on Thursday 7 October at 9.30, the first item will be the half-yearly information on the financial situation, the degree of price stability and the implementation of monetary policy in the second half of 2020, the applicant of the CNB. Have a good evening. The session was interrupted at 16:26 p.m.
