ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u57753	Good morning, honourable MPs, respected MPs. Before we move on to the presentation of the position and agenda on behalf of HS on behalf of all MPs and MPs and personally to all police officers and police officers, I congratulate the day of the police and the holiday of their patron saint. Michaela and I thank them for everything they have done, what they have done and what they will do for our country and the safety of our citizens. Now, as every Wednesday, we will move on to the presentation of the position of representatives' clubs, the first is counterpart Ante Kujundzic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u57754	Thank you, Mr. Jandrokovic. Dear Mr. Bukarica, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected the Croatian public. Since the appearance of covid, incompetent owners act as if no other disease exists. While the entire state systems are focused on fighting covid from which or with which, although it is still unclear in the world to date, a little less than 4 million people have passed away, in our Croatia a little more than 8,000 people have almost stopped talking about any other danger to human health. Today, I will even put aside my time-outright statement by the ruling who have even outdone Chuck Norris because the covid once won twice. Today I want to focus my attention on something else, while the world is leading the fight against the pandemic every day we are attacked by diseases whose mortality figures are quite frightening. So I'm afraid this fight against covid as well as the measures taken without any serious revision of the effects of them will leave us with quite a cataclysmic state which is as much as possible and already... the question of whether we want to admit it to ourselves. Today is World Heart Day, high numbers of cardiovascular disease warn of the lack and need of a decisive and clear strategy to prevent all diseases from this spectrum, of which every year almost believed or not by 18 million people in the world. In 2019, just over 22,000 people died of cardiovascular disease. We do not have the exact data for 2020, the data mentioned are for 2019 and should also be for 2020. The comparisons for the Republic of Croatia have a higher mortality rate than the neighbouring countries, which is a clear indicator of the situation in which Croatian health is located. In addition to the devastating numbers related to cardiovascular diseases, a number of doctors warn us that we are expected to have a drastic increase in the mortality of malignancies, with the main reason again listed the consequences of fighting the pandemic, more specifically all the measures that have resulted in not only a number of delayed surgerys but in cancelling the control and regular diagnostic examinations that patients were due to receive. It is true that measures as such were to be taken, but the truth is also that anything that has been delayed or reduced will come to a charge in human lives. To make it more clear what I'm talking about, for example, the Netherlands in which there was a decline of almost 25% of tumour diagnosis in 2020 compared to 2019, 45 people in Great Britain who had symptoms of potential cancer did not go to medical examination at the beginning of the pandemic resulting in a projection of almost 20% more deaths in the next five years. But I would return to Croatia in which the seasonal flu finally arrived after two years, never before did our epidemiologists say. So how's that? So scientists say that maintaining distance, wearing masks and isolation reduced the circulation of the coronary virus, but it also reduced the circulation of other diseases that we have become used to, resulting in a reduction in natural immunity. There is serious concern that all of this could lead to a situation where people will be less resistant to diseases that normally orbit the population and this winter might be affected by a wave of infectious diseases that we haven't seen before. The flu is early, and as Croatia will manage during this period, we are left to see. Croatia with never more numerous waiting lists, health workers deficits, below average health and medical infrastructure, and top doctors and healthcare staff. A government that is without strategy, a government that has not set a goal, a government that has forgotten that just now prevention is the key to reducing not only the diseases of the cardiovascular system but also of all others, so the Club of Representatives of Mosta is justifiably concerned about the health of our citizens and today on World Heart Day we demand an urgent report on the state of the nation and clear measures to encourage the population to prevent and regular checks because the long-term consequences of the covid crisis will unfortunately come to our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u57818	Now we're going to listen to a esteemed colleague, Ursa Raukar Gamulin, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u57819	... Mr. President, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] The security-intelligence agency of the Republic of Croatia has published its regular annual public report, in which the public represents some of the main activities of the Agency from security challenges. At first, we want to welcome that SOA continues to publish public reports, which contributes to strengthening the transparency of its work in the public, times have passed in which security intelligence agencies should not have known anything about them, nor how much they spend, and God forbid they know what they are doing. We want to particularly welcome two things from the report. The first is related to the final recognition of right extremism in Croatia, resulting from last year's armed attack on the government building of the Republic of Croatia. For many years, SOA has in its reports relativised left and right extremism, to make it clear this year that the security risk to the Republic of Croatia is only radicalised individuals, extremely right violent ideologies. We believe that the previous relativisation of right and left extremism was politically motivated, which is never good for the Agency because it can misdirect its resources. The second thing we welcome is strengthening SOA's capacity to respond to cyber attacks. The Green-Left bloc club in the budget debate has pledged to strengthen cyber-defense and the Ministry of Defence because we believe that cyber attacks, with false news spreading and, of course, the response to climate change are some of the key challenges facing states in the 21st century. We are pleased that SOA and SOA, therefore, have recognized that cybernetic danger has become the key to protecting national security. In that sense, we call for further consideration from disproportionate investment in fighter aircraft compared to the real threats ahead of us. We support all IT workers working to protect our cybernetic system and hope that they are properly paid for this extremely valuable job. We regrettably read in the public report that the issue of war crimes and the missing in the war remains open. This theme has been in the SOA portfolio for many years, but clearly it does not produce results. The number of unknown fates remains too large, 1858. Since this approach does not produce results, it may be time for the missing to be treated primarily as a humanitarian rather than a security issue because it is likely that we will solve it more easily. We believe it is particularly important that SOA also works on corruption issues in the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, we'd like to see more results. The credibility of SOA's work on this topic in recent days has been lashed by the publication of a journalistic text in which in a very problematic context, a highly-positioned SOA employee who connects himself with an apartment in a luxury villa next to the Home Movement politician and entrepreneur Marija Radic and the businessman Kresic. The context of the acquisition of expensive property by public service employees, especially SOAs, may have its own clear explanation, but in this case we are caught with a lack of any reaction and explanations related to this journalistic discovery, and the question is whether this information, at least on the SOA radar itself, has to have its own power to employ only the best and unpromised professionals in its ranks. Since SOA argues that its supervisory authorities have a broad possibility of determining the facts, we expect this case to be examined in detail through a simple question, where does SOA employee get money for such a luxurious apartment? Finally, I have to note that the Civil Oversight Council of the SOA, so our parliamentary supervisory authority has been working for a long time in the british composition without any members, so we call on colleagues from the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to fill the empty place in that body of surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u57875	The sixth debate was held by the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Anamarija Blažević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u57876	Thank you very much, President. My colleagues and colleagues. September 29, 1991 So exactly 30 years ago one of the most human beings took place, and in some of the views of historians and particularly psychiatrists and the most humane action of the Homeland War. Today, Croatian defenders from Pakrac and Prekopara, with the great help of the hospital staff, managed to evacuate a little less than 300 psychiatric patients and thus save them from certain death. The Pacrat hospital was on the front line of the front line and was attacked daily by all types of weapons without any respect for humanitarian law standards. At the hospital there was a sign of a red cross, patients were in the wards, and there were wounded and children even having babies. From day to day, the situation was getting harder and harder, and patients and staff were running out of water and no food. The most difficult period begins with the arrival of the Banja Luka Corps. At the time, there were 338 patients and 100 hospital employees at the time of the medical center. Part of them was evacuated, but the rest of them were the most difficult patients in the psychiatric ward under inhuman conditions, and the most lacking food until the water was gone. On several occasions, appeals were made not to shoot at the hospital, and telephones were negotiated with rebels who did not respond at all to appeals. The international red cross was supposed to evacuate but their convoy was attacked in the immediate vicinity and thus stopped. The homeboys of the hospital designed an action with the help of a few bus drivers and with the consent of the state summit at the time, and the action was prepared by local defenders who knew the terrain. Evacuation has been agreed and the cold night has started to save patients and staff. The evacuation itself is extremely well organized and conducted in just two hours and 15 minutes, and no one was wounded or killed. Although it's worth mentioning and it's worth every second of action I don't get to convince all the details now, but the action itself was made a documentary film that you can see tonight and the book "The Lessons of Humanity" was written. Today I am telling you all of this not only to remind us of the time of 30 years ago, but to tell you that there are still heroes of humanity living among us. These are Croatian defenders who performed the most humane action in the Homeland War 30 years ago and saved psychiatric patients who were in a difficult state and physical sense. Most of these patients were Serbian nationalities. We can and should learn from their example today. They can teach med students about medical ethics, but so can all of us in everyday life. If they learned from the heroic works of these people, there would be less violence and terrible crimes in killing children by those they should protect. We must encourage everyone to report any doubts in order to protect these small people who cannot protect themselves and also act politically and go towards reforming the social care system for which the Government has already expressed its intention and what we support. And here we can learn from their examples not to share, not to encourage division in society, on any basis but to build a better society. Today, participants of this action will be reminded in a dignified way of reminding the most humane actions in the Homeland War, changing memories of this act, but all of this needs to be heard far beyond that small area. Unfortunately, they'll find a building near it, but there's the same hope for it, because thanks to this government, at last four years ago, project documentation was made for the building, but for each other's purposes. So four years ago, the building was completely destroyed and no one cared about it. That is why I was happy with the news that yesterday Croatia was paid an advance of 6.14 billion kuna for NPO implementation of total €47.5 billion because these funds can make investments for fast economic recovery and development, which is extremely important for Croatia as a whole, especially less developed areas. Here's a few seconds left, and I have to say in the end that with the staff of this hospital that I've been talking about and the defender of the action as well as in the entire Homeland War, our police force today marked their day and the holiday of my patron of St. Michael, so I'm joining her with congratulations and congratulating the day of the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u57965	We're going to the fourth debate, dear colleague Bartulic on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u57966	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is no secret that there is a mess in Croatian health care, I would say that the situation is getting worse and worse every day and I will try to describe it briefly, some of the causes of this situation and perhaps suggest the start of getting out of this state. At the already famous meeting of the Health Committee, I had an opportunity where Ministers Maric and Bero were together, and I had the opportunity to ask some questions. Minister Beros admitted to me there very openly and sincerely, and I thank him for not actually reforming our health care sector since the '90s and still having a socialist approach where the state is actually a great employer and controlling all the processes, he openly admitted it to me. So we have a state of such that before the pandemic, so before the covidation of this whole crisis in 2020. About 12,000 nurses were missing, missing before the covid, and their departure is simply something to worry about, not just theirs, but the doctor's departure. We know that Croatia invests great money in the education of these people and ultimately delivers them to other European countries. So, it has to change urgently, we don't want to talk here at all in a populist way but to suggest some concrete things, so how do we start because the government is obviously putting it off. Unfortunately, I have to say these embarrassing measures towards health care professionals are not permanently delayed, so the headquarters in this situation persists, and we hear that from next week there will be daily testing and so on. So, rightly these people are rebelling and the Homeland Movement absolutely supports them in this because working conditions are below each level. What's going on in health care? We know what waiting lists are and so on, but at the same time we know that doctors who don't, for example, check-ups in hospitals work in private clinics this afternoon, so the same patients who can't get in line at the hospital are ordering a private checkup and they're doing the tests there. And what's going on? We who pay into the HZZO system actually pay twice for services that we can't consume because there's a mess. And it is not a problem of profession, nor the skills of doctors and other high-level staff, but rather a problem of management of how to manage limited resources. I have long warned that there is no rationalisation of costs, it cannot come to this, we all want to reduce expenditure, it cannot happen until a market mechanism is introduced throughout that system. So as long as HZZO has a monopoly, as long as HZZO artificially, artificially determines the price of services in hospitals, we will have this state of accumulation of debts, non-payment of medicines, etc. It's just that at the beginning we know we're not going to get out of that vicious circle and I have to simply tell the truth, as much as it may be difficult to hear we have to say that the reforms were supposed to be launched yesterday, and there's no time. So, according to the data, I will only indicate the extent to which people are leaving us, so nurses only this year according to the Chamber of Nurses Mario Gazic recently stated that he receives every day requests for people to leave, so this year about 250 requests. So, these people who are on the front lines of this whole thing and this slogan hit the point very well from "Applause to the shower" that's what this is all about, so we've all clapped on people who have courageously cared and nursed patients today to be kind of the first to hit these sharp measures. And I appeal once again to the headquarters to change that and to give up these working conditions. And I ask once again that Minister Berosch's answer is whether firing these people is an option. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58011	We are now going to the fifth exhibition, dear colleague Marin Lerotić on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58012	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The issue of the euro itself is very interesting and further strengthened by the theme of the referendum, which is ultimately a legitimate right for citizens, which is individual political options. However, I believe that the introduction of the euro is strategically important, which is economically and politically, and I think it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to further position within the European family. When we talk about the economy and the economic benefits of introducing the euro, there will be no more currency risk when taking credit, and currency risk is something that our citizens unfortunately have learned very well through the Swiss franc and loans in the same way. Croatia will also become more attractive to foreign investors, a credit rating of the state will be raised, leading to a reduction in interest on loans. By entering the Eurozone, Croatian exporters will become more competitive, and we know that they have been warning for years about the problems they have due to the exchange rate. In a political sense, the introduction of the euro along with the entry into Schengen, which is also quick to expect us, Croatia is finally rounding the process of European integration and becoming equal at the table with the Eurogroup member states and the Schengen area. In these complex and challenging times, we must not allow ourselves as a state to stay somewhere on the edge of Europe exposed and vulnerable in economic terms because economic security and stability are one of the foundations and national security. And although there are certain concerns among the citizens that there may be an accumulation, which is also justified when we talk about certain goods and services after the introduction of payment in euro, as a society and state, we must not allow fear to block us from making strategic decisions. If there is a collection, and it will come, it will not only be because of the euro as such because we know well that prices will be shown in parallel to what in kunas, which in euros and that is good so that citizens can monitor price developments. This must be subject to a special public increase in order to clearly detect and explain to citizens if certain gatherings occur. Otherwise, to be open to the gathering comes daily and without the introduction of the euro. We see unfortunately this year that prices are going up constantly, which is because of inflation, and for some more or less justified reasons. The euro is therefore a necessary step in further development, but not enough. What Croatia needs today when we pay in kuna, and tomorrow it will be when we pay in euro is the growth of the standard of living, primarily through the growth of wages and pensions, which is possible only with greater economic growth, tax discharges, digitalisation, reduction of red tape, turning to sustainable and green development, because these days it will be if 818m euros from the EU plan for the next generations are not already paid. The money is for reforms of those like digitisation, digitisation where today is the very scale of digital competitiveness where, unfortunately, we are only 55 out of 64 places on the global digital competitiveness scale. Serious and courageous reforms such as tax reforms because Croatian citizens and taxpayers are brutally taxed, those reforms in education or health care that are cancer wounds and which we pay more and more every month. And that government has to show that it has a plan, that it has a vision of how to make economic progress and prosperity. The introduction of the euro will bring about some shifts, but ultimately it remains up to us to start our economy, to encourage the development of entrepreneurship and to create new values, to reduce state bureaucracy and obstacles to business. And soon the budget will be presented to us in 2022. which will be a clear indicator of what awaits us in the year ahead, whether we have the strength for decisive reforms or we will be in 2022. implement only in technical preparations for the introduction of the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58085	We are now going to the seventh debate, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, dear colleague Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58086	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, children with physical and mental difficulties in developing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on the Rights of the Child are therefore guaranteed the right to a dignified life and to special care, assistance and protection both by parents and by the state. Article 65 of our Constitution states that it is the duty of all to protect children and powerless persons. A successful concern about the most vulnerable is a real indicator of the strength of every society. And how powerful our society is, that is, how the government and government have been taking care of our most vulnerable children for the past 30 years, showing the following frightening information. And this is that the Split KBC currently does not have any psychiatrists of child and adolescent psychiatry, and parents whose children need them more and more often call the Department of Child Adolescence Psychology of the KBC Osijek or their children's water in Zagreb and Osijek to ask for help from them. The Split KBC has a child psychiatrist, however, here is a doctor who has been doing this on sick leave, a long-time psychiatrist no longer deals with children but works as a psychiatrist of adults, and at the Hospital for Psychology at the Split Hospital annually on stationary treatment receive about 20 minors who should not be there because it is contrary to the law because they do not have the conditions for separate stay from adults. It is not only in Split and Split hospital that the difficult situation with children's and adolescents' psychiatry is such a situation throughout Croatia. Children's and adolescents' psychiatrists across Croatia are 45, and should be around 140. The need for this specialization is becoming more and more pronounced because more children, more and more children have serious mental problems. In 2016 there were about 36,000 medical examinations of children and adolescents, two years before we had them twice, said directors, said here, and head of the Institute in Osijek. Nowhere in Dalmatia or in any hospital, anywhere from Privlaka to Zagreb you have no hospital bed for children or adolescents who need help from psychiatrists. Parents in panic and infirmity take their children to Osijek, rent apartments for seven days to be there with their children. So in Dalmatia, you have no possibility of legal accommodation of a child in a hospital stationary because it must be treated separately from adults, however, it is not possible, you have no bed for the child anywhere. In Osijek, there is the only institution in Croatia for children's and adolescents' psychiatry separated from the cover of adult psychiatry. There are more than 2.5 thousand exams in it annually, 150 hospital treatments. Apart from the KBC in Split, small patients who need professional help from a child and adolescent psychiatrist, can get it at the Rehabilitation Centre for persons with developmental disorders in Split, however, as I said, if they should be placed somewhere longer, so to bed, there is simply no possibility. I call here, this way, this is what we've been talking about, and at the the thematic session of the three parliamentary committees, this problem has been brought out there, but since then, here, to this day there's no movement, no response. I call this way, Minister Beros, but also the entire government to catch up with this problem, to finally respect the provisions of the Constitution and international conventions on the rights of the child we have signed, but like, here, as with other laws, with other conventions, other contracts, other provisions usually do, everything sounds nice on paper, but in practice we simply don't stick to it. So, help at the most vulnerable, most needed, children are our future, so these are words, these are sentences, expressions that we often hear in public, but here is the fact, nowhere from Prevlaka to Zagreb is a single hospital bed for children and adolescents who need help from psychiatrists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58145	He will now speak for his esteemed colleague, Zeljko Sacic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58146	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public, respected police officers and police officers, I congratulate you on Croatian Police Day and thanks for the sacrifice you gave for the freedom of the Croatian homeland. Today is a solemn day for all of us who are participants in these historic fateful events, so I have put on especially this solemn uniform as a sign of respect for my colleagues and colleagues who gave their lives for freedom of the Croatian state just as members of the MUP. Dear friends, let me remind you to the Croatian public that is unfortunately not explained enough, the Croatian MUP, the Croatian police are in '90s and '91s. twice literally saved Croatia's homeland, the constitutionally established order, the state authority chosen by the Croatian people in the democratic elections. The first case of direct war danger was at the beginning of the 12th month more precisely 12.12.In the 1990s, when Veljko Kadjevic, as the federal secretary of the national defence, issued an order for a full battle effort to all soldiers, so-called. The JNA especially in the 5th military area based in Zagreb to go to the streets after the SFRJ presidency's session and, where appropriate, to disarm and disembark, a shifted democratically elected government with a sign in its order to disarm terrorist illegal armed formations of HDZ. Our MUP had no other option but to organize all our members of the MUP then and from the former militia who remained left more than 3,000 people of Serbian and other nationalities, ideological and national reasons in the early 1990s when the chess shop came on our hat, but everyone else we knew and we received orders from us 70,000, 25,000 in active composition, 45,000 in reserve composition that we must defend freedom, democracy of the Republic of Croatia. We've defended her. We've stopped JNA from hitting her. The second blow was inherited or followed by 25.1.'91. the year when our president was in Belgrade, and they released a film by KOS entitled that terrorist formations of HDZ were armed and why it is necessary to disarm and overthrow the democratically elected power in Croatia. At that time, we raised, under the leadership of the then minister and deputy minister of Mr. Zeljko Tomljenović, 100,000 Croatian directors to defend freedom, democracy, constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It was declared a state of emergency absolutely. After that it was what was happening everything you knew. At the green table, we defended the freedom of democracy in the Republic of Croatia thanks to a man who is also little known, who did not want to raise his hand to introduce a state of emergency in the field of SFRY, especially the Republic of Croatia, which is Bodić Bogicevic, a Serb from Sarajevo and thanks to him, failed to do so in a peaceful manner. by a peaceful military coup, rather than having to go to the blood to the knees of Pacrac, Borov Sela, Plitvice Lakes to create the impression that JNA can only save peoples and peoples in the SFRY. Dear friends, on that road the military MUP broke out and 763 brave Croatian sons died as directors of such former militias. 27 still is, they're being followed. Also a member of the special police 158 gave life for the freedom of the country. Today someone is troubled by the fact that the bridge of someone in Karlovac who saved and defended Croatian special forces is called after the thunders, we Croatian sovereigns will do anything to make these galleries, these halls of this assembly, and they have not yet marked the strong forces of the MUP, Croatian guard brigades, all defenders, units that defended, freed Croatia. When we parliamentary representatives find ourselves in the Croatian Parliament to know who we are obliged to account for, whom we thank for Croatian freedom and whose ideals we should strive for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58190	We are now going to a third debate on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club, respected colleague Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58191	Good afternoon, everyone. Since the head of Podravka, Martina Dalic, former economy minister and vice president in the past meeting of Plenkovic's government, who stepped down because of a hot mail affair, many have wondered whether the sale of Podravka followed or whether the government intends to sell its own shares in Podravka. The government rejects any possibility, but such a possibility certainly exists for all companies that are in the hands of the state, in which the state has shares because it stands in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, literally where the government has determined that by the end of 2023 it will offer a minimum of 150 companies whose current nominal value is around 850 million kuna. In the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, I quote that privatisation and sale of state assets are a strategic priority. This government therefore disowns the last levers of the development of the possibility that, through strong state-owned companies, the government means 2 months ago, deny the information that appeared in public about the sale of Podravka, these days we are monitoring the local industry of the Brothers of Pivac that enters with a large package of shares of Podravka sold by Erste Blue Pension Fund, today we will find out exactly what the package is. The brewers normally took over Kraš, a long purchase of shares in a better offer only in a worse offer because they promised workers that there would be no layoffs so that after taking over Kras they would fire several hundred radios only last year in violation of the signed takeover agreement. Kras has collapsed quality, has not invested in technology, Kras working conditions are catastrophic, wages are low. Now alleged Pivci is selling Saranovic to a Serbian tycoon who has otherwise made a better offer than the last offer, but now they are selling shares at a higher price. The brewers therefore made a fortune on the shares, obtained them along with the fraud that there will be no layoffs, the DORH has been held in drawers for more than a year and does not act on it and now such owners are entering a highly profitable company, one of the larger Croatian companies that employs more than 6,500 people. What we can expect in all companies, therefore Croatian companies of state importance, is described in the recovery plan and resistance that Btw worked on and Martina Dalic as a consultant of the World Bank, which is called nice rationalization, means fast investment in stocks and increasing profits, and how best to increase profits than by firing workers, reducing the number of jobs and reducing wages, means increasing the pressure on workers as well. In Podravka, otherwise, workers work for poor wages, in the plant they are only about 4,000 kuna, the average salary is 7,600, but the average raises the manager's salary that some say they cross over over 100,000 kuna per month. Podravka otherwise booked 15 million kuna for bonuses management in 2012, otherwise Martina Dalic as a private person buys Podravka shares. The net profit of Podravka Group is more than 20 million kuna each year, this year in the first quarter it was already over 100 million kuna, meaning the space for the salary increase is very well there, so that each worker's salary is increased 1,000 kuna, which would be 6.5 million kuna, so in the first quarter of Podravka would still have a profit greater than 100 million kuna, it certainly will not happen or will happen if we leave it to the current administration at will. Workers and workers must fight for higher wages. RF is here to help them. One good thing happened in Saponia, where after a series of actions and pressures, the management still started to raise the coefficients far from working in Saponia under easy conditions, but therefore there could be an increase in gross wages for workers by 50% and the company would still have profits. As for Orljava, Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property Darko Horvat has already announced, I quote, that it is changing philosophy towards companies that are in difficulty, meaning companies that are state-owned. But Minister Horvat, you didn't answer me why the Eagle got into trouble, how did the 30 kuna debt generate, and why won't anyone answer for it? No one has replaced a single member of the administration, no one has answered why there was a debt, but of course the state raises its hands out of everything so that it can rule out the last levers of development and ensure any economic development. This week, a minimum wage bill will be passed that will allow those who press workers to use them even more. I call upon all workers and workers not to remain silent, to seek higher wages and not to agree to even higher pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58324	We are now going to the last debate, on behalf of HNS, HSU, and independent representatives of the respected colleague Silvano Hrelja, and I ask the services just to enroll HSU in the club of representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u58325	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We are public figures, and like all our colleagues and colleagues in executive and other pillars, in executive authorities and other pillars and levels of government, we must take care of how we behave. Our words are freely moving and echoing in public space, and it is only us who pronounce them responsible for their effects on the citizens. When our words, arguments, claims, jokes, and when we say them, and when they come at us with their heads like mockery, ridicule, demeaning, there is no great harm for the citizens. But when our words cause fear, uncertainty, anxiety, mistrust, then it's harmful, it's inconceivable damage. Unfortunately, the competent institutions in the public space have recently made claims. Family homes have not achieved their goal, have not created a family atmosphere and as such will not exist in the future, drums and others alive, without any analysis of the valid data from the sleeves without written proposals of the previous debate. The following is a panic among the users, among the founders of family homes, among the families who have placed their loved ones in them and who are the only accessible solution. We have at least 20,000 upset citizens, and I personally believe that this is not the way to communicate with citizens because it is harmful. I'm interested in the following, if anyone has made an effort to separate the wheat from the weeds and to say how many family homes they do according to the rules of the profession and how much they don't. It's impossible that they're all bad, and it's also impossible that they're all good. Has anyone been monitoring their development from 2003 to today? A child is born and becomes full-aged, starts voting, 18 years old, and we haven't followed their development. Does anyone know how much has been invested so far in 500 family homes that care for more than 9,000 protégés, how much is there for the founders to achieve the standard, to reach a balance between quality of accommodation and care for the elderly and the price, which is not irrelevant? Has anyone realized that family homes are both home, geriatrics, stationary and hospice and that they have protégés that neither private or county homes usually want? Can anyone explain to me how a family atmosphere can be created in a home between 20 different ages of health and psychophysical conditions with transmitted habits and frustrations from their families? And did you notice that in the Covid-19 pandemic, family homes if, because of anything else, the risk dispersion proved less risky than other homes? I'd have more if you were this, if you were that, but I'll stop there. You know that I have advocated from this booth on many occasions and I will advocate reforming the social care system and calling for something stronger, something stronger than social care, which is social protection, which is broader, which is a broader concept. I want to, I want to, and I believe that I share your opinion, as soon as possible in this home written drafts of the law that define in a better and more responsible way this important activity for all citizens, I want a quality public debate and a reasoned debate in this Chamber, and a solution, a quality solution for the benefit of citizens. This is a speech, my speech in good faith, a speech by representatives who have been communicating with citizens for many years, whose citizens tell their problems, and I want you to accept it as an incentive for quality more, but certainly also as an appeal to everyone in public to choose words and to take care of their effects on citizens, to be better, better people, just as citizens deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60485	This brings us to the end of the position of clubs and independent representatives, and now, before we move to the agenda, we will only touch the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget has proposed the basis of Article. 247. to conduct a joint discussion on these points, these are the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds. Is anyone against this proposal? If not, we will hold a united debate on points 2 and 3 and we are now moving to the first item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project to help companies in ensuring liquidity in Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 174. The draft act shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207th Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That Article provides that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are to be adopted as a rule in one reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Honored colleague Stephen Curray to give us an additional explanation of the final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60486	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In front of us is the Draft of the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project "Help companies to secure liquidity in Croatia". The objective of this law is to achieve, of course, the confirmation of the guarantee contract for the project "Helping liquidity undertakings in Croatia", as regards some chronology, is, in March of this year, the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was given to HBOR for the conclusion of the loan agreement for that project and to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EBRD and the international bank, and the basis of those decisions was held on 25 March of this year. In April on the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a report was adopted in the lead loan talks and the EBRD Executive Directors' Board approved on 14 May a loan for the project under the following conditions, the borrower was HBOR, the lender of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the RH guarantee, the amount of the loan of 200m euros. It's 15 years' payout, including 4.5 years' payoffs. As regards maturity, i.e. half-year starting from 15.3.2026, final of 15.3.2036.g. As regards the price interest rate, the six-month Euribor increased by a variable interest rate or interest rate for the period 15.09 to 14.03.2022 is 0.16%, and the fee is starting from 0.25% for the amount of the loan and on the outstanding amount of 0.25% per year. Why do these funds have to be loaned to themselves? Therefore, the objectives of the project itself are to support the recovery of exporters in the private sector from the economic impact of the pandemic, to improve access to finance itself for companies in segments with low access to financial services and less developed regions. So here we create an additional credit potential that the HBOR will use to place these funds to our businesses above all small, medium-sized enterprises in medium capitalised, so we're talking about almost 99% of all businesses in Croatia to have access to certain funding, you'll see for which. And the third goal is to strengthen the actual institutional capacity of HBOR as development banks. As I said, the end-users of the project will be private sector companies, and one of the conditions is that they have more than 50% stakes in private ownership or under private control and that small, medium-sized, medium-capitalised therefore practically 99 companies themselves. Companies may be exporters caused by the pandemic of the disease covid-19 or negatively affected, but which are also financially sustainable. So here we are talking about a certain part and market conditions and getting funds and everything, but you will also see later on, under certain certainly more favourable opportunities that our entrepreneurs should use. Therefore, the project also focuses on companies operating in segments with low access to financial services and less developed regions and with exporters it will focus on the following companies, i.e. in less developed regions, women-owned enterprises or which are operated by women and young enterprises, so those who operate less than five years. The initial part of the 120m-euro funds will be used for loans to end-users while 40% of the other 80m euros, therefore of the entire credit potential, is conditioned by meeting certain conditions such as in the material and indicated by the impact in order to strengthen HBOR's institutional capacity, or will be paid in accordance with a given period of time. And this is the first time actually being built into a financial intermediation project for the purpose of institutional strengthening of the HBOR as a development bank. Therefore, the financial resources themselves will be used to grant credits to trade funds, primarily, financial restructuring up to 30% of total assets, and the HBOR will be able to approve it in accordance with its programmes or through co-financing models with business banks or through lending through business banks. Exceptionally, for companies operating in less developed regions to have the possibility to directly grant loans to the beneficiaries of the project, but up to 25% of the loan funds, this applies only to those in less developed regions. So this gives us some funding at the price that I have stated and we will certainly be able to place later through HBOR operations with end-users who are private companies in Croatia, thereby strengthening their ability to access themselves through the financing of projects, but not only projects of these crafts, but also existing projects and to refinance certain or inclusion in already existing processes that are in the body of business actions themselves. So here's what I'd like to conclude, in short, only exposure and I'm free to ask questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60487	Thank you, Secretary of State. Well, let's go to the replicas, there's a few of them, and the first one's a respected colleague of Lalovec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60488	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, maybe just a few technical questions. When this program will be operationalized, does that mean when it starts with what date it means when it will live? Secondly, this is a contract according to the HBOR that it will be 15 years from 4.5 years of start, what will it be according to end-users that part of the payoff plan for them? And we are interested, regarding these criteria, so this will be HBOR, which means whether these are criteria that it has already defined and the BRD, is whether, which the HBOR must apply or, given the conditions of business in Croatia, the HBOR will be more free to determine these conditions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60489	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60490	Thank you. As far as the weather is concerned, this goes into effect, of course, the Guarantee Treaty goes after, we need to publish first this National Journal, according to the House vote, then the Treaty of Guarantees enters into force after the Treaty itself has been suppressed, so we expect already that, as previously said here, we already have interest in relation to which we will pay 14.03 next year, so in the next few months it should be operational, as regards the Treaty itself. As far as end-users are concerned, so we're going to be more or less through the already existing measures that exist to place these assets, so what's important, let's say if we're talking about some conditions, there's expected to be about 2% of the interest, if you mean it, as far as the prices of these plasmas are concerned. Of course, along with that programme of existing loan insurance, premiums, i.e. subsidize for those who do not have adequate all the collaterals to cover, which is the biggest reason perhaps not to receive maybe certain financial resources, so absolutely through all the existing programs we will be able to place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60491	Thank you. Now it's time for colleagues Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60492	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, who guarantees to the Croatian public that the money from this loan that we need to get will go to the right channels, not to some dubious channels when we have cases of credit granting beyond all reasonable procedures? Because HBOR should be an example in respecting the principle of transparency, and how can the HBOR act transparently when the president of the HBOR Board is in a Kumic relationship with Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric? How can this be independent and transparent? And tell me, please, how many currently HBORs have outstanding outstanding claims?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60493	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60494	Thank you. This will be done on the basis of positive regulations and laws of the Republic of Croatia, regulations and what has been made public so far, as has been done, all legislative justifications, therefore, as well as any previous procedures which must be in accordance with the laws and regulations. If anything happens, you have the knowledge that it is not, freely, however, your duty is to report it as well. As far as this information is concerned, I'm going to have to check it out, and then later in the debate, I'm going to give you exactly the missing claims that are not charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60495	Now it's your honorary colleague Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60496	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. This is proof that indeed HBOR is the need to continue by stimulating and providing funds for entrepreneurs. When we put that in context of the last year, it can be read that HBOR had over 1809 projects that it supported with 8 billion kuna and that's an increase of over 13%. And let's also remember HBOR, made it possible among the first repayments of credit in a way that we first declared the credit oratorium, that new loans were given for the reprogramme, at 0% of the interest, and that made it possible for many entrepreneurs to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60497	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60498	Here, thank you. Yes, here, only then would I take the opportunity and expand, so surely HBOR is one of the main instruments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, if I can call there to help this crisis and pandemic and you mentioned well, moratorium, so that's about $12.8 billion last year, about 50% of the total portfolio has entered that moratorium system. Last year alone, 1.3 billion kunas of credit were given for trade funds, this year by 30.6. This amount was already 2 billion, as regards trade funds precisely in the Covid measures, with 0% interest. So there are more loan insurance, guarantees of more than 1.2 billion kuna, so surely this Bank justifies both its meaning and certainly its role in Croatia's economy is something we can use, we should also help in this way, or enable the further development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60499	Now, it's going to be replicated by a esteemed colleague, Opačak Bilic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60500	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, of course, this project is welcome in these difficult and economic times, and of course it is important to support the survival and recovery of private sector companies that are actually the backbone of the Croatian economy and should be helped in this crisis. I personally view the project as being targeted at companies operating in less developed areas, women-owned companies or run by women and young businesses. But what I'm curious about, as far as we can see from the document, the Republic of Croatia is taking a 200m-euro loan, with a 15-year-old repayment deadline, with 4.5 years of starting. I wonder if the criteria are the same for end-users. Will the 4.5-year condition begin for entrepreneurs, the users of the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60501	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60502	Thank you. You've made a good point, so this is the condition that we're in debt, or we're in charge of the credit potential. Why does 4.5 years start? I think it's absolutely clear that there's a part that needs to go through while and engage the funds to create this really real credit potential in the full range of it started and could use it not to return something that we haven't even placed yet, so we don't get one... A negative result because we have to think of HBOR as a company, actually an institution that has a commitment to do positive business, and not to create losses in, those if they were to be in debt and keep funds in account with negative interest, would practically create losses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the conditions are concerned, they will fit into everything, possibly, certain beginnings, as they have been for crafts, and in existing programmes, will be enabled depending on the specific programme. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just going to take this opportunity to win or not charged claims, the amount is 2.8 billion, which is what President Vidovic Kristo asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60503	Thank you very much. My colleague, dear colleague Blažević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60504	Thank you very much. Here I agree that these 40% of loans go to the HBOR for its institutional strengthening, and I believe that this is important because in fact the task of the HBOR is to encourage the development of the Croatian economy and its institutional strengthening, we directly influence this or increase the efficiency of the HBOR, which, of course, leads to the development of the economy. However, the purpose is also to support private companies, so it will receive a continuous approach to funding, contribute to the preservation of jobs and maintain their business. But I also think that it will have a total and significant social impact on this debate today, that is, what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60505	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60506	Here, I thank you, and above all, the effects of this debate, of course, and the transfer of information to end-users, therefore, who will be able to use it to know that they still have the opportunity to apply, refinance, get crafts on more favourable terms, not only more favourable conditions, but generally conditions, therefore, because what this is doing is facilitating access to certain, certain financial means to our entrepreneurs, therefore, through direct placement of the HBOR itself directly with entrepreneurs. As far as this part is concerned, 40%, so it is a conditional credit potential, it is not financed from this, strengthening institutional measures are not financed from these funds but from its own and other European projects, but according to certain, the completion of certain measures, 3 are the measures, groups of measures will then enable additional potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60507	Now it will be replicated by a respected colleague, Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60508	Good afternoon. So absolutely everything focuses on private companies, I'm interested in how many states will have a leverage on the supervision of these private companies, and since we've been listening to the Mother of Rome and the 1.5 billion kuna that the state will get, it's a great success, and by the way, the company whose account will be paid up doesn't even have a registered website Project 3 Mobility, it's not clear whether an autonomous vehicle will develop or we will provide private capital to buy an already autonomous and artificial intelligence for that vehicle as it actually stands in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where it says it will buy from 3 companies. But what I'm interested in is how the state enters this philosophy, so taking all the leverage out of its hands, if we take into account that France, Italy and other countries have stakes in companies that are successful here are completely meaning to take away leverage from state firms. At the same time, state-owned, state-owned enterprises are being corporated. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60509	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60510	Thank you. So, if I could understand your proposal well, I would go in the direction that if we gave someone credit to enroll in.../incomprehensible/... companies based on that loan or converting.../incomprehensible/... the model for the state to be co-owner in these parts. Of course, this is not in line with our commitment to the political and the European Commission itself, but above all with the principles of the market economy and I personally think that the state has always proved to be quite a bad master. Especially not for some market measures and activities that this should be removed clearly doubt what is of some interest to the state rather than private. As regards the control measures, of course, they exist in terms of loan approval, conditions that must be met either by a business bank or directly by the HBOR and monitoring of the payments and the development of the beginnings which, by about 2 years, is a colleague of Opaček, the distinguished representative asked that, so that all the measures that have so far been in force and all the monitorings that have been.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60511	And the last one will be replicated by representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60512	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, you have explained that the objective of confirming this contract is to facilitate access to our entrepreneurs by private, credit-based customers to be placed through HBOR. I warn that this goal cannot be achieved unless it redefines the way the HBOR operates and credits. In view of the fact that in the 10-member HBOR Supervisory Board, 6 members make up the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Finance Minister is the chairman of the Supervisory Board, taking into account the controversial loans granted to entrepreneurs who are closely connected and relocated both to the Minister of Finance and to other members of the Government, given the lack of transparency in the granting of credit and the collection of credit ratings, I believe that this contract is also another one of those who will benefit certain entrepreneurs, not all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60513	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60514	Of course I can understand, you are problematizing not only the fact that we are creating a credit potential, but also the way in which the placement is performed and under what conditions and approvals, so not only are you sitting on the HBOR Supervisory Board of Ministers, your fellow representatives also sitting. So it was from the minority that I knew about myself, so from the very establishment of HBOR, which is also the logic of things. If something is national, institutionally that those who have the responsibility of managing and oversee the work of their own institutions themselves. So all approvals have to go through and therefore on the basis of thousands of approved loans if we take out 3 which are media-interesting doesn't mean that the other 997 are bad, so 997 companies must have benefited from that, and these 3, I suppose, too, had and should have all the legal requirements, preconditions and regulations to meet it. But I'm saying if something's not free, not free, but your obligation, you absolutely know how to report all the irregularities you're familiar with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60515	I thank the Secretary of State, you can go back to your post because we're moving on with our work. I'm calling the committee reporter now, will he take his word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected counterpart Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60516	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, today the proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development means as part of the World Bank where the EU Republic is actually participating in the form of governors as our bank is so where Croatia has its share and so does the World Bank of all Member States through its institutions, and this is one of these institutions, ensuring the liquidity of the states that they then find channels through their financial institutions how to place it until, to the end-users do not have all the countries HBOR is. So Croatia is specific in that segment, we have an instrument, we know about Germany that has its so-called their development of the bank, etc., Croatia means has an instrument meaning that money at the level of the World Bank to come to, that money must be channeled to the end user, it is not a simple process, nor is it fast. But here I would like to go back to that essence of the debate, the money in Croatia has, so this is some kind of money coming from the world bank, which comes to the state to help the economy and the covid, means mostly when you have a liquidity problem, when there is no money, then you get channels to come. However, on the other hand, it is not a question of money here that we have received some 200 million Euros or about a billion kunas if the CNB together with business created enough money in the Republic of Croatia, created it enough so that, and you know that over 100 billion kunas that were created in the Republic of Croatia have returned it to the CNB's account, have returned it to the CNB's account, whether or not they finance the economy. So it's not working here that we've now got a billion and a half kuna, so here's what's going to help the economy, so there's money on very favourable terms, they're holding 0% there. Imagine 0% holding, they don't want to place it at 1% to make money, they gave it back to the CNB. Now that you see this data, what is the structure of what are the problems? The banks in the last 10 years, in the last 10 years, have been talking all the time about the function of the financial system of developing the economy of the Republic of Croatia in the last 10 years, 2010. In total, loans were paid to companies worth 103 billion kuna. That amount fell today in 2021. in June at 85 billion kuna. So everything the banks in Croatia credit to the economy with 85 billion kuna. Our GDP is 400 billion kuna, bank property is 400 billion kuna, citizens are funded with 138 billion kuna, citizens, citizens are more funded than businesses, than companies for 50 billion kuna, that's the problem. The decline, the trend in financing the financial sector's economy towards companies, is dropping. When you see these 103 billion kunas, then you can imagine how in this process there are micro and small businesses and their share of the declines. Ten years ago they had about 46 billion kuna, somewhere around 44% of the banks financed from what they funded, today they are financing micro and small businesses with only 32 billion kuna, with only 32 billion kuna. Micro-enterprises, downfall, drop in funding in the last 10 years. It's from 22 billion to 14 billion, so they gave less to micro-enterprises 8 billion kuna. And be careful, we have not only that part from 2010 until when we had a recession, but we have economic growth from 2015 to today, we have economic growth, and the share of funding for micro and small businesses falls. Small businesses fell from 24 to 18 and 6 billion kunas to less. When you see what purpose the funds were actually used here, the credits for micro-enterprise crafts and small businesses fell from 14 billion to 9.5 billion kuna and even less than 5 billion kuna for crafts. For investments, investments, bank loans according to micro and small enterprises in the Republic of Croatia is in decline in the last 10 years. From 22.6 to 17.6 it's still dropping. What do I want to say in other words? He's got money. Banks one, that basic function in the company of incentives and economic development have been transferred to the state. Who in this crisis has proved to be the only one who can act? The state has shown itself, the government has shown that it could put in funds, put in funds so the economy doesn't completely run out of liquidity. They simply retreated and gave the government a position to perform the function they really needed to perform. Now again, the government gets funding through HBOR to re-enter the system a billion and a half kuna, so it's not a matter of money, it's not a matter of price, you said that 0 to 2%, it's no longer a question of the amount of money or the price of money, right? We have a problem of permeability to reach small and medium-sized enterprises at all, that this money comes in at all, and that's a big problem to encourage the economy, for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, here is a condition that 99% of all companies in Croatia are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, can't reach certain liquidity, and they are fast and employed. These are companies that are the fastest to hire and which are actually the most active on the market, quickly run out of some, unfortunately when the crisis happens they quickly run out of funds. So here we have a structural problem where the government re-plants the corpse to finance it and it's not easy this job. What you were actually saying on the other hand, two were questions, right? How invulnerable the claims are in HBOR and there are ministers, yes. And now imagine, on the one hand, we have the pressure of all of us to give that money to small businesses, and on the other hand, you have a very high political risk of not getting that money back and then saying so there's sitting, there's this, there's that, there's a lot of irregularities, right? Why? Because HBOR has to give these funds under less conditions than what, at smaller limits, some less stringent terms than the bank is if the HBOR sets strict conditions to protect itself tomorrow so that someone doesn't call it stricter conditions no one wants to deal with it, right? Well, this money won't go up. If that less conditions than banks so say it is political influence did not come from money etc. You see what a very difficult function it is to get money at all, and few entrepreneurs want money to come to it. We all want this money to come to small entrepreneurs, so we need to find it here when we talk about these models then we need to find this model and control and the HBOR reports to this High House, according to the conditions they've actually defined. It may be a certain moment that HBOR and he makes it easier to say everything about how they're going to do it, you understand, and that it's not in some cramp that tomorrow when that money doesn't come back, it's your fault, it's hard. But we agree that we here together and support what these programs are and that that money will come is safe under these covid conditions that this money, one part of that money, will not be returned. I mean, unfortunately they don't go back to banks either, it's hard just that this crisis is deep, so these questions are how to get to the money and how to control this part at all, and then we don't want to be criticised for just throwing that money away, and on the other hand, to ask ourselves a question, so if everything's going to be done by the state and the government, and everyone else is going to get away and we don't want to finance micro and small businesses, we don't want this, we're going to be citizens, the quiet minuses for the banks are great, excellent jobs, excellent sales. So they've given more silent minuses to citizens in blockades than small and micro-enterprises for exporters, I mean what else can I tell you? They gave more silent minuses to citizens, not to the exporter who encourages the Croatian economy, which creates jobs, which creates working conditions. Here we have a serious structural problem in the economy is 30 billion kuna as they generally gave small and micro to export, for the development of Croatia, for the integration of Croatia into the European market is nothing, a drop in the sea, but important that they turned to the citizens and go there without any control. So here we have a serious and later problem and as far as the control of these funds and reports is concerned, finally and in my opinion, I call on HBOR to report later on what conditions they agreed to come. to put it very clearly and to discuss it here in the Parliament [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Break president: colleague Lalovac, thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60517	We are now going to the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleague Josip Begonja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60518	The Honorable President of HS, a respected state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Project to Help Companies to Secure liquidity in Croatia" submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the HS for adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, the HDZ Club will support this government's final proposal for that law. Introductoryly, let me remind you that the Republic of Croatia has been a full member of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development since February 1993, and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is one of the international financial institutions within the World Bank Group in 1944. with a view to eradicating extreme poverty to less than 3% of the total population and increasing prosperity by increasing income. Based on the Law on the acceptance of the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the IMF and other international financial organisations on the basis of the 1992 succession. it is determined that the Ministry of Finance is the authority responsible for cooperation with the World Bank Group and is hereby authorised on behalf of the Republic of Croatia to carry out all the tasks and transactions authorised under the statutes of those international financial institutions within the group. With that in mind, the governor for the Republic of Croatia in the IBRD is the finance minister, and the deputy governor is the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. It should also be noted that the IBRD for the Republic of Croatia is one of the most important financial institutions that continuously and versatilely supports economic and social development and further development of the market economy. If we were to analyse financial resources from the beginning of the 1990s when, as a rule, these funding sources were closed to date, we would see that the IBRD is a significant source of funding and a catalyst for our financial reform adjustments. In addition to the use of the Republic of Croatia's financial resources, the benefits and the banking advisory services, the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia with the Bank has much more than financial and broader meaning in order to maintain macroeconomic stability and achieve sustainable economic development. It is important to note that to date, the bank has approved 65 contracts totalling over 3 billion euros, which, with technical assistance in the form of gifts, is an important source of foreign financial support for the Republic of Croatia. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in March of this year opened a procedure for the conclusion of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the IBRD for that project, and on the same day on 25 March of this year, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia also gave consent to the conclusion of a loan agreement between our HBOR and the IBRD for "the project to assist the companies in the provision of liquidity in the Republic of Croatia". Furthermore, in April this year, the government also adopted a report on the leading negotiations for the conclusion of those contracts and authorised the vice-president of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the finance minister to sign the Guarantee Treaty on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. This final draft of the law confirms the Treaty on the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia for the loan agreed between the HBOR and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the lender for that project. As already stated, the loan is amounting to EUR 200 million with a repayment deadline of 15 years, as well as a beginning of 4.5. The primary objectives that the project aims to achieve are primarily to help liquidity insurance companies, primarily support the recovery of exporters in the private sector in the economy due to the impact of the epidemic, the pandemic Covid-19, improve the access to financing of businesses in segments with low access to financial services and less developed areas. Furthermore, it is to help companies owned by women or managed by women and young businesses. The third objective is to strengthen the institutional capacities of the HBOR as development banks. This includes the allocation of loans of EUR 120 million or, therefore, 60% for loans to end-users, while the other 40% of loans will be subject to meeting the conditions based on the impact of strengthening HBOR's institutional capacity as a development bank and will be paid to meet these conditions. It has already been said here, and this is that HBOR will be able to approve these loans in accordance with its programmes through co-financing models with business banks, as well as credit through business banks. The loan agreement for that project, HBOR, undertakes, as a borrower, to carry out its financial commitments regularly and fully to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, while the implementation of the Guarantee Treaty constitutes a potential financial obligation for the Republic of Croatia as regards the obligation to repay loans in the capacity of the guarantee for the sum of the total loan, interest and other costs incurred under the Loan Treaty. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, this final draft of the law confirms that the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, whose provisions become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and the law also prescribes a way to settle potential financial obligations arising from the Republic of Croatia. Finally, as I was saying at the outset, the HDZ Club will support this government's final proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project to assist liquidity insurance companies in Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60519	We move on to the 3rd debate, it's the Center and GLAS's club and respected colleague Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60520	Dear President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The adoption of this law provides for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the national legal order. The provisions of this Treaty are not disputed, but the way in which our national legal order works in the implementation of this Agreement or contract is very controversial. In his debate, counterpart Lalovac said that the money in Croatia had and that it was only necessary to secure the channel to come to those entrepreneurs who were actually in need of this contract and intended to do so. And this channel, this mechanism should function through HBOR, and my debate is aimed at saying that in the work of the HBOR there must be root structural changes, otherwise the objective of this Treaty cannot be achieved. Three important pillars and three important directions that are absolutely necessary to implement. It is necessary to remove from the HBOR Supervisory Board the decisive and prevailing influence of the policy. So we HBOR have since '92, through all this time politics has been through the supervisory board of tailors who are entrepreneurs who can get a proper credit rating from this institution. If we want the objective of this agreement or contract to be achieved internationally, the HBOR must cease to be a piece of pig exclusively for the chosen. That is, I will explain it later on in a series of concrete examples of practices that I have had the opportunity to know more about, and even decide on. The second thing we need to establish in the work and operation of HBOR is that loans are granted by the same, equal, transparent and objective criteria. The practice has just shown that where it is politically opportunised, and under a political opportunite, I consider links between the owner of the applicant for credit with the politically powerful persons, HBOR is used in a single sentence from its internal acts which says that the credit is granted logically and informally, as the management and supervisory board estimates that credit placement makes sense. And the third thing that is absolutely necessary is the full transparency of the loans and the data on how any credit has been established. Why am I saying this? Well, you'll all remember, perhaps the already forgotten case of Branko Shegon and the credit granted to his companies, it may be the first problem in the public in which we have seen how personal familiarity of the person who at that time is a senior official in the Ministry of Finance has an impact on the terms and conditions under which HBOR makes the decision to assign a placement. In this case, we had the opportunity to see that the HBOR, which in its internal acts has a strict provision that says that credits will not be granted for closing and reprogramming previous loans of a particular entrepreneur, was, in that particular case, assigned to, therefore, the closure and reprogramming of an existing loan so that the entrepreneur would not remain without the property of valuable properties which were actually at that moment practically on the drum. That is where we learned that such a decision by the HBOR made contrary to the recommendations made by the credit authorities that were processing the eligibility of the loan claim, which, by all means, suggested that the loan was to be rejected, however, this provision covering on the legal side the story that tells logically and informally served that the political influence and political decision prevailed and the credit was granted. Even worse case, we had the opportunity to see when the credit was granted to Agrokor just before the government decided to make non-transparent and very corrupt, perhaps the most corrupt law in the history of all Croatian laws, so we also saw in that case that the credit authorities that did the processing of the request within the HBOR itself, therefore the expert bodies, pointed out that these loans were very problematic, that according to the HBOR rules they should not have been assigned, but then the political decision to which the Minister of Finance himself, as chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board, said her. So without removing a political paw from an institution that should function as a single banking institution that should really protect the interests of the Croatian economy and be HBOR Croatia simply cannot move forward. If we are also talking about some controversial business decisions by the HBOR itself, it should be said that the HBOR has also granted loans to its own employees, although according to the very description of what the bank does not need to do, this should not be so. The other thing is changing internal procedures. It is therefore necessary to introduce those rules in the HBOR to prevent conflicts of interest, which are not only about officials who are members of the Supervisory Board, so it should be said that there are also HGK, who is a member of the Supervisory Board in position, except for 6 ministers from the government and 3 MPs, e.g. The rule of preventing conflicts of interest does not apply to him, so these are institutional legislative failures which, in fact, make corruption in Croatia not only easier and possible but actually make it almost expected and acceptable for social political behaviour. And the third thing is famous transparency. So, rarely which institution in the Republic of Croatia provides such resistance to the publication of data that, by law and by nature, things should be public. In time, we had a situation in which the former Commissioner for Information launched it seems to me to be about 26 or over 20 in any case, in any case, of procedures that imposed on HBOR that, at the request of interested journalists who are mainly involved in investigative journalism, we should be published in advance, publicly and transparently on HBOR's websites anyway. Since this was not the case, the Commissioner for Information had to order the HBOR to publish its data, the HBOR opposed it, he filed administrative charges, generally at lower levels of the complaint fell, which led to the need to reach out for extraordinary legal medicines at some point. In short, in the end, it was the Supreme Court that was in 2019, now watch the timeline, 2019. instructed HBOR to publish data on all loans granted from 2010 to 2013 along with information on how any credit has been charged. Why am I saying that? If there is such a level of non-transparency, this means that neither the public, nor the citizens, nor the entrepreneurs to whom this bank should serve cannot in fact know in whose interest the HBOR is working, and we have had too many opportunities to see how privileged treatment has been given to policy-related entrepreneurs, that I am not talking about which number of parliamentary representatives have received loans for their companies or for companies members of their family. If only we could introduce the transparency that the ruling boasted during this term, we would have led to the fact that the HBOR must regularly and up-to-date publish all contracts in such a way that they are available in pdf. the format because such loans do not represent, must not represent a business secret, these are contracts with one public authority, should also be shown in one open database all payments and all payments by all credits and all contracts concluded to see which entity must meet its own credit obligations, and which state is granted money unilaterally. So, as long as we don't meet those three conditions, so the change in HBOR structure in a way that the policy is thrown out of the supervisory board, the change in internal acts defining business conditions and the third thing, the full transparency of contract and payment data, this international agreement simply doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60521	We are now going to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, respected colleague Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60522	Good afternoon, everyone. I would refer a little bit to the Secretary of State's answer to my question which is on the trail of what some here have warned, meaning the criteria of granting such loans, but also to say that what has been imposed here as an impact of politics and perhaps not a rational policy related to the World Bank itself and what is well-warned is the existing possibility that money exists with us to finance such projects. It would also warn of the constant warning of the ruling or the constant mantra we have literally heard here, the state is not a good master. So in the crown crisis, we have seen that the only country has the ability to maintain the economy, when the dense state helps and I have to admit that it even surprises me a little bit by the secretary of state who in any other situation will defend the state as the one that has given a lot of support to entrepreneurs that here they will say that the state is not a good master. So many examples deny it, so we have a situation with many countries that show good lords, here I'm going to give you an example of Italy where you have an Italian state that has a stake in Fitzatieri's largest shipyard, the same situation you have in France where the French state has stakes in shipbuilding also in Peugeot. The German state holds stakes in Volkswagen, Germany also holds Croatian telecoms and it is shown that the German state can be a good master here with us, but the Croatian state cannot. In any case, this is a philosophy that extends from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where it says that the state will in the next two years give up 150 to the firm, that those companies it has in its own hands, as it is said in the National Recovery and Resistance plan, will corporateise the logic of the functioning of these companies, and on the other hand, very strictly separates the private sector from the state sector. So state firms have to operate the way private firms do, but here means when we have a loan-sharing deal, now private firms have the advantage here. Okay, we can tell private firms to fight on that market, no one will protect them even though it's absolutely no longer the case if you take into account the situation in Orljava where Minister Darko Horvat, who is not the economy minister, but who has been assigned this problem because apparently specializing in closing the firm says, we won't do that anymore, the state will no longer help the companies that own it, is changing it says philosophy to companies that are in trouble although it should be the one that fits why this company once very successfully got into trouble, why we came to the fact that it generated a debt of 30 million kuna because their corporate administration was supposed to be responsible for that no one was removed. But okay, so I'm saying, we can say here we have private companies fighting on the market and we're going to set some other rules for them now. There are two problems, so the first thing that is said here is the influence of politics, and the second one is the logic that my colleague Lalovac has indicated where money comes from. So the World Bank is a source of funding, but we do, and that's hopefully when the Prime Minister of the CNB comes in here we're going to ask him these questions, so there's a generated amount of savings money, not only of the CNB, but of individual savings. Otherwise, the richest have saved another 11 billion kunas in just one crown a year, but the money is not invested so it does not encourage investment but is very conservative, which is classics and in all other crises it does not invest because that money is being saved. But what was indicated here is the influence of politics. So the first question of how much HBOR will monitor exactly what is being financed, the state here is a guarantee, but not in other cases there is no excessive surveillance, we simply have to be honest and open to say that the biggest scandals in the country are linked to the private sector and allocated financial resources to the private sector, so it is not some homogeneous group that is great, which saves our country already there are those who are privileged and those who use that position. So who's going to be getting the funding from the biggest affairs are linked exactly to supporting private firms. The financing of the development of companies of general importance of the social interest to HBOR loans has not been the case until now, so agriculture, shipbuilding, pharmaceutical industry, these are segments that we would need, and this in the crown crisis is already being divided along the political line. It's mostly policy-determined, isn't it? Since the beginning of the story of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we have heard about 1.5 billion kuna intended for Mother Rome. What exactly Mate Rimac should do with those 1.5 billion kunas is clear to whom, although there is a very positive climate around this investment. It can be established that we are here in total darkness, what we can see means in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan that a large part of this money will be bought here by an autonomous system, as well as by an artificial intelligence system for autonomous vehicles. But the question is whether or not we are going to develop this autonomous system, as well as an autonomous driving system or what I warn you to read in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where it literally stands will buy this autonomous system from the three largest companies that sell it abroad. So we're not going to develop anything, there's no technological development, there's no investment in scientific research, there's no progress but literally means outsoring purchases for the big money of that autonomous system, and it's not even going to buy Rimce's company, but as it stands in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, a company called Project 3 Mobility and Google, so you're going to see that when you get to Google's results for that company, you go to the site of that company, there's standing under construction, so the company doesn't even have a website. So we don't know who we're paying those funds to. It's a nice climate for what, media, complicated about the whole story, but it can be found that again it's the same situation as in a hundred other situations where we had a hunt in a blur where we later found that big money went to someone's private pockets. We, the state, have nothing since this investment. It's not a project of public interest. In addition to even asking wider questions, 700 autonomous vehicles on Zagreb streets that have no infrastructure? So you shouldn't invest in public transport, electric chargers, etc.? So in many of these situations, under some very advanced entrepreneurship agenda, there is actually a fog sale. The state, so it can be a good master, right, and the state as a bad master is only when the state wants to be a bad master, which is unfortunately the case here. The Coronary of Support has shown that no one but the state can save the Croatian economy and only the state can be that agent, that initiator of economic development, but it must be a working state, it must be a state where the HBOR of its own behind those projects that are socially beneficial, which contribute to that social majority, and not to private entrepreneurs, and that it actually guarantees that these coins end in private pockets. This is about a case where the investment itself should be questioned, so I'm going into agreement with the World Bank if we have, as my colleague Lalovec said, and the resources that we could allocate to, but it does mean the influence of politics and the context in which we are heard from the Secretary of State, something that I don't think we should ever hear again, which is, the state is a bad master, the state is giving up its own hands from its companies, the state is letting Orljav finish, the company that was very useful, which could have done business with the state and its big problems that nobody knows how they came up, 30 million kunas, which aren't even problems at all, but these are the problems that give the state the legitimacy to come out of all companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60523	This is what we came up with at the end of the club debate. Now we move on to individual debates. The first is the respected colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60524	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing putting additional burden on Croatian citizens because we are re-locating credit and borrowing today and future generations, because, as is known, the HBOR guarantees the state of Croatia, i.e. Croatian citizens, at 100%. If we had a guarantee that these funds would end with those who need them and those who work honestly and create new values, then, of course, I would give full heart support to this Law. But HBOR doesn't work transparently. The only thing that's transparent about HBOR's work is abuse and violation of norms and it's unwrapped, open and arrogant. Because how do you justify the next fact? If, in December 2016, there is a prohibition issued by the CNB on the lending of Agrokor and HBOR professional services give the Supervisory Board an assessment of HBOR's credit rating as the highest, etc. Triple-A, and propose a loan of more than 300 million kuna, then it is clear to everyone that professional services have worked by order and falsified reports or are completely out of line with their business and should be fired. In regulated systems where laws are respected, things like this go to jail. A few days ago, another person was arrested in connection with the case of the German Wirecard affair in Singapore because it was found to have been involved in the counterfeiting of the balance sheet. If a body that is obliged to oversee someone's business ignores facts in order to falsely display a business picture, it is a criminal offence. The result of such operation by HBOR is that HBOR has billions of outstanding and credits obtained. Because, as we know, the political caste in the Croats allows for something called credit write-off and those for millions of similar entrepreneurs. The astronomical amounts written down, for example, by Mesic's Nexa group, are known. But when an ordinary citizen, such as The Stryacki family from Zapresic is late to pay only a few war loans, then there are no mercys, but they are driven by specialists from the house. - By the way, Mrs. President. He's a strict oncology patient. Let us also mention another fact that removes all doubts about the way HBOR operates, when the windman Krš-Pajene credited, professional services refused to lend the project. At the time, former Secretary of State Josipa Rimac arranges an appointment with the chairman of the HBOR Supervisory Board and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, who accepts meeting with the company's director, but sets the condition, which is to keep the meeting in 4 eyes. The trustee partner of the finance minister later became a fugitive from the Croatian judiciary, and the project is subject to EU research by the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have HBOR, so all other countries have similar institutions whose task is to support their own economy and create new jobs. However, the HBOR does not play its part. He does not support the best and most valuable, he supports similar and privileged, and that is the Croatian problem, because every kuna that is written off is a kuna taken from our taxpayer who has bloody earned it and should be made clear. All of you who participate in this corrupt system commit a great sin against the Croatian and your own people. You have no right to do so, and the time of the bill will come. I am against the agreement of this treaty because these money will end up in dubious and corrupt channels as it has been, not in the development of the Croatian homeland, and improving the standards of Croatian citizens as it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60525	We're going to the 2nd individual debate, now a colleague of Bernardic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60526	Dear President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I think it is good to talk about HBOR today, about an institution that should be significant for Croatian and Croatian entrepreneurs, it is not today. It is today non-transparent, it is today extremely problematic and one that does not provide Croatian entrepreneurs with loans so that they can do normal business. This law is primarily something Croatia has rights to because we are in world financial institutions and flows, but the real question is what benefits Croatian entrepreneurs will have from this law. It'll benefit as much as it has done so far, small or almost nothing. Does anyone know of an honest little or medium-sized businessman who doesn't operate on a state manger who's got a loan from HBOR? I'm in contact with a lot of people, entrepreneurs, and I don't honestly know anyone. HBOR's credit has become like eating, everyone's talking about him, and no one's ever seen him before. If the HBOR also gives loans, I guess it does so for a group of selected ones because every entrepreneur, be assured, in Croatia simply cannot come. Here we have just heard from one of the previous discussions that the current Minister of Finance and in alleged Kumic relations with the president of the HBOR administration, I will not study it, so let the media deal with it. But what we also heard was that it was discussed the approval of HBOR's loan for a wind power plant project that turned out to be a major affair. What we also know is that in 2016, Minister of Finance Maric, the current minister, approved 400 million kuna of HBOR's loan then to the fallen Agrokor, a company that he recently worked in. Afterwards, the company collapsed, 400 million kunas went simply into the wind, and he, like any honest former employer, stabbed a large knife in the back of his boss, Ivica Todorovic, who paid him fat in Agrokor. So, HBOR is, as necessary, the ATM of the finance minister, where our colleague Stjepan Curaj came to defend this proposal because they sent it, but the fact is that what he is also aware of is that the HBOR unfortunately does not meet its purpose, and has become its own purpose. So, although HBOR offers different credit packages that are unclear whether entrepreneurs are supposed to report to HBOR or to go through commercial banks. What is clear is when they report to the commercial bank, the bank generally does not offer HBOR subsidy programmes but is pushing its own placements. Sometimes they're more comfortable with HAMAG's guarantees because HAMAG is much faster. But what they still offer and take with HBOR guarantees is totally unacceptable, they take additional guarantees such as personal guarantees, such as collateral, real estate insurance, guarantees of all potentially linked companies, which is unacceptable and which limits both investment and business activity of all stakeholders involved and in entrepreneurial activity, but also in the guarantees themselves. So banks have also become their own purpose, they place their money on the state that pays dearly, they place it on citizens who raise expensive housing and consumer loans, not those who should be placed on the market, which is the economy. The money, as we've heard, there is. There is too much, but the money in the economy does not end, and without money in the economy it is simply not possible to start a new investment cycle, nor have only sustainability of economic activity in Croatia, and what is most important, to achieve full employment and guarantee low unemployment. So the question is also when these HBOR loans are at stake, and these are loans that are supposed to go for liquidity, which are criteria and who will get that money, who will get that money and what are the criteria. Whether this loan will end, for example. as a reconstruction of Zagreb or this loan will end e.g. as a reconstruction of Banija or this loan will end as funds from European funds which entrepreneurs also, the largest number of them have not even seen. One thing's for sure where that loan won't end. It will not end up in the accounts of honest small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Croatia. And in this country, one must stop looking for the culprit for bad decisions and failures of those most responsible in this system, which are not banks. The most responsible is the government, prime minister, finance minister and economy minister. So it's their job to find a way to get the money from the banks he has to get to the entrepreneurs he needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60527	Thank you very much. We're going to the third individual debate, dear colleague Brumnic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60528	Dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Looking at this proposal, in fact, one should conclude that everything is fine, that everything is 5, but when you look at the wider context, then you actually start to understand where the problem is, so I'm going to try to simplify it. The first problem is the government, the government is not doing its job, and once upon a time near Draskovic was a good graphite that spoke to TZV or should be known to rule. This government can't rule, this government can't rule. We are a member of the EU today, the financial markets are available to us, which also shows that we have excellent financial conditions, that we have financial resources in our own system, but we do not use them. My simple question to all of you, who the hell borrows money from the bank if they're home? And that's what we do. We're taking money from outside today, regardless of what our financial system, as our colleague Lalovac used to say at the beginning, has more than enough resources and there's no one to place them on. Our other key problem is except that the government doesn't know how to rule is the fact that this government is afraid of itself. That's what her member here said today, the state is a bad master. Imagine someone who says to himself that he's doing a bad job. If we are somewhere in the normal system, that is, if we are in a leading position on behalf of the state, that is, the name of the citizens should resign. If he's in a private company, he'd probably be fired by the owner of that company the same day, and then you get another problem. They said the same thing about him, which is the fact that in this country development is random. That in this country we don't know where we want to go. And Europe would probably also help us if we knew where we wanted to go, but with us, the development of everything that's going on happens by accident, and then you have at the end of HBOR. Everyone was talking about HBOR's problems, his intransparency. You know, intransparency actually stems from his political mission. Literally political missions because there is no economic mission. The economic mission would be tied to the Croatian state as soon as the Croatian state had a development plan and a development idea of what it would do, and it does not, and then the only thing left is political decision-making and allocation of funds by political key. What you're nobody here on the side of the ruling, and even those representing the government didn't ask a question, or he didn't even try to give an answer, why some Croatian entrepreneur doesn't have access to the capital that our banks have provided, I would say, our CNB? It's a very simple question. Why do you not manage what you need to manage? And then when you talk about the promotion of exports, so 90% of what we call today is still exports to EU countries that are today our common market where we compete under the same conditions under which everyone else is competing within Europe. And then one such interesting thing as how important this country is, or how wrongly it manages, is the fact that we are a country in which GDP in 2020 was about 360 billion euros, if I am not mistaken, and the 2021 budget is 193 billion euros. So more than 50% of everything that's going on in this country, it's going on, it's coming out of the country. And now finally what this government has led to in its management, that's what many before me have mentioned, but not so clearly defining, I've already said it several times here, we're playing the risk game is ours, and the profit is yours. In this case The profits of the banking system, [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Okay. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60529	You have a replica of one, so you can add that. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60530	Yeah, well, I just wanted to reach out, so you said that the Croatian government can't rule and that it admits it itself, they say, we're a bad master so if someone admitted it to a company, I don't know how to work, they'd get fired, but a government that says it's a bad master, it's clapping and nothing's happening to it. But she would ask one question, and I think when the government says she's a bad master and we say that the government doesn't know how to rule, we amnestize her for what's going on on in the field, and the government knows very well what she's doing and that she's doing very well what she's drawn for herself because you have this in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The government is giving up all levers of economic and economic development. Why? I agree with all these criticisms that are being sent here. It is often a primitive political influence, but even here it is a matter of full denial of any responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60531	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60532	Well, thank you. I've spoken several times about the government's programs actually found that this is a more or less PR government. And that's the answer to everything. As you said, that this government disowns responsibilities or says, I do not want to be responsible for anything, and the only thing it does is create fog and petrify the eyes of Croatian citizens. We listened several times from this pay phone to the Croatian government and gave it to Croatian citizens. Today we got, or yesterday you have the information, that out of the 12 billion that were given to Croatian citizens, which I said several times, de facto 8 billion were received from Europe. If you say to those 8 billion that 25% of VAT and other contributions were paid, then practically the other 4 billion that this government gave came from that money. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60533	The next debate will be respected representatives of Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60534	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, honorable secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. All this talk of opposition is tragic, not true, and it doesn't show the true state of affairs. Instead of saying you see in this mandate more than 700,000 jobs have been preserved, this mandate has preserved and at the time of Covid 120,000 entrepreneurs they are problematizing here about this loan which is very much helping these entrepreneurs again. This is where your colleagues say here, so why don't you take it from the home CNB bank and get it over here and over there. So they don't know the basic, elemental methods and banking system and otherwise the monetary system of Croatia because whether you can own, whether you want to lend your private money to someone oxy without having any security for it. So if you saved your money, you left that money in the bank, and that bank corresponds with its assets, with your business to pay you back when you want it. Therefore, this is about EUR 200 million borrowed from the IBRD and which can be channeled right into entrepreneurship. And what's HBOR? Well, it's just a bank that needs and is authorized by this high house to help entrepreneurs in a way that is well-managed by these same means. When we compare that in 2020, HBOR supported 1809 projects, and it does 8 billion kuna, and that's more than 13% compared to 2019. At the end of March of the first measure Covida-19, therefore the rapid response was made to enable moratorium and reprogramme existing and approval of new ones with 0% interest. Also, a new way to secure a loan where it takes 90% of the guarantee from the risk of repaying the loan, 90% of the guarantee. The majority of the approval concerns the lending of €5.5 billion of 1328 projects. What does that mean? According to the structure of the loans granted at that time, it was in this amount of credit that was most precisely the ones that were approved for investment. So compared to 2019, when these loans were 19% in these reprogrammed so with the substance 49% was precisely in those loans to preserve production and new technologies and new employment. So, what are you talking about? In addition, due to the implementation of the measures, Covid HBOR implemented certain programmes directly. The number of direct credits granted has increased by 2.5 times compared to 2019 and 4 times compared to 2018. For what? Because of the speed, and then it happens that someone's having problems giving it to, to whom it's given, how it's given. Well, HBOR is a bank like another bank and according to the Law on Access to Information, it cannot only give flyers about who it is and why it has institutions, so it has supervision, so it has a Croatian Parliament to control it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60535	We have one replica, a respected representative of Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60536	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you just said what we said, that's all you said. Yeah, you just said that on the side of the HDZ. [[Don't God.]] And you said that this way to simplify those who listened to you. HBOR is a HDZ bank of bitches. Why? Because in private banks, banks have to be careful who they give the funds to, and they don't have to in HBOR. You said we don't understand the system, the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia, the CNB enabled the liquidity of Croatian banks to place these funds to the Croatian economy. What is the government's task is to create circumstances and conditions that can be done in a quality and transparent way. The government didn't do it, the private bank said I don't have any security for a placement, and you agree entrepreneurs with HDZ And take the funds from HBOR for, which will eventually [[Intruder: Thank you.]] pay Croatian citizens. [[Thank you, colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60537	Comrade Brumnic, thank you so much, so you can't look at 10 seconds more, if everyone like that, please, let's not, let's not, let's not do this. Here you are, dear MP Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60538	Thank you very much. It was your governments who gave direct loans, and the HDZ government recommended that HBOR share the risks with business banks, so not only direct loans are given. Therefore, you know it very well. And what HBOR has to answer is exactly what you've been asking, how it works and how it operates, so it's also a bank that has to take care of how business is and how much return it is, but it also gives huge benefits in a way that ensures as well as for example. the shipbuilding saved by this government and this HBOR.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60539	And now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60540	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Just as short as always a reference to exposure, so we'll sort things out. So, the esteemed representative of Lalovac, I think, has just said what the taste is and the topic of today's agenda and this point of confirmation, so he found he had money, but the problem is not in money and the price of money, the problem is in getting the same and the state takes the role and commitment to make it easier to get financial instruments or easier to get financial funds for our entrepreneurs because, despite what we heard here, calling for certain nationalisations of banks or directives on how to do their money, we will not and can't do that. So no one can tell you that you have to give someone money, you, yours out of your pocket or any other. Those times are over if they've ever been and thank God it hasn't happened again or ever happened. And so to the banks, it wasn't the CNB that gave the banks money, but it bought what they paid for and gave them more liquidity. And as they have their resources, it is the bank's policy and if the bank does not approve with risk, then it is the issue of the state, the HBOR to reduce that risk and enable the inflow of funds to entrepreneurs, and that is the reason and purpose of functioning both HAMAG-Bicro and HBOR. So also the most respected representative of Lalovec here has troubled these risks and ways of interpreting it. We are speaking here with no users, the esteemed representative Bernardic how it will be shared, as it has been so far. In the past year, the distinguished representative Peric said over 1800 users of various products, HBOR of which over a thousand loans themselves, over 3 billion and 300 million kunas were placed only last year. The issues that have arisen about so this is our role, this is our task to provide funds and place them, to provide collateral through insurance funds, to subsidized premiums of these insurances to those who can't get it regularly in regular banks, regardless of what banks have money to do, whether they assess their risks in a different way, especially in a post-crisis or still not in crisis, but in this post-pandemic crisis period as regards the economy, the pandemic is still going on. As far as the first one is concerned, I think the esteemed representative Oreshkovic mentioned Agrokor, so Agrokor did not also receive the esteemed representative Bernardić loans, rather than companies in Agrokor. At present, it is about 500 million kunas which are well secured and which should be charged according to the plan that entered and started and as it had already started they remained returned so that there were no funds lost on this side and the HBOR was very well secured on the matter and collateralised and on the very return of these amounts and in the end the company under the new name continues to work. As far as the esteemed representative Peovic is concerned, I can absolutely understand her position as a political one, which although fellow HSS liberals may not be on the same track even though they are in the club, but I can realistically understand this interpretation of my country statement as a bad master, and when I said nicely in what sense I said, you are now interpreting that the state is an excellent master and that I am saying something wrong. The facts deny you, and I spoke in relation to market business because we have been given a definition and I don't know who will clearly laminate me here that the state should manage certain market activities that can be reduced to catering, tourism, various service other activities, etc. The state has nothing to look for and until now it has proved that wherever the state acts as the owner of a company that works on a market basis is not good in the extreme line or desirable and in this aspect you interpret that statement, rather than spreading around that the state is not well ruled or I don't know what else you've pulled out of what kind of things you don't know. And the fact that we here today are saying that someone is giving us 200 million euros on such 0.16% interest is that they're probably all interpreters, so to us who don't know we're giving money that way because we're pretty. Well, surely the reason for good governance and public finances and leading in a period of crisis and work so far and not only this government but all of what was good and upgrades has led to us having extremely low interest rates, extremely good credit ratings so they don't just do it because someone told them because you first here would immediately use the argument of a credit rating as a bad indicator of government work, but when that's good, it has nothing to do with the government. There's a bad government. It can't go either way, however it pleases anyone. As for the esteemed representative Vidović Kristo, declaring that all thieves are not well because if we're having problems with two, three plasmas it doesn't mean that 1800 from last year are thieves. It's not good for them. And once again, I say if there's anything that's problematic, there's someone who needs to deal with it. Dear Representative Brumnic, as far as more or less of this is concerned, I explained to the CNB, as regards capital, as far as money is concerned, the terms of what I can say only I do not want to elaborate here now, and I have all the information regarding HBOR's business on Friday is on the parent board of the business report for the past year, and you will see here only the report so that I will not enter the details themselves. I think it is very clear that this concludes that we are providing credit potential to help, in order to enable further development of the economy, liquidity aid in obtaining crafts, in refinancing under more favourable conditions where otherwise perhaps, not perhaps, but almost not regularly with business banks. That's our goal, that's our mission, and that's why we're working here today and where we're in charge of conditions that are more than favourable, which we as a state stand as guarantees that these money will be returned. This is our task and this is the purpose of the state, to enable a framework, a statue behind our entrepreneurs and let them work alone, not to enter their structures of governance, governance structures, ownership and work for them, would you say in that context that the state is a bad master. That we take over companies and we manage them, so in what sense, in which sense, who's here now that, at all, I mean, I understand colleague Peovic, it's their political discourse, but I'm surprised to some respected other MPs if I know we were part of and coalition, and we never thought of doing it, though. But it's fair to say that I represent it, someone represents nationalisation, the planning economy, etc., and then according to that, it does, and this is all just a blur. Here's what I can finally say that in front of the proposer we accept the no-technical amendment of the committee... Yeah, for the next one, I'm sorry then for the next one that, okay, that's it, thank you. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60541	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60542	Your Honor, first of all, the Secretary of State, you have denied yourself several times. First, you said the loan wasn't approved by Agrokor, but by his related companies, so it's not a neck. Then you said it didn't happen again, I guess, thinking about that time that Grozdana Peric mentioned, and she explicitly said, explicitly, that while the SDP government was in favour of HBOR loans, and now that the new government has arrived, they're being sent for loans to banks, so they don't approve of HBOR loans and you explicitly admitted it today. You admitted that now that you responded in your presentation by confirming that it was approved in the last year of 1000 loans. So you know what 1,000 credits are? 1,000 credits to a bank in one week, so HBOR obviously didn't do his job, and your job isn't to give political evidence to the MPs because you could have done it while you were a representative, before your party failed when you sold to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60543	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60544	Thank you, dear colleague Bernardic, forgive me, just to... about this party's collapse and the situation in the parties, I find this a little ironic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Uh, so when I was talking about past times, I was thinking about times of social self-management of communism and everything that was in the planning economy before not now this part. So, as far as these over 1800 different users took advantage of different products last year, only one of them was direct, direct lending. So I'm actually more or less behind what's been said. Of course my task here is to inform the public what is really true and precisely so I understand it and as my obligation, not only as a official but only as a man who always tries not to be, but always and is honest with those things and to decide what is true and what is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60545	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60546	Okay, you've been trying to discredit my political commitment by saying that you fully understand it, but that we can't talk about nationalisation here, about economics, about the planning economy, etc., I've never used a word of nationalisation or a planned economy, I'm surprised that my SDP colleagues are talking about commercial banks so that we should finance entrepreneurship in Croatia, which can be really only nationalisation, but they probably won't say that, but nobody really mentioned the nationalisation of banks. But what I asked you, so you say the state is not a good master and then you say so we can't host, tourism at all, I haven't talked about hospitality and tourism at all, you're in power, so the state owns the textile industry of the Eagle. The state was the owner means majority owner of Podravka, etc., so these are the companies you're already talking to them we're not a good master, so in 1800 users, I agree with you, not all thieves So there's a system corruption that you're having with your application and you're not a good master. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60547	The answer of the esteemed Secretary of State Curray. Thank you very much. All right, please, come on, let's make a deal right now. We're gonna stick to the Rules of Procedure, or we're not, or everyone's gonna talk any way they want. So finally gather around and stick to the Rules of Procedure that we've all adopted. Everyone can talk 10, 15, 20 seconds longer very easily and then when we get to the line and then we'll talk about some important points coming in at 10 o'clock in the evening, and we'll get very upset, alarming the public about it, right, and we won't stick to the order. So let's all stick to the line, please. Here you are, the answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60548	So thank you. First of all, I think I've explained this about the role of the state in the ownership and management of certain market entities or entities on the market that are not of strategic importance, infrastructure or some, knows what the state must take care of and what is its task. This simply says the facts and this tells history that, ultimately, what there is no state to look for or in the production of any market segments of our citizens' users on this European market, rather than to encourage and create frameworks, to let people themselves work and to work, and not to restrict them in any way, and that is the purpose of this, so to go to nationalize or to manage anything the state has shown itself during these 30 years. And before and anywhere in the world, not just with us, that it's not really smart and it's not good, I'm not talking about strategic branches.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60549	The Republic has a respected representative, Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60550	Well, dear Secretary of State, when we say we should know how to rule, then we're talking about the same thing right now. You said create a environment, of course the task of you managing is to create circumstances in which the Croatian economy will be able to obtain financial funds from Croatian banks because Croatian banks, when I say Croatian, then operate on Croatian soil, of course there are no Croatian banks all sides, there are security charges. What's the problem, you didn't create circumstances. When you say you got a favourable credit from the outside, yes, you got it, I said it a few times, we're a member of the EU today, and yes, from that title we're better at credit rating. What is the problem, which when you misplace this loan, these money will be returned by Croatian citizens and that is the key problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60551	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60552	Okay. Here, now we come to what is really the subject itself, so we need to be aware of the circumstances in which our economies are doing business today, about the circumstances of the crisis, of course, if the health aspect limits someone's work, it's completely understandable, we need to create and give further frameworks to help. That's exactly the point. We are not here now and the whole world and the Eurozone, or the whole of Europe in, recorded a negative growth in the economy, or a decline in GDP because I don't know what she was mismanaging. We know the reasons, we know why we're doing this. So, absolutely today we allow all the economies that are both exporting and having liquidity problems and because of the impact of this economic crisis, the mini crisis that was, we give a framework to help them for, and where business banks cannot or do not want to because of the conditions of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60553	A colleague, Brumnic, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60554	Well, the Registrar is hurt that the secretary of state isn't talking about the subject at all. So what he's trying to answer me about right now is not at all the subject of this debate. Don't be angry, but the moment they find themselves in unguarded grapes, they turn to a completely third topic that is not the subject of debate. I'd like you to warn the speaker when he does that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60555	Comrade Brumnic, I warn you and give you a reminder according to article. 239 and don't do that. ... No, you didn't even call for an article that, starting at all, let alone go on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear representative Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60556	Dear Vice-President, Secretary of State, so I think it is a clear goal of this Act, which is that, to support exporting in the private sector from the economic impact of the pandemic Covid, they have improved access to finance for the company... weaker access to financial services and less developed regions and strengthen the institutional capacity of HBOR. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand the opposition to talk about some sort of... I think the government is doing well their job and all those entrepreneurs who have used, or the loans they have received in this pandemic now that they know very well that without the help of the Government would have a lot of businesses, entrepreneurs failed and I simply don't understand why the government would do a bad job and that the government would be a bad businessman, I think that the government is a very good businessman, especially in this crisis 2020 where it is shown that it really did its good job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60557	Dear.....incomprehensible secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60558	Dear Representatives Dreven Buddinski, therefore it is absolutely the right of every MP to trouble and point out what he thinks is important, changes, suggests, proposes in the way he sees it and mine is to give frames and return to the very part of the agenda point, regardless of whether it is true, incorrect and everyone is using their political position to promote certain policies. What is crucial here, important, what is essential, is that this guarantee contract opens up a credit potential that will benefit our entrepreneurs, small, medium-sized enterprises, medium-capitalised enterprises, 99% & so we absolutely show ourselves as someone who uses all of their mechanisms that should be used on the interests of citizens, ultimately, but here entrepreneurs and in this segment are examples of good governance and good behavior. Of course, what can always be misused and spoken honestly remains public to interpret itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60559	The Republic also has a respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60560	Thank you very much. Well, Madam Secretary of State, I think these colleagues are forgetting what it was like in 2020 and that the impact of the pandemic and here, unfortunately and earthquakes, has reduced the company's revenues by 50, 70, 90% and worse. Therefore, when the government decided on this model, it actually provided an opportunity to further assist entrepreneurs and find cheap sources of funding, which actually enables everyone to get liquid assets, and not only those who can justify it to commercial banks. In addition, they forget that in previous years, the government has given more than 2.7 billion kuna to save shipbuilding and more than 4.5 billion to protest guarantees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60561	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60562	Here, thank you. Yes, in the context of last year's approved loans, it certainly needs to be looked at in the pandemic climate itself, the state of the economy, the decline of all economic activities, so I think it's unconditional to repeat it here. We're giving this absolutely new opportunities, new credit potential. Of course, the different proposals here were a year and a half ago how to help, I think that in an adequate way, in accordance with the opportunities we had, even absolutely faced and put both here as a rule and quite a consensus in voting both certain and measures and aid and in the extreme line, we turned, with examples like this and opportunities for our entrepreneurs and citizens. So, of course, we can problemize some other things, but it's hard to give 1,000 good things, which 1001 can't mark and be subject to these 1,000 beings, be troubled as something bad. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60563	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Dear MPs and MPs, as we decided this morning, we are now going to a united debate on the following two points, which is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 151 and - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Alternative Investment Funds Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 152; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60566	Thank you, Vice President. Therefore, according to how you have stated and stated a united debate on the final proposals of the Open Investment Funds Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Alternative Investment Funds Act. As we also had our first reading here during May, I will only remind myself of exactly what the amendments to these laws are now in the second reading. First of all, the provisions of the directive relating to cross-border distribution of entities for joint investments are transposed into the Croatian legal system, but there are also assumptions for the implementation of the regulation on facilitating cross-border distribution for both the law and the law. So, in general, both acts are aimed at removing precisely these obstacles, as regards trading itself in cross-border investment funds as well as at harmonising different practices in Member States compared to just cross-border trading of the funds themselves. Of course, above all, as they would have said most simply, introduce equal rules of play for all so that someone may not be in favour of cross-border trade in another Member State than that, these rules of the game to say so in the Member State in which they are carrying out their activities. Therefore, with the administrative and regulatory disbursement of the alternative investment funds themselves, the scope of increasing the transparency of national requirements relating to trade itself and to increasing investment protection is ensured. So, something that has already been done through various directives and regulations at EU level is that it wants to go to maximum transparency in the protection of investors in the final and citizens, but on the same side and at the same time increasing the ability of placements, liberalisation and that as much as possible is used to invest especially in these crisis periods. So there are two different sides in which we want to encourage as much activity in the capital market as possible, with the greatest security of investors themselves. In the end, what we know is that through the last financial crisis, it can be very easily passed on to the citizens themselves. As far as I'm concerned, first of all, I'm going to talk about amendments and additions to the Alternative Investment Funds Act, short-term AIF. It is an investment fund set up by the management company of the alternative investment fund itself with the purpose and purpose of raising funds to the public or private offer from investors and investing those funds in accordance with a pre-defined strategy and objective of investing the alternative investment fund, and the sole benefit of the holders of the share of that fund. In the Republic of Croatia, 36 alternative investment funds run by 18 companies currently operate and with 30.6. their assets are 4.9 billion kuna. Unlike an open fund with a public offering, it is allowed to invest in a wider range of assets here with alternatives. So he can be recognized as open and closed. Open in the Republic of Croatia do not have legal personality, and the closed have been established as a limited company and a limited liability company, and you will see in these changes itself a new option is introduced, which is the establishment of a command society. They may offer shares in the form of stock companies established, they may offer a public or private offer, with a private offer intended for those professional, specialised or professional investors or qualified. As regards harmonisation with the acquis, it relates here to the cross-border distribution mentioned, to the directives, thereby ensuring that the regulation to facilitate cross-border distribution is implemented, i.e. the objective of that Directive and the regulation, and consequently, and the law is to remove identified regulatory barriers in the functioning of the EU single market specifically for these alternative investment funds. That's exactly what I was saying. Therefore, there it was seen with this that it was necessary to ensure equal and transparent conditions precisely with this, for the purpose of facilitating these cross-border activities and of course increasing the protection itself. It was also seen that the meaning of these Directives and of the regulation that it was necessary to harmonise the different practices applicable, so all in order to truly obtain a single market in the activities themselves. It is introduced as regards some of these changes or amendments and additions in the context of pre-marketing activities defined by different national legal systems and the very definitions of pre-marketing activities and the conditions under which they are authorised, so this is one of the ways that they can be equal to the rules of the game for all. Somewhere they were more liberal and could be advertised differently in these countries, in other ways in a smaller way, and that is precisely to respond to these differences in the context of this uniform treatment. Therefore, this specifically provides for a harmonised definition of pre-marketing activities and the conditions under which they are implemented. One of the amendments and additions to the obligation to carry out notification procedures by the competent authority or identification in order to avoid circumventing cross-border trade rules and notifying the competent authority of the host Member State of the alternative and investment funds management company of the same funds managed in its territory, so that regulators receive information on the inclusion of other funds from other countries. Further rules shall be laid down for the withdrawal of information on the trading of shares of alternative investment funds in the host Member State or on one or more alternative investment funds, therefore all of which are of course intended to protect investors. The fund itself traded in a given host Member State is obliged to make a general offer to buy the share without charge... which must last a minimum of 30 days. Some of the more changes to be made here in relation to the notification of the intended change in the information contained in the notification of the notification of the intention of trade. Therefore, clear practices are prescribed in relation to the same trade itself and are also transferred. The 61st Directive relating to the prudential supervision itself, which prescribes the minimum regulatory capital of the management company. As I have said, alternative investment funds are a good source of alternative and alternative financing for companies is not intended for all investors because of the interest of a professional investor, they can also be one of the tasks why... it is to contribute to increasing economic activity. What we have carried out in parallel with these directives, which our regulator or HANFA has done, has carried out a report on the consultation carried out, in which we have detected certain possibilities of harmonisation or amending the laws to further enhance our own market, so public consultation was attended by companies for the management of investment funds, industry representatives, investors, etc. and in this respect, changes in those areas where it is possible to carry out a regulatory discharge in order not to jeopardise the objectives of investor protection. Therefore, these amendments also remove regulatory obstacles and administrative redundancies for the operation of the alternative fund management company in order to open up an additional investment space. What is most important to some of these things, as I mentioned in the introduction and in relation to the alternative investment fund with legal personality, we also get the management company that can be registered as a command company, this is actually about the company of persons who according to their characteristics most corresponds to so-called. the partnership form established in other Member States by risk capital funds, i.e. entrepreneurship capital funds. So far it has been a classical stock company or a limited liability company. What is also important is that this proposal proposes to further regulate the legal and regulatory framework for alternative investment funds in order to give lending opportunities. Therefore, it is extremely important in the context of both the last agenda points and the general possibility of financing the economy, so it is not just credit institutions that can be the source of certain funding. As far as size and further disbursement are concerned, by the current law, we distinguish a small, medium and large company for managed alternative investment funds depending on the total value of the assets and thus raises the threshold from 75 to 350 million kuna in the case of the use of the financial leverage, or a billion and 400 million if not used, which means that we will get nine small companies that have been classified as medium, as well as two new mediums. Which means actually because they are prescribed a small minimum set of obligations and the highest flexibility in the business itself compared to other categories. So, administrative discharge, greater possibility of these changes and additions are also particularly reduced by small and medium-sized not having to have at least two members of the administration but one, and we know what this means for costs and for all others and of course as regards the fees themselves of entry, exit and other small business is much simpler, faster and thus we try to increase our activity in the capital market itself. The capital-based amount for small companies is also reduced for the management of alternative investment funds from an existing 500,000 to 400,000 kuna. As regards the concept of approval of the establishment of alternative investment funds with a private offer, and again with the aim of regulatory discharge. There is a difference between the approval process and the establishment of alternative investment funds with a public offering and those with a private offer which, as I said, is offered exclusively to professional and qualified investors. So those who are offered professional and qualified go into one accelerated process, 10 working days from receiving the necessary documentation and rules, etc. What it certainly promotes only the establishment, but above all, work itself and speeds up. What is the difference between the first reading of certain nomotechnical amendments was accepted were the comments of the Legislative Committee's proposal, meaning the provision was added that, within the framework of the approval procedures for the work of the funds itself, only to see, therefore, that, in fact, the equivalence of the Investment Funds Act and the achievement of greater clarity would be added to... which the HANFA Administrative Council would adopt regulations to determine that the clarification was considered to be an experience of work in the body of the state administration, a new article concerning the possibility of establishment... in the form of a command society, we said that this would use the term.../incomprehensible description of the infringement that corresponds to the content of the one to which it is called. And as far as alternative investment funds are concerned, we are, of course, fulfilling our prescribed compliance obligation and we are also using this opportunity to go a step further as I have announced that certain administrative and regulatory redundancies are being introduced. As far as the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering is concerned, very briefly, given the time left. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption are also further harmonisation of the Croatian regulatory framework in the area of the capital market with the acquis and the provision of assumptions for the implementation of the regulations and directives that we have already said have the same objective again. I won't repeat the obstacles.../incomprehensible/... and just equating practice. Therefore, as regards the concrete law, the main objectives of amending and supplementing the establishment of a system that enables the implementation of tasks in relation to trading.../incomprehensible/... funds, hence, to open-end investment funds with a public offering and to make them available to small investors in each Member State in which the management company intends to trade. Rules shall be laid down for the withdrawal of the trading notices of the shares of.../incomprehensible/... funds in the host Member States in relation to one or more funds themselves. The procedures relating to the notification of the intended change in the information contained in the notification, the documentation provided with notice of the intention of setting up a branch, which I have mentioned, therefore the obligation to report itself, shall be introduced in a foreign language./... the specific type of open investment fund with a public offering, whose share is traded on a regulated market or multilateral trading platform for at least one class, and those specificities shall be prescribed. There would only be a short stay around the ETFs, so that is one, one of the actual concepts of the particulars itself is that it is primarily about harmonising guidelines on the European Securities Supervisory Authority itself. So we, as an ETF fund, invest in certain indices that are defined by certain indices on the stock market, so whether it's a segment of the IT industry of certain means of shares belonging to one sector. So I'm not investing in a single company, I'm investing in a brand if I can say so. It may also be indexes on the stock market, but it can also be directly related to oil, gold or other values that can be traded, and it actually diversifies or reduces the risk itself if we type if we can say so on a particular brand, whether it is IT or something else, then there is a smaller amount of funds or more in that fund, and it certainly reduces the risk and increases the ability to make the profits themselves. As regards the change itself, the content of the prospectus as the main document in any investment going to the stock market is the one that decides which gives all the necessary information to the investor regarding whether the fund, whether the investment, whether the company, whether anything or anyone who is going towards the stock market in any way. There is a separation of the risk profile from the investment elements, therefore a more or less obligation is made to the management company in the event of use of other liquidity management tools other than the suspension of the issue or purchase of the share of the information of course to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Just for a little while, as far as some data is concerned, we currently have 94 open funds with a so-called public offering. .../incomprehensible/... they're run by 11 companies and as far as August is concerned, it's 21.1 billion, billions of kuna. Absolutely more or less, we would meet certain regulations of the prescribed compliance of our legislation. As regards the difference in the first reading, the same thing we and.../incomprehensible/... of the HANFE Governance Council are also the same thing as the amendments and proposals of the Legislative Committee. The second amendments to the first reading are Article 13 which amends the time limit in Article 119(4) of the applicable law in such a way as to replace the words for 7 days with the words 5 working days, i.e. by this we have accepted the HGK’s comments addressed to the Committee on Finance and the State Budget during the debate in the first reading, so it is not 7 days but 5 working days as a deadline. Moreover, a provision has been added, which stipulates that for the important changes to the prospectus that we have talked about.../incomprehensible/... the fund must be the result of the approval of HANFE and the specific changes that are relevant to the prospectus itself, the fund itself. So this is, as I said, fulfilling our compliance obligation and what is expected as a result of all the above changes and additions, to increase cross-border activities for managing, easier and simpler information exchange and to ensure a greater range of available products to investors and.../incomprehensible/... and only to promote the market, investment in the capital market and opportunities.../incomprehensible/... when we had alternative global funds and financing of economic activities. Here's your attention. Yeah, pardon me for staying in this part of the amendment that we received from the Committee on Legislatives we will nom technically accept it completely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60567	Thank you very much, we have more replicas of the first respected representative of Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60568	Secretary of State, in your presentation, you mentioned 94 open funds with a public offering, please make sure the number 94 or 97 is correct? How much from exactly does it operate in Croatia 94 or 97 because it has information that it actually has 97. This is the first issue and the second one with this harmonisation with the EU acquis and European standards will actually allow cross-border trade, on the one hand. On the other hand, you are also reducing the thresholds in the law that will change the status of some funds, if we talk about alternative funds. I'd like to ask you for information, have you made any projections that will have an effect on our economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60569	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60570	Yeah, that's right. In the original, when we were on, in June, it was 97, today it's 94, 3 are in liquidation. As regards the assessment of the effects, of course, what is the objective of transposing the directive, i.e. the implementation of the regulation is an increased possibility, the possibility of increased activities, equal game rules for all. We expect that, to some extent, given our level of development, the capital markets and our numbers are made possible, especially when we are talking about alternative investment funds because the HANFA has conducted this consultation with those who are doing so, who have had direct, direct and knowledge about what is holding them back and which does not allow them, so to say further development and further action and I think, with this, several of these changes and most of them, we will succeed in increasing the activity on the market, so it is very difficult to say how much, because this depends on the markets and investments themselves and, of course, on the finality, literacy and information of our entrepreneurs, and ultimately, citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60571	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60572	Dear Secretary of State, my question is as follows. Since you spoke about investment funds, global central banks are announcing that there will be an increase in interest rates, which also automatically means an increase in debt value. My question to you, given that we are now harmonising everything with the EU, will this, for example, affect the Italian debt that will be 1.5 times, therefore, Italy's GDP at the end of 2021? And secondly, I see that the representatives of the fund industry are already slowly saying that the game is ready to invest in debt, given that so far they are in bonds, debt, loans, etc., since the bonds were, or interest them, quite low, do you think that the game will be over for these bond funds, and do you see these trends as being slowly channeled into alternative investment funds, given that they are growth generators in the EU economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60573	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60574	Here, I thank you for this concise and quality issues, which are directly related to the subject. As for interest and your example, it is difficult to say that this will have an impact on the market, but we certainly know from experience that one of the larger EU member states always has influence, not only to the Eurozone, especially if they are members of the Eurozone, that it would be responsible to say that it is simply removed, that there is no connection on the capital market, or the interest market. Of course there is a measure and there are opportunities to minimise it, I believe that they will all be at the level of the European and Central Bank and the very systems of entrepreneurship. As for bond investments, absolutely here, there I would pull the parallel and with our pension funds, we know that the offerings were very good on the bonds and that the capitalised assets were growing very well and yes. This is one of the possibilities that they transfer to other investments in which they do their tasks and bring additional contributions, so I expect them to recognize this, first and foremost, funds, as a good opportunity to invest the funds that are their own business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60575	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60576	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. When we talk about investing in funds, RH. Its population has come to the same with great caution before, and it is obvious that we are not prone to this way of investment and investment, and now, during the Covid crisis, there is even greater caution for citizens to invest in funds, and they simply see such a way as a risky investment. I ask you, how will these new legal frameworks and these proposed amendments and additions of laws encourage citizens to invest this kind and how the state encourages, in fact, how much it educates our citizens and entrepreneurs to increase their activities and to actually focus on these forms of funding and investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60577	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60578	Thank you. So there is always a certain risk, and this, here we are talking about investments in which this risk is, is extremely concerned about the risk and security of investment and investor protection, especially when I was talking about the Exchange Traditional Funds themselves, so ETFs as a species, a sub-class of open funds with a public offering in which that risk is minimalised because they are not invested in one bond, or in one securities or instrument, rather than in several of them that are grouped by certain sectors. Also, the information and you've been well-detecting, describing, is now in the works, practically in implementing a new 7-year-old, new period of action plan, and it's certainly something that all governments so far and this government have been trying as much through different models and different institutions to reach out to citizens to get acquainted with the possibilities themselves. Of course, the main prerequisite is that citizens must have funds to invest, and that is where I see that it is also one of the first preconditions to be made. First you have to have a certain... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60579	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60580	Here, it's said that this is one of the safest ways to invest. This is where those who lost their investments in the last 2009 crisis would disagree. 2016 introduced a new version... So that's the third version already. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is always said that it is more investor security, less risk exposure, etc., but it is obvious that, I think, this mechanism does not neutralize the crisis but only gives legitimacy to a completely insecure and crisis-oriented system. So the question is who will be responsible for the funds lost even though the question is in our case who will invest at all, given that before the start of the pandemic, 70% of the population had no savings from their incomes at all, and that 90% of the savings stakes in banks were just up to 10 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60581	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60582	Thank you. So, yes, the risk always exists. As for the types of investment funds themselves, we have four large categories, cash, bond, mixed and stock. The money is, of course, the safest, most insecure or most risky stock funds and there is always one diversification of the fund itself that invests in all four groups the same single sign that it manages potential risks. As far as this possibility is concerned, so all the time we get information about how our citizens' deposits are growing, so obviously when the crisis comes, and generally and without the crisis, there are deposits and certain funds there are code, I'll agree maybe not a large number of citizens but in this proportion, and it's certainly smarter and those funds to invest in these things, because we have to say that these funds in some way encourage and only the economy, not in some way if we've now allowed alternative investment funds to lend means not only credit institutions, so we're going to spin that circle, and we can certainly expect a wider benefit there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60583	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60584	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. To talk about security on this guy's market is if we're trying to advocate freedom of the market it's illusory. The fact is that Croatian citizens currently have about 300 billion kuna savings at the level of GDP from 60 billion avists. The interest rates are in the well and we are now opening the market and that is good, we are opening up towards Europe, but we are opening up our capital towards them. And there is only one question that is raised in some way constantly between the lines, which is the question of the financial literacy of our people. And you know yourself that these measurements say that she's not exactly like that, so I'm curious about what you're going to do, so don't explain to me what the funds are and do it specifically. I know there's a show on Croatian Catholic Radio, but what else to do to describe people and not to get into a situation to lose absolutely everything that's possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60585	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60586	Here's a thank you. So, constant education is being done by regulatory authorities and competent authorities, or HANFA, HGK, an action plan absolutely exists, and I think that during June and a certain webinar financing small and medium-sized entrepreneurship with private capital and through the very progress of the market that the Stock Exchange issued I think last year or backwards for the last year. What is important is that through and through this debate and all possible channels and we as the Ministry of Finance, but also all other stakeholders on the market communicate clearly and raise that literacy and, in fact, to our entrepreneurs should also put information as a possibility. Of course there's nothing 100% safe, that's the first thing anyone has to know about any investment. So whoever says this is 100% that except eventually in government bonds themselves, and the offerings are there small that for citizens is not an alternative difficult, difficult...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60587	Thank you very much. Now let's ask if the committee's reporters will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative, Plasimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60588	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the screen. I am glad that we have touched alternative investment funds today, and it is good that we are opening up to the EU in this direction because here I have pulled out only some data, so investment in the EU, and as far as alternative investment funds themselves are at 48%, which means that generators are just alternative channels and that there are little more risks to actually get out of this situation that we are in today. In today's debate, I'd rather focus more on the bond funds for the very reason that somehow it is something that goes according to global trends that will affect them. Now, as for financiers and general representatives of the fund industry, somehow during the middle of this year, they felt that the game was actually over as far as investment in bonds is concerned for reasons since 2015. Central banks around the world are leading one low interest rate policy in most European countries, in fact, more developed and the interest rates were also negative and this marked that whoever invested in the bonds would actually have negative contributions in the portfolio. In this sense, it was seen that the trend of leaving the bond funds slowly because more and more in Croatia people invest in alternative investment funds, which the secretary-general said here. He listed a 4.9 billion kuna figure, at the end of last year there were 4.4 which meant 500 million kunas were traded more with alternative investment funds. What's really important about the debt market itself, and it's going to tank Croatia, too, is that central banks are announcing that now there will be an increase in interest rates as well as an increase in debt, unrelated to bonds or loans, but an increase in interest rates will mean an increase in debt that we saw best in Frank's example when people had to pay higher amounts for the same amount of annuity. As regards when the FED or the European Central Bank raises interest rates, this automatically means that currency market changes, etc. Forex or, for example, the bond market, i.e. fixed incom, and that there will be a risk of growth of interest rates, which is automatically transferred to investments themselves. As for the Fed itself, therefore, it is already expected at the end of this year, given that very much money has been pumped into the US economy to withdraw it and to start managing global liquidity, this means that it will raise interest rates, and raising interest rates as we have said are collected and the debt and risk of increasing interest rates. Now, what does macroeconomic mean? The well-known magazine Di Canamis states that the bank for international alignments is the so-called bank. BIS, this is the central bank of all central banks hoped that at this point in fact in developed countries it was a debt, whether the bonds were on some 102% of GDP, so before covid means it was 92%, which means that during the pandemic the whole world was in debt by 10% and therefore more was analysed so corporate debt, i.e. as companies as such were in debt. And the question arises whether these high levels of debt that have been observed globally and that will be poured over to the entire EU, can threaten recovery in advanced economies? I purposely asked the Secretary-General a question for Italy for the reasons that this particular issue that is now being raised here, so it specifically refers to Italy itself, which is actually the third economy of the euro area. As for Italy itself, our neighbor and then I will be in Croatia alone, so it will end in 2021. be in debt 1.5 times so GDP and their economic growth stagnates in the last 25 years. And what is now a big question that the study that was published at London's economic school said on their blog that if financial markets begin to suspect that the sustainability of the Italian debt would drive the growth of interest rates upwards and would force even the Italian government, the study says, that it was either seeking additional European aid or on the other hand to come out of the euro area. It is, it is a study at London's economic school which is one of the best economic schools in Europe that says that at that point, the Italian government would either ask for additional help to get out of the crisis, which is then further borrowing across Europe or that it would come out of the euro area. It is true that the European Commission therefore gave 191 billion euros to Italy for the plan and recovery and resilience to recover. However, with such money as this condition, some reforms are also required for Croatia. And the study itself goes on to say that if further pressures on Italy, for example on savings that will come through reform, that means that at those times when it was the voters of Italy who were in that alone, in this very study covered, 15% of Italians would automatically exit the euro area. And there is no need to underestimate it for the reason it's 2015. was a referendum in Greece that did not therefore accept additional funding from the EU because it was too restrictive and too strict for one, for a country like Greece, so this also affects Italy itself and it does not need to be underestimated that study, especially now that entry into the Eurozone is considered. As for microeconomics, so these interest rates that will increase, the question arises how can this affect, say, companies in the back of Zadar, like Osijek, in northern Croatia? And that topic was very well handled by Mr. Serdarusic, so that I don't turn out to be stealing an idea, so I purposely quote him from the Leader magazine, which states the following situation. So, yes, let's say that a company anywhere in Croatia is going to invest in one production plant, so what practice is already in Croatian companies is that it is mostly funded from credit. So what would happen, so first of all, if it were a credit with a variable interest rate with an increase in interest announced by European central banks would automatically mean an increase in debt, which means more businesses should repay that debt, so that's number one. But what is even more important than, therefore, is something called capital budgeting, or the evaluation of investment projects, that when there is an increase in interest rates, that means an increase in the cost of capital that is then taken to discount all the financial flows that will come into the company so that these flows are reduced to the current value that they are worth today, so how much would that production plant that generates certain revenues for that company, so how much these revenues are planned from that plant, so when they are discounted, how much they will be worth today. What Serdarusic concludes is that it is invaluable for Croatian companies to enter such a single investment in the production plant in the first place because, according to this model, what I said about budgeting capital of such an investment with an increase in these interest rates expected at world level and Europe, they become invaluable. Why did I take the example of Italy and Croatia? For a reason, there is a link that the Italian government has decided to help companies in Italy. So, most of us here advocate the market economy and so what is waiting for the money coming from the EU to redistribute it because it is no longer marketable, but when it is already giving money then it would be good to invest that money in the private sector because it generates more, therefore more money back when it is invested. The Italians, those in investment and finance and therefore the principal of loans and interest to businesses, in Croatia, so what is done is to subsidise only interest. In this respect and after covid, therefore what the Italians will be in favour of the competition in relation to Croatia is that they will be financed by the Italian government with money from the EU by both the principal and interest, at about 70%, while we will therefore have only interest. The question is whether Italy will succeed from this crisis, which is due to a strong view of the increase in interest rates, but on the other hand they have a much better position as regards investment towards the private sector than Croatia, and on the other hand, Croatia invests in infrastructure projects that do not bring returns. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60589	The next Club of Representatives will be the Croatian Sovereigns, and the Honorable Representative Miroslav Škoro will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60590	Thank you very much, Vice President. These specialized topics do not give rise to much attention, but they do, and this is a serious concern for Croatian citizens, so here, perhaps more in an educational sense, these final proposals of the law ensure further legal harmonisation of the Croatian regulatory framework for open investment funds, with a public offering and alternative investment funds with the acquis of the EU and the EU standards. The open-end investment fund, we will once again say, with a public offering is a private asset, i.e. a specific form of investment in funds where the investor trusts their free resources to specialised institutions, investment fund management companies, whose task is to invest in financial markets and make the maximum possible contribution. The assets of the investor shall be distributed in a large, large number or way in investing in different shares or bonds, i.e. in all legal securities allowed. In Croatia there are currently 97 so-called UCITS funds whose assets on 31 August this year amounted to 21.1 billion kuna. Open investment funds may be shares, mixed, mandatory, short-term compulsory, special cash, etc., and are not all equally risky or have the same investment strategy, which is important to know about any investment. We can talk about different levels of risk and different opportunities for reaching yields. The Open Investment Fund is intended for all who wish to make a greater contribution compared to the classical forms of savings, such as hand-to-hand savings, which do not have enough time, experience, knowledge, patience and analytical skills to deal independently with the purchase of securities on the capital market. So it's one more conservative approach and it's mostly available through banking, especially most often. The alternative investment fund, I will continue to speak AIF, so that I do not use this whole term, is an investment fund established for the purpose and purpose of raising funds from investors or private offerings, and investment of those funds in accordance with a predetermined strategy and the aim of investment of that AIF, and exclusively for the benefit of the shareholders. In Croatia, there are currently 39 alternative investment funds whose assets again on 31 August this year amount to 4.9 billion kuna, unlike these UCITS funds, alternative investment funds are allowed to invest in a wider range of assets, although they are not intended for all investors. Often alternative investment funds take far more risks than open investment funds, so they are not so conservative in their approach. These two acts are legally aimed at removing barriers to cross-border trading of investment funds, as well as at harmonising different practices in Member States in relation to cross-border trading of investment funds. In addition to administrative and regulatory disbursement of alternative investment funds, a framework for increasing transparency of national trading requirements as well as for increasing investor protection is provided. Therefore, it is essential, therefore, to ask at least 2 questions after this introduction when the debate is at this point. The first question is, what kind of capital is that? What is the amount of money available to our citizens in banks, who could access these markets? So, what's the savings and whether our citizens are financially written enough, which I just asked the secretary of state. So in 8 months of this year, citizens have increased their deposits in banks by as much as 8 billion kuna and they currently amount to around 220 billion kuna. The interest rates the banks have been paying on savings for a long time are very low, so if we consider inflation, then it's easy to conclude that real interest on deposits is actually negative because they don't cover an inflation rate. So it's no wonder she's on current and jury accounts, so that's the savings we say,... After seeing nearly 60 billion kunas, because interest rates are what they are, so people don't get paid to disarm those funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another issue related to the financial literacy of citizens, which, simplistically, we can call or define as a knowledge set and skills needed to understand and manage financial products and services that we meet on the market, which belong to the sphere of banking, insurance, capital markets, etc. The national strategic framework for consumer financial literacy for the period 2015 to 2020 is a basic document for this area, and an operational working group has been established to monitor the implementation of measures and activities for financial literacy, the co-ordinator of which is the Ministry of Finance. The basis for different educational activities was certainly carried out in 2015. The Operational Working Group should hold meetings every 3 months at which implementation activities and other issues relevant for financial literacy are discussed. As co-ordinator of all these financial literacy activities, the Ministry of Finance shall build up once a year a report on the implementation of the action plan for the past one-year period and projections of planned activities for the next reporting period. So, everything sounds nice, everything is established, everything exists, everything is founded, but then we come up with some results that point to the level of financial literacy of people, that is, how much they with these hundreds of billions are willing to participate in what these laws allow them to do. So on the basis of the results of the survey carried out in 2015, Croatia achieved 11.7 points or 56%, while according to the 2019 survey, there was progress and there were 12.3 points or 59%. By looking at the elements, a better result has been recorded in financial knowledge and behaviour, while a lower score has been recorded in financial positions. It's moving, so it does. We do not know how much this is right now, we will find out, but they are insufficient and there is an objective danger that through cross-border trade and a greater offer under the conditions of negative real interest rates citizens reach for investments that bring higher yields in the announcements but are also very, very risky. Therefore, what is most important about these two bill proposals is to point to citizens all the risks associated with investing mainly in alternative investment funds so as not to remain without their savings. Here, we've had a few cases when it comes to investment in such things, especially out there in 2006, '07. '08, '09. Is that when the big financial crisis has occurred and in some way great losses have been achieved by citizens in such investment mixes, so I also consider it a great opportunity to call on the Ministry of Finance and all the authorities to do their best to educate Croatian citizens because this is a great opportunity, but this great opportunity can get you into a great deal of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60591	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and a respected representative of Jure Brkan will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60592	The Honorable Chairman, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, as you have just heard any investment in investment funds, whether they are open with a public offering and alternative investment funds always pulls behind and risks. There is no safe investment of 100% safe investment in investment funds, an alternative to that would be some armed bank savings, but the yields are far lower, but normal lack of risk. However, the draft laws ahead of us on open-end investment funds with a public offering and alternative investment funds change existing legislation and essentially strengthen investor security for investment in investment funds. They give some new additional tools to make these funds safer. We heard the legislator, and we would repeat in front of the HDZ Club again to you, and to our public, in essence, what is going on here and what is changing these amendments and additions to the law and what is it finally bringing us tomorrow. So for the last time in front of us are now the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Alternative Investment Funds Act. We discussed them here for the last time when they were in their first reading on July 2, they were as united points as they are today and to remember essentially an open investment fund with a public offering or so on. The UCITS Fund is an open-end investment fund with a public offering established by a UCITS fund management company and respects the risk-sharing principles of the investor's joint assets collected by the public offering of an open-source stake in liquid financial assets in accordance with the provisions of the Open Investment Funds Act with the public offering, prospectus and rules of that fund. Shares in an open investment fund shall be purchased from the assets of that fund at the request of the investor. The reason behind the adoption of the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering is to further harmonise the Croatian regulatory framework in the area of capital markets with the acquis of the EU and EU directives and regulations. Directive 2019/1160 of that Regulation 2019/1156 aims at removing barriers to cross-border trade in investment funds, equating the process of notifying and harmonising different practices in EU Member States, and all compared to cross-border trade in investment funds. The main objectives of amending and supplementing this law are, among other things, the establishment of a system that allows for the implementation of tasks in relation to the trading of UCITS funds and the making available of those at the disposal of small investors in each EU Member State where the company intends to trade in open-end investment funds management. They also prescribe rules to withdraw notices on the trading of shares of open investment funds in the host Member States or on one or more open investment funds, in such a way that the management company that withdraws the notice of trade is obliged to make a general bid for the purchase of the share free of charge, an exit fee that must last 30 days and be published on a publicly available media. Furthermore, the amendments define the notification of the intended change in the information contained in the notification and the documentation provided with notice of the intention of setting up a branch in a Member State i.e. which is delivered with notice of the intention to start trading. It is prescribed to supplement the provisions for the calculation of the general fixed costs for the use of the calculation of the management company's minimum regulatory capital. We also heard that a new concept of UCIT ETF (Exchange Traditional Fund) is also introduced, a specific type of open-end investment fund with a public offering with at least one class of shares traded during the day on a regulated market or multilateral trading platform and the specificities of ETF are prescribed. At the end of the event changes are made in relation to the mandatory content of the open investment fund prospectus, the separation of the risk profile of an open investment fund from investment elements, the open investment fund as an obligation to the management company in case of use of other liquidity management tools other than the suspension of the issue and purchase of the share of specific tools and circumstances in detail and clearly refer to the investor and to the start of the use of the same notifications to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. How much business of open-end investment funds with a public offering is interesting to investors? We heard earlier from the promoters and how much I was able to inform myself, so the last time we discussed open-end investment funds with a public offering here on July 2nd, it was said that 94 investment funds were operating in the Republic of Croatia at the end of last year and had the value of 19.3 billion assets. On August 31st, I found information that 97 open-end investment funds were operating and that the value of their assets was 21.1 billion kuna. So there's been an increase in interest and property. As for the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Alternative Investment Funds Act, we are again in line with the EU acquis. Namely, the Croatian Capital Market Regulatory Framework has been coordinated with the EU acquis, with these changes and administrative and regulatory disbursement of alternative investment funds. Some of the main objectives of these amendments are both in the bill and standing, the introduction of a definition of pre-marketing and the regulation of the conditions for pre-marketing activities. Compared to alternative investment funds offered exclusively to professional investors, this means again and precisely certain rules of the game on the capital market. Furthermore, the rules for... a notice on the trading of shares or shares of alternative investment funds in the host Member State in relation to one or more alternative investment funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What needs to be set aside as more important is to edit a framework for one of the possible alternative forms of funding, which is an alternative investment fund for lending. So the investment fund provides a loan acting as a single or primary lender to land-based enterprises such as small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also proposed to increase the ceiling for a small company, to manage alternative investment funds from 75 to 350 million kuna in the case of the use of a financial leverage, i.e. a billion and 400 million kuna, in the case of a non-use of a financial leverage. It is pointed out that less demanding commitments are introduced both when acquiring or increasing a qualifying share in small and medium-sized companies and investment companies are allowed to be depositaries to alternative investment funds in order to increase the specificity of the market itself. For regulatory discharges in amendments and additions to this law, a series of measures such as reducing the minimum amount of underlying capital for small managers of alternative investment funds shall be proposed when the manager is appointed as the external manager of the alternative investment fund from the existing 500 to 400 000 kuna. A further disbursement is proposed in the appointment of members of the managers of alternative investment funds, a change in the concept of the approval of alternative private-proposed investment funds is proposed. Dispersals in the field of reporting for small managers of alternative funds will also be implemented through amendments to the Agency's rules governing reporting for managers and alternative investment funds managed by them. Among other things, it is mentioned that harmonisation will be carried out with other regulations in order to address the shortcomings observed through previous practice, which contributes to one... conduct and legal certainty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As with the business of open investment funds, the interest in alternative investment funds is on the rise. So on 2 July, we were barating data that 34 alternative investment funds were operating in the Republic of Croatia and they had the value of $4.4 billion in assets and on 31 August in the Republic of Croatia had 36 open investment funds and the value of their assets was 4.9 billion kuna. The new solutions proposed by these final draft laws in relation to those presented in the law in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament are the result of the comments adopted and the proposal of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament, the authorities of the state administration and other bodies, as well as the amendments and additions introduced in these final proposals of the law in order to make the application of certain provisions clearer. Following all of this, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60593	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front and will be spoken by the respected representative Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60594	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, to repeat the objective of these laws, they are, of course, re-adaptation and adaptation to EU directives, and it is well said that the aim is to remove barriers to the effective cross-border trade of investment funds, to bring the process of notification and to harmonise the different practices applied in Member States regarding cross-border trade in investment funds. Here I am talking about open-end investment funds with a public offering, according to the main objectives of change and addition... the establishment of a system that enables the implementation of tasks in relation to trade in CITS funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the CITS fund is an open investment fund with a public offering. What does that mean? So this is about processing of requests for the issuance and purchase of the shares of the CITS fund, providing information to investors on how to submit and purchase works in the CITS Fund, and how to pay income on the purchase of shares in CITS funds, making available to investors of all information, fund documents as np. Proscept has... the annual reports, etc., means more or less some technical things that are being arranged and the aim is to make some kind of broader, which also gives the Committee's reports and the State Secretary's presentations, that it is necessary to increase the activity of the funds, means by activation of the savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, the previous debate really raised that question means who has the right, who has the ability to invest and who has the possibility of investing at all, and there they can even agree with the secretary of state when he has transferred, right, in that debate that some call for private banks to finance small entrepreneurs and they simply look at their own benefit, so to speak or assess the impact of the risk, but here we can say ok, if we are limited to that framework in the last debate, the state as the Secretary of State said is not a good investor, sorry, is not a good master, let's see what's wrong with the citizens, so what about these small investors. Here is a framework that says that we can agree that there is a huge savings in Croatia, there is also an activation of the economy, so in any case we can agree that in Croatia we have huge savings and little investment and savings, meaning conservative holding savings on their accounts of the richest. But there are two problems, so one is security, and yes, let me just point out, there are two problems, and we're not even getting into the fundamental problem of investment funds as financial institutions that contribute to social inequality, and that's especially seen in the crown, so when profits from the crisis becomes linked to predatory financial institutions, but that's where I'm going to discuss simply aside, so what are the problems with investment funds? First security, secondly means who has the potential to invest. Since 2008. means when the Capital Market Act is introduced, we are expected to have that capital boom, since 2008. Nothing good for the Croatian economy has happened, so I think even the opposition, and opposition and position, means even though it's always heard that we need an even more free market than if we left socialism yesterday, I think we can all agree that we have 30 years. in capitalism and we haven't seen much progress. It is therefore said in this law and in proposing these legislative proposals that it is one of the safest ways of investment. We can't really agree with those who lost their investment in the last crisis in 2009. I'm sure they wouldn't agree with this description. Otherwise, with investment funds and with some other instruments, it is always meant to make sure that security is even greater now, that so far there have been some risks, but now with the new legislation it will be arranged and so in 2016, when a new version of UCITS was introduced, it was already the third version and it is listed always as now that there is greater investor security, lower risk exposure, etc. But as we see every time over and over again, I guess by some principle of error attempt, we can probably come to some final conclusion, such a rhetoric of increasing security does not at all neutralize the crisis, nor does the crisis in general, but only gives legitimacy to a completely insecure and crisis - prone system, and we can conclude that it will come to another crisis and that some people will lose their roles. Who will be responsible for these lost funds? That's the first question. But another question that is also raised with such legal proposals, who can invest, right? So I'll warn you of some information about who can invest at all. According to the CNB reports, I hope that the Croatian Prime Minister will come to us here, so we'll ask him these questions orally, I'd like to ask him some questions, but according to the CNB's reports, it really means that the money in us is low in investment, and they accumulate wealth more. That would be some conclusion if we could get some information. So 1.7% of the people in Croatia hold 43% of the savings, i.e. 75 billion kuna in banks or in us live, that's what we get from the CNB, about 50,000 rich people who have about 43% of the total savings in the country on average about 1.5 million kuna per account, 120 super millionaires in the Republic of Croatia have net assets greater than 190 million kuna, among them 11 who have net assets of more than 640 million kuna. In the Republic of Croatia, we have 150,000 people who have about a million kuna savings on the bank, and their savings are only increasing. In a year and that crown year, the savings of the rich have increased by an additional 11 billion kuna. On the other hand, 1/3 of people live on the edge of poverty, more than half of the pensioners live in Croatia on the edge of poverty, the wages we have are among the lowest in the EU. Of those households that have a deposit in half is smaller than, about 2,000 kuna, many people actually have minimal funds in Croatia, that means 90% of the savings stakes in banks are up to 10,000 kuna, otherwise the deposit per capita per capital is 52,872 kuna, but of course most of them have little or nothing, and that minority has quite enough. Before the start of the pandemic corona 70% of the population practically had no savings from their income, now it's probably even worse, it's certainly not better to cut short, some eat meat, lots of cabbage, so on average we eat sarma, we can say that that amount, that figure of 52,000 kuna per capita is completely unrealistic, so we're talking about most residents who don't have any stakes in banks. Croatia is the second poorest country in the EU, Croatia is 2020. It dropped to 64% of the EU average GDP per capita compared to 65% in 2019, and thus cemented the status of the second poorest EU member in society with Greece right behind Bulgaria whose GDP grew to 55% of GDP. Mostly to shorten, and here we can expect minimum stakes on one side because most people have almost no savings, barely survive and enter the minuses, minuses that are like this or like that, and on the other hand, those who have that large amount of money that stands on savings, they don't invest. So we can't exactly expect to have some kind of boom of that investment market again. For example, German private banks have otherwise imposed fines on savings of more than EUR 100,000, but this is when the RF said that savings should be distributed above EUR 10, 100,000 was then called kidnapping and expropriation. So what is the goal is to encourage those who have savings stakes in their accounts to somehow use these savings roles functionally in favour of those who do not, that economy means in some way to run and encourage. But here's how the state is a bad master, and here we're going to find that there's not a lot of people able to invest any more we can just bend our shoulders and figure out that nothing good can happen because that's the framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60595	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDP, and the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60596	The esteemed chairman, respected secretary with co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, does not have many of us, although the topic is particularly interesting for our citizens who have large savings roles and who could actually invest these savings roles well, even though here we heard Mr. Secretary, there is no 100% guarantee. However, we must conclude that these final proposals of the law ensure further legal harmonisation of the Croatian regulatory framework for open investment funds with a public offering and alternative investment offers with the EU acquis and European standards. To explain a little bit what this is about and what this is about, I'm going to tell you what kind of funds it's about. So an open-end investment fund with a public offering I will continue to speak to UCITS is a fund that is an open-end investment fund with a public offering set up by a UCITS fund management company and, respecting the principles of risk sharing, invests in the joint assets of investors collected by a public offering of a stake in a UCITS fund in liquid financial assets in accordance with the provisions of the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, prospectus and.../incomprehensible/... of that fund. At the request of investors, UCITS funds are purchased from the assets of the fund, and we heard today that 94 UCITS funds are currently operating in the Republic of Croatia and that they were 97 in June. In contrast, the alternative investment fund, which I will later mention as AIF, was established with the purpose and purpose of raising funds to the public or natural offer of investors and the investment of those funds in accordance with a predetermined strategy and the aim of the AIF investment, and exclusively for the benefit of the AIF's shareholders. Unlike UCITS funds, alternative investment funds are allowed to invest in a wider range of assets even though they are not intended for all investors. Legal changes change the thresholds for medium AIFs in such a way as to increase the lower threshold to the upper threshold for small AIFs, and this change would lead to a new 9 AIFs that were previously classified as large or medium. In addition, they would get 2 new AIFs that were previously classified as large and I think this is good because this approach opens up greater opportunities for simpler setting up new AIFs with smaller regulatory burdens that are appropriate to their therefore lower risk profile. Such an increase in thresholds would result in less burdensome regulatory requirements and those of AIFs currently classified as medium, and according to the new classification would be small AIFs. In the Republic of Croatia, 39 AIFs currently operate which, according to data at the end of June 2020, have the value of assets of around 4.9 billion kuna. How much space there is for the establishment and operation of the AIF tells us that the assets of these funds are only about 1.1% of Croatian GDP, and when compared to Germany where the value of the net assets of the AIF is slightly above 57.8% of GDP, of course, German or French, where 48% of GDP is at 48% of GDP, I think we see how much opportunities we open up. The fact is that the development of the AIF industry would allow, among other things, a wider choice of long-term alternative financing for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and therefore the legislators' initiative on regulatory discharge and achieving a greater level of proportionality. Therefore, the proposal to reduce the minimum capital for small AIFs from the existing 500,000 when the AIF was appointed as the AIF's external manager to 400,000 kunas as well as additional regulatory redundancies in the appointment of AIF management members. Amendments and additions to both laws focus on removing barriers to cross-border trade in investment funds as well as on harmonising different practices in Member States in relation to cross-border trade in investment funds. The alternative and regulatory disbursement of alternative investment funds also provides a framework for increasing the transparency of national trading requirements as well as for increasing investment protection. In particular, when it comes to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Open Investment Funds with a public offering, it shall, in particular, transpose into the Croatian legal framework a directive relating to cross-border distribution of entities for joint investments and ensure assumptions for the implementation of the regulation on facilitating cross-border distribution of entities for joint investments. In this context, this final proposal for a law allows for further removal of barriers to cross-border trade to open-border investment funds with a public offering, a notification process that is equally important to us. In addition, certain provisions increase the level of transparency, rules and procedures, but also harmonise the different practices applied in Member States in relation to cross-border trade while ensuring high investor protection. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Alternative Investment Funds into the Croatian legal system transposes the provisions of the directive relating to cross-border distribution of entities for joint investments, but also provides for assumptions for the implementation of the Regulation on facilitating cross-border distribution of entities for joint investments. We heard that on 31.8th year in open-end investment funds with a public offering, about 21.1 billion assets are covered and that the alternative funds cover assets of 4.9 million kuna. I will take the opportunity to draw attention once again to the fact that in this proposal for a law on open investment funds with a public offering, a good step has been made in the part that will allow the management company to prepare organisational, technical, technological for timely and accurate investor information and that clearly prescribed sanctions for a management company that does not respect those provisions. I note this because it is expected and is seeking as much transparency as possible and that it has given companies enough time to prepare for such an approach and articles of the draft law relating to these provisions will enter into force from 1.1.2023. which indicates that they have been given sufficient time to prepare and that there will be no room for excuses in the event of breach of those provisions. I also drew attention to similar practices in the debate on the draft law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, and I note that we as a club welcome discussions on laws and the adoption of laws and certain provisions of the law that will take effect in a few months or even later because such an approach allows all participants to prepare adequately for the activities and procedures provided for by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60597	And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60598	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me just start by referring to one previous debate about how many years we've been in capitalism and whether capitalism has brought us something good. So here we are 30 years in capitalism, and first of all, we have not only seen progress because of social order, but because corruption, clientism, crime has somehow captured this country and we do not have capitalism, but some kind of partner capitalism in which progress and business success actually depends on whether the owner of a company is in some kind of partner, relative or not knowing what kind of relationship with politicians in power. So this is the problem of this country not only social regulation capitalism itself. So, the investment fund what exactly is it? The form of a joint investment established with the purpose of raising funds and investing in different types of assets or securities with a view to maximising the yield. The funds are managed by specialised institutions of the fund management company, you have both managers' funds and their success depends and contributes to all these funds. These two laws speak of the so-called so-called law. open and alternative investment funds. So in the context of the pandemic and the global crisis we are in, it is often heard that small and medium-sized enterprises are more vulnerable than large ones and as a lever that should encourage their recovery are therefore mentioned and investment funds are open and alternative. So here is exactly what an open investment fund is, we also have here in explaining this law, so it is a public offering fund set up by a management company for such funds and, respecting the principles of risk sharing, invests in the joint assets of investors collected by that public offering to a fund in liquid financial assets in accordance with the Open Investment Funds Act. In the Republic of Croatia, we currently have 97 such open funds. On the other hand, you have alternative investment funds established for the purpose and purpose of raising funds to public or private offerings from investors and investing these funds in accordance with some strategy and purpose of investment solely for the benefit of holders of shares in that fund. In Croatia, 39 alternative investment funds currently operate. Unlike these open alternative funds, it is allowed to invest in a wider range of assets, for example in companies that are not on the capital market, which require additional investment. Therefore, they are not intended for all investors, but because of the structure of investment, because of the interest of professional institutional investors can be a good alternative source of financing for businesses and contribute to increased economic activity. According to data at the end of June 2020, the value of their assets in Croatia is $4.4 billion, which is only 1.1% of Croatia's GDP. On a ranking of 28 selected European countries, Croatia is 26th place under the net assets of alternative investment funds, so only Slovenia and Bulgaria are behind us. The development of the industry of these funds in particular would allow for a wider choice of long-term financing especially for SMEs. This law in front of us harmonizes or harmonizes with European legislation and practices in cross-border distribution of entities for joint investments. In fact, HANFA has admitted that the Alternative Investment Funds Act has been the most stringent in our country so often Croatian fund management companies have gone to set up funds for example. in Luxemburg. This way, with these laws, it will be easier for them to set up a fund, so this law additionally relieves small and medium-sized managers of investment funds and the establishment, the management of the business and the end of the reporting. The point of these alternative funds is to become businesses an alternative source of funding, since today here are both small and medium-sized enterprises becoming harder and getting loans in banks, so they are becoming increasingly difficult to obtain sources of funds. Since we have the capital market and this fund industry is still in the way of a black box for most of us somehow being, maybe people are afraid of it, but most of the time we need to work on their development and work on making our small and medium-sized enterprises actually get other sources of funding. And all together we need to work on the financial description of our society to understand what all financial instruments are available and what is available to our businesses to develop a further economy. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60599	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60600	Thank you. Honorable Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Very short at the end, as always, just a little retrospective debate. Starting with the esteemed representative of Troscott, of course, we have heard now and the esteemed representative Puljak 1,1% or no more 4,4 billion alternative than it is now 4,9 as we have said in the introduction, and only those alternative to how the esteemed representative Troscott has said 48% of the EU is therefore clearly one of the possibilities and not only the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises but also investment is recognised and we must and we can take the opportunity to take advantage of all these arrangements that have been doing so for decades and I want to say even hundreds of years working on capital markets, conditionally do not understand me literally for hundreds of years, but I will only say this gap where we are and where we have the opportunity to come and simply skip all that part of regulation that which has proved to them to be insufficient, necessary security arrangements, especially after the 2008 crisis. Of course, as far as the esteemed representative of Troscott is concerned, and only one member of the EU and the system are concerned, I responded in a replica. Dear Representative Škoro, yes, one of the potential for investment in these funds is our deposits, what with 31.7. I can say here was that there were a total of 240.6 billion kuna deposits by citizens, and 93.6 billion by tropical companies, or a total of 334.2 billion kuna. That's some potential for investment, especially when we're talking about citizens themselves. Now, that is where the esteemed representative Škoro also mentioned the interest rate issue and inflation, so inflation is the drop in the value of money then all of our citizens must know if they keep money in the bank, and they don't get more interest per sighting or there is no more savings, because literally there will be negative interest or the cost of manipulation, receiving and security aspects of their own storage so that I say money or manipulation of the bills themselves will become more expensive than the contribution that can be made to the same money given to someone else. And then today the situation comes to you that you are losing to the value of money, or very well our citizens know when they go to trade today with a thousand kunas or a hundred kunas can buy less than they could ten years ago, five years ago, and even now we have a feeling even a year ago that we are not talking about a few months and then here these very opportunities of investment come into consideration. What I'm going to say is, let's just say, if we look at the first quarter of the month's contributions in the first quarter, the stock funds are 5.67%, the mixed 2.59, the remaining 1.4% shares of 5.67 are the most risky, very plastic when we speak, and there's the esteemed Mr. Škoro said very well financial literacy, that we have an action plan of about 20 institutions this year, next year, but I'll agree that it needs more and more and we'll definitely do it in the coming months and because of the various other possibilities. These contributions themselves actually people always think of investing in certain shares, the securities of certain companies it's the most risky, investment in the fund, the fund diversifying as I said monetary, binding, mixed, shares he invests in more things and you invest in one let me say that in a management company that has his own portfolio and then makes certain contributions. So, if a company that is invested accidentally falls to their value or I don't know what, that doesn't mean that the total amount will be so exposed. What we can say, and what I said to the total assets of 31.8. was 21.1 billion, currently 94 so we have to distinguish how many of them are doing, how many of them are in the register, so it's not based, so that's the data of 92 which was then 97 in the first reading, now 94... the fund is therefore open, the alternative is 36. here are the offerings, let's say the highest assets weighted by the average monthly yields in July was 1.13%, and the power funds are essentially a share 0,97, mixed 0.80. So for your money you get a certain contribution, if you put it in the bank what most citizens hold you wouldn't have a contribution but you have a drop in the value of that money in terms of the percentage of inflation. Minus or you plus the interest you got on that hand or by seeing savings. And then you get to know where your money is and how much they're worth and what it's gonna mean to you. This is important in this way you may see, of course, what should always be with the reserve there is no 100% investment security, but certainly this form and alternative and open investment funds is one of the safest ways to invest in financial markets, given their diversification and what literally as the people say not all the eggs are put into one basket, so you didn't invest in one society, in one share but in.../incomprehensible/... especially this new thing that we introduce the Exchange Traded Foundations so that the ETFs that you can then choose in oil, you want to put into gold, you want to bet on some currencies, or you'll be in a particular dam or sector, and then you say I want to invest in the IT sector in Croatia or Europe, it'll be hundreds of different or 10 different companies in which the brokers will then be equally or already in accordance with the estimates themselves. And you're betting on a particular sector. So it really requires a certain financial literacy. As for the esteemed representative, Peovic, so I am still standing by who I said the state is a bad businessman or a bad master in terms of market activities or there is nothing to look for. It certainly stands behind me and the fact itself and what it is, however, does not absolutely mean that the state should not interfere but should always be monitored, given the framework and establish the possibility. It is not the one who will directly produce something that has nothing to do with a strategy, with some strategic projects, with our infrastructure what absolutely must and should remain in the governance of the state but to enable the owners to act on their own, they can do what is said not to choke them as they can be said many times. The security of investment, you mentioned in 2008, there is absolutely one of these major changes in both 2008 and the crisis of the financial sector, investment investment, investment banking and all of those derivatives as it started, resecuritisation etc., trade in derivatives. We have not yet come to the issue of securitisation that we will certainly have here through certain guarantees of individual assets or securities and trade itself. Here I finally like to use this as an opportunity to, that information for all citizens who watch get, especially for entrepreneurs and know for sure and ultimately to be interested in what funds these are and how to get certain offers of their own valuables to be financed by alternative investment funds because they can or can ultimately invest in the same as one of them I will not say the safest but least risky types of investment, and each investment and carries their risks. That I think the very meaning of the entrepreneurial initiative carries with it. Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60601	We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60602	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, when there were these two laws and first reading and second reading, we all opened up, or those who discussed the problem in Croatia, and these are people who are saving and on the one hand individuals have really large amounts of savings, regardless of whether it's in banks, it's less and less in banks, and it's more and more at home. Especially in some time of crisis, people decide to save in real estate and then value real estate in the sky, and what would be of interest would be an interest to actually invest in other things. Here we are talking about these funds and investing in them and seeing what the possibility is. In my first reading, I compared it with some other things in Germany and Croatia, and then it was kind of a difference, but it's hard to compare some other things and this. So I'm interested in something from the state level, the ministry should do, in terms of the PR, that it's important that, therefore, it's not just about saving in real estate it can be otherwise pointed to the importance and the funds and possibilities of how they actually contribute. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60603	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60604	Yes, here we absolutely agree, and I think that this debate has crystallized it as one of the fundamental tools so that everything we're doing here today, we suggest, we adopt it has some purpose, and it made sense that those who should be affected and related know it and know what it means. This is precisely describing the financial meaning not only of providing information but of providing all those opportunities offered to them in the capital market itself and in the way that they can solve it. Of course, I'm telling me, given all the problems that we've had and as a transition and persuasive country, we can't expect and it would be crazy to expect that we are now not if we are as developed as other EU members, but that we have to work there to recognize all the good and implement all the good that we are offered, that absolutely, and certainly we will consider in the next period that we will start certain types of activities in particular And this other topic about these minuses. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60605	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60606	My dear secretary, here we have heard and now from a respected MP I would just keep on, in fact on her replica to find, so our GDP is growing again, we're growing the amount of money in the banks, but we're also losing that money rapidly. Why is it going down? We have in the CNB that inflation is about 0.1%, but I think that inflation is a little bit higher on the annual level and that money is going down and because of that, and because citizens have the costs in bank accounts and everything else that the bank is charging us. It would be good if our citizens could invest money in funds, in government bonds, in securities, etc., etc., of course if it were safe for them and that money could be returned safely later. What I would suggest to you, what we did, we had a big project called the Single Administrative Place. This project should actually provide our citizens with a central place to provide services, that those people who will, if they will be in those places, have knowledge and about the funds and the values... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60607	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60608	Thank you. I'll just answer backwards, so, yeah, but that's pretty risky. So if the state does something to make this one information center and it suggests something to someone to invest, so God forbid it's something that doesn't happen, is it, so we're just going one step further. So, no, but yes, to give them contacts, yes, to give them information, yes, to direct them to all those private funds or whatever funds they can use that capital in. As for this first part of inflation, so for the first 6 months, 1.2%, this 8 months. 3.1 Consumer price index. As for that, then, surely that's one of the triggers why to go in this direction and here, and transfer the deposits here, but as from the previous debate, obviously the money on the market today has, it's just a matter of, to activate that same one. That's what we and them with the previous law and here we want to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60609	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60610	Your Honor, Secretary of State. We just heard from Mr. Troscott that he is certain to announce the collection of interest rates by the European Central Bank, as if it were a matter of fact. I wonder if these amendments and additions to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering and alternative investment funds can somehow affect the rise or reduction of the interest rates of European central banks and in general, where are the correlations with the interest rates that central banks are giving? Do they have an impact on each other? Our law that we're discussing today at interest rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60611	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60612	Yes, I think we certainly have to, when we talk about a respected representative of Troscott, remember the Greek financial crisis. Certain aspects were then linked to the Eurozone itself, to debt, to all part and the price of money, etc., cannot be said to have much influence, however, I believe that there are methods and tools how to make this impact... Of course, when we look to the funds, one of the investments that was so far, at least with us, as far as mandatory pension funds were government bonds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Absolutely, when the state is in debt, it has a share of interest. Now they're very low. This fund is certainly, if in this correlation, when we talk about the interest rate itself, it should be monitored because obviously, as soon as the contributions to government bonds are low, obviously and the price of money is low, and these funds need to play their part, which, if demand for money grows, they are the ones who enter and go in this safest way of investment. Also, on the other hand, they provide the inflow of funds for and the economy that is extremely necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60613	Thank you. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60614	I really didn't mean to pick up, but you've already repeated for the fifth time that the state is not a good master. It seems to me that the HDZ is already a little nervous about yours, that one of yours, that one of yours, that refrain we're listening to here. Even your colleague Peric said that the state saved shipbuilding, did not save the state from shipbuilding, saved Danko Končar, owner of Brodotrogir, to whom she wrote off 240 million kuna of debt, most of the debt to HBOR, but did not save the shipbuilding. But the state can really be a good master and I will repeat again, so the French state has a stake in shipbuilding in Peugeot, Italy, the Italian state has a stake in the largest shipbuilding giant Fincantieri, the German state has a stake in Volkswagen, etc. I hope that's not what you meant when you said the state wasn't a good master because you are the master of some companies, let's say the Orlyave and I sincerely hope that you will do everything to make such companies that were once successful become it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60615	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60616	Thank you. So this should, again, be observed in the context of what is said. So as a businessman, as a master, those who are not key, strategic, you who have listed these companies, I would make them all these strategic key companies so talk and shipbuilding, automotive industry, etc., shares to have one, manage something else. An example, of course, is the issue of whether the state should be involved in the production of clothing. Or the textile industry? Is that the sense of taxpayers to invest in clothing production when we are offered so much, that's where we may be different and in that sense I've been saying that so far, all where the state was the owner of such similar companies, they didn't have a good time. Here, and this example. Now, what makes it so and so is that part, about that, then, but here we're certainly talking about something to encourage the market and encourage investment and that the state is just giving a framework and that's the problem with these things. Here, thank you again for.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60617	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 99.; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Agriculture Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60674	... Honored ladies of Parliament's attorneys and gentlemen of Parliament's representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] Agricultural reproductive material is the basis of agricultural production and the first link in the food supply chain and the creation of a agricultural product. Quality seed and fruit material are essential for agricultural production. Seeds and fruit material are strategic products for the design of each production and initial link in the food supply chain and must be sufficient, high quality and safe. The main objective of the Seed Act is to regulate the production, placing on the market and import of agricultural reproductive material of the following groups and species of plants, cereals, feed plants, tails, vegetables, olives, potatoes and plant life, as well as vines, fruit and decoration plants, as well as to determine the jurisdiction of individual bodies in the operations under these laws and regulations adopted under this law, inspection supervision as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of the single system of agricultural seeding and distribution. The system of production and placing on the market of agricultural reproductive material is prescribed by EU directives, so-called marketing directives based on international protocols to ensure that the production of reproductive agricultural material is multiplied and placed on the market uniformly in all Member States. The final draft law defines the competent authorities in the implementation of the law, transposes the provisions of the marketing directives, 14 of them related to the production and placing on the market of agricultural reproductive material, allows for the adoption of national varieties whose agricultural reproductive material will be marketed on the Croatian market as a novelty and thus enables resuscitation, production, placing on the market of indigenous varieties which have been stored in a plant gene bank so far. The adoption of a national programme to preserve the sustainable use of plant genetic resources defining more detailed activities, participants of this programme to preserve indigenous traditional varieties and to find new and store them in a plant gene bank. It improves the system of entry of varieties in varieties, facilitates the fact that agricultural reproductive material must belong to a variety registered or registered in one of the varieties lists when placed on the market. It is possible to place on the market and seeds produced for export if produced according to OECD rules for seed certification, thus eliminating one very common problem in practice so far. Imports of agricultural reproductive material of equivalent quality and method of production into the Republic of Croatia have been ensured. The concept of seed from the holding to be processed is introduced for those plant species belonging to the group of cereals, olives and beautiful plants, whose production area on the holding is not less than 7 hectares. Exceptions for the production of organic heterogeneous agricultural reproductive material are prescribed in accordance with Regulation 848 of 2018 on organic production and labelling of organic agricultural products. The production of a descriptive variety list was introduced on the basis of Polish attempts to facilitate the selection of seed and planting materials in accordance with pedological and climatic conditions and experience with experiments. In the public space, the most controversy caused the obligation to complete its own seed from the agricultural holding and certain issues related to the exemption. And after the meeting of the Croatian Parliament there were a series of meetings, round tables and debates with interested public on this topic. In order to achieve quality law, public comments have been respected and the draft final draft law introduces the obligation to prepare only for plant species from a group of foreign cereals, olives and beautiful plants whose total production area on the agricultural holding is greater than 7 hectares, and more precise and detailed exemptions are prescribed. Furthermore, the conditions for producers to supplement seeds from the agricultural holding have been simplified. In this way, it affects the prevention of the spread of harmful organisms that are an essential factor in economic loss and, on the other hand, the minimum burden on agricultural producers. In addition, compared to first reading, the Final Proposal for a Seed Law on Seed Producers of Seed Vegetables category standards allow simpler conditions for the registration of production and exemption from official supervision, all in order to increase the production of non-satisfactory seed of vegetables. Following this, today we have in the debate the final proposal of the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, which includes most of the remarks and proposals highlighted in the context of the first reading of the law. The application of the provisions of this law will improve the existing system of production and placing on the market of seeds and fruit material and allow farmers on the market to have sound and quality reproductive material, which will ultimately contribute to our strategic objectives both in terms of increasing productivity and increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian food chain in international frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60675	Stay Madam Minister here because there are a whole series of replicas, some of them even before you start talking already. He is the first respected representative of Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60676	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, here you have pointed out in this introduction that since the first reading that was held in the Croatian Parliament on 24 March this year, where many have said that this is the beginning of the collapse of Croatian agriculture, that the adoption of this law will create major problems, we and then argued together with you that through the second reading we will prepare a law that will be much more acceptable in fact to those who were involved. So I want to read this now, and I want to thank the Ministry for listening to all those directly involved in the implementation of this law, and also to the home Committee on Agriculture, which, through its suggestions and discussions, has come to this, and the ministry has come to this, that in this final proposal I think that all actors are equally satisfied with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60677	Thank you. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60678	Thank you very much for your comment. The Ministry of Agriculture understood that most of the fields were actually related to two articles of the law and we tried to develop these two articles in a broad dialogue with the expert and scientific community as well as civil society organisations, and based on the good proposals resulting from the work of the HS Committee, in addition to a series of good provisions that were already highlighted in the first reading, and in terms of preserving and placing on the market of indigenous traditional varieties in terms of equating the quality of the import material with Croatian etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60679	Dear Representative Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60680	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. It is good that this bill does not prohibit small producers from carrying out seed sowing from their own breeds which are not registered or restricting them in the placing on the market of fruit obtained from these varieties for food production purposes. Seeds from the holding for their own use should not be subject to certification because the seed will not be placed on the market, but the obligation to prepare for the prevention, spread of diseases and weeds, for example, is introduced. a snow that spreads to infected seeds, and the embryo is toxic to humans and animals. Can small producers be controlled in such cases, or is everything left to their conscience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60681	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60682	It is foreseen that small producers therefore submit a certain statement and, of course, in accordance with the conditions laid down in other rules and that the Regulation lays down the form and form, as well as the weight of that production. I don't think we need to overstretched everything in detail by law, that a certain consensus has been reached and that we will continue to adopt rules on this law that will strengthen the responsibility of the manufacturer, and most of them care about producing a quality agricultural product of quality seed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60683	Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60684	Thank you. Your Honors Minister. Therefore, the obligation to hire a professional with two years of experience in seed processing operations in a permanent working relationship and the mandatory ownership of machinery and equipment prescribed by this law excludes the possibility of working on small growers, it is only cost-effective to large plants which will not contribute to less amounts of seed from the agricultural holding. Don't you think that this law does not contribute to the reduction of the disease as stated as the basic reason for law-making but rather the opposite, so it reduces access to small producers' work and conditioned the purchase of seeds that pleases seed houses and companies again and imports, rather than our farmers themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60685	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60686	I appreciate the question. But I will explain that the obligation to do this has been introduced for those who have areas under certain species of plants greater than seven hectares and I will remind you that practically 90% of Croatian economies have surface areas below 10 hectares. So, for small producers, no big obligations were imposed, it was actually big professional producers. In addition, mandatory employment is not required for those who will produce seed for their own use, and on a larger area than seven hectares, only basic equipment is required, such exemption is prescribed. 12. in subparagraph 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60687	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60688	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister. If we focus on an article. 17, where reference is made to which seed must be completed, i.e. p. 3. which are exceptions then it is mentioned that the exemptions are agricultural producers whose total production area is a group of not more than seven hectares. And now you may have a little response to what I'm interested in, and that's not a regulation in the EU that doesn't allow it to be more than seven acres, so there are up to 15 hectares in some countries. Why didn't we go to 15 acres or at least 10? Is that protecting the seed industry or what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60689	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60690	Thanks for asking. Different EU countries in different ways regulate the issue. There are significantly more restrictive regulations than Croatia, of course, in order to preserve the health of plants by doing so and human health. So, as far as the surfaces you're proposing are concerned, we're not like I would say by an odmic method, but by talking to a professional and scientific community and associations, we're guided by the fact that in Croatia, the rule of triars and of these seven acres is applied in practice to almost 100% of the producers that are subject to the obligation means at least 21 hectares if they respect, and the vast majority of them are the rule of triars. Virtually more than 90% of manufacturers and in the sector of warfare and the production of cereals and olives are exceptional...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60691	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60692	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honors Minister. It's exactly the same setup that I decided to ask you. So now I understand you well, if you respect that triad, that means that a farmer who has sown grains, olives and beautiful plants in this case means it refers to 21 acres, although my question is why it would not be possible among other things if a man has two cultures, if he has barley and wheat, and here he has a beautiful plant, especially what we heard on the board this morning, and that is that cattle farmers and the question of livestock food is that this is a big problem. Can these variants be combined and can they be reached at 10 hectares?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60693	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60694	So according to the structure of Croatian agricultural production and the fact that we are subject to the rule of triores, tropolies, in some countries and quadruples because it is even considered desirable. In this way statistics show that more than 90% of manufacturers are practically excluded. Therefore, the provision must have its own meaning and application, and it is also easier to build for its own needs significantly compared to the first reading. I think that's where we did everything we needed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60695	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60696	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, of course, it is commendable that the public and opposition objections related to the protection and conservation of plant and genetic diversity of vegetables in the Republic of Croatia are respected and it is commendable that the conditions for the processing of seeds from the family economy are simplified. However, I would also like you to consider the proposed provisions of Article 88, which states that legal and natural persons who do not apply by 30 June 2022 for enrolment in the registers of laboratory suppliers and samples of seed and fruit material are to be deleted from that questionnaire. I believe that the condition of re-proving the ability to register only further increases the administration and procedures which it is agreed upon will probably be unnecessary. Well, I think it's enough for the authorities who have those powers to delete those who don't meet the conditions, not for suppliers and samplers to go through the procedure again, which is actually just a clean pile of administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60697	Dear Minister Vukkovic. Can we calm down for a second?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60698	The procedure has been significantly simplified and a long deadline for regulation of commitments has been left.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60699	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60700	Well, since there were so many reactions to this article, these articles mean 16, 17, why might I be interested in why, before adopting this bill, it might not have consulted with small producers who actually saw this as an attack on themselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60701	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60702	So the Ministry of Agriculture intensively conducts dialogues with all interested associations of manufacturers, always more, better and faster. So we stepped up the dialogues as soon as we started writing, written initiatives towards the Ministry of Agriculture. But certainly except for the part, which is part of the remarks and the provisions of the substantive change, the part is actually done because it was perhaps a different reading of certain, we accepted that then we should explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60703	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60704	Thank you. Dear Minister, can you tell me the average amount of consumption for major cultures, production for the main cultures of warring in Croatia, corn, wheat, soybean and oily rape because today I have gained the impression on the Committee on Agriculture that the ministry does not handle these data, so there are some astronomical amounts, so I wonder if the ministry knows what the averages are for these cultures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60705	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60706	In view of the course of the debate and of what you said and given the different assessments, do not blame me on what I will answer in writing after further verification.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60707	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, here are these amendments to the law and the final proposal we came up with in a broad dialogue, and it took a lot of will and a lot of patience and thanks to the Ministry of Agriculture for that co-operation to hear each other and to get one clarity and that distinction that we really wanted to get means that we see what the rights and obligations of small producers are, for our own reasons, which are the rights and obligations of those great ones and I think that in that segment we have made one step because the very initiative of the Seed of our human rights has been positively declared in the submission that it sent to us. What I would like to ask you, given that we know that our quality of seeds depends on food production, and that somewhere every year about 20% of seeds are not good quality, in which way we can change these trends and how through this law and measures that the Ministry of Agriculture plans we can further stimulate production quality Croatian seed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60709	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60710	Thank you very much, Madam Parliamentarian, I would really like to thank you in particular the entire Committee on Agriculture and you as the heads of this committee in cooperation, for the dialogue and for the help not only in this, in adopting a final proposal for this regulation, but in many other activities done by the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as data on non-quality or quality seed is concerned, we have data that in about the last 5 years, an average of one 20% of seed consumption was related to uncertified seed, but we have no data on how unskilled it really is or not. What joys is the fact that in the last 2 years this percentage has been significantly lower, and that 4-5 years ago we have had in some years, and it seems to me that more than 40% of the consumption of uncertified seed compared to the total seed. Ministry of Agriculture other than, of course, laws, other than supporting the preservation of indigenous and traditional varieties, other than the promotion of our varieties lists Simplification of procedures, additionally for the first time announces the tender [[Intruder: Thank you.]] for investment projects intended for... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60711	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60712	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, according to the provisions of the current laws, the register of seed suppliers is run by the ministry by fruit material. Once this law enters into force, that register will be managed by the Agency for Agriculture and Food and Article 89 as it has revised the deadline within which all documents from the Ministry should be transferred to the Agency. And when we talk about the financial consequences of this bill, among other things, you said that it would take four new employees at the agency to lead, you were just referenced to this register, so now I'm interested in why this provision is in the law, how many people at this time in the ministry are doing it and whether you're going to transfer people from the ministry to the agency, so there's going to be some kind of change because I don't seem to know what word to use, so the ministry is now doing you're transferring a job to the agency and you have to do four new jobs for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60713	Thank you. Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60714	Thank you very much, ma'am, for asking. It doesn't mean that a new number of people are going to be employed because we're making a lot of changes in the structure of the organization, we're mostly ensuring that people move. We can prove this, of course, about the number of employees in both the Ministry of Agriculture and our agencies that have extended our hands. As far as jobs are concerned, our assessment is that four employees of these jobs will work, not only who have done so far, but those new ones that are prescribed by law that are not purely administrative, but are intended to revive indigenous traditional varieties, above all, and even our export opportunities, as well as to equate the quality of import material imported into Croatia. So this is about some new provisions that have nothing but administrative significance, but they should contribute to our strategic goal from field to table that starts with seeds and fruit material.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60715	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60716	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honors Minister. You have already responded to part of the remarks in the replicas of previous MPs, what I am interested in according to the proposal. In the 17th century, you mentioned the amount of 90% of the agricultural holdings that will not be covered by this law. I was wondering if you had any indicative figures on how many O.P.G.s? And given that yesterday, the State Inspectorate established market inspections among other offences and not the traceability of the products sold on the market as far as this law, these regulations and regulations will affect us to better monitor the traceability of food from seeds to tables.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60717	Dear Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60718	I said 90% of the data according to some recent studies of scientific papers say that practically around 89.4% so I circled to 90% of the manufacturers working on the surface in Croatia less than 10 hectares. This is confirmed by our analyses that we did before the production of the agricultural strategy, so that is 90% relative to the indicative number that is moving depending on the year between 165, 166,000 agricultural holdings registered to 173 as recently. As for traceability, this Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Government are making significant efforts to implement traceability. We saw perhaps yesterday certain activities that talk about establishing a national labelling system, it is also one of the elements of traceability. Follow-up is also an important reform activity under the National Resistance and Recovery Programme, which will contribute to the green digital transition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60719	Thank you. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60720	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. We know that agricultural production of seeds in the Republic of Croatia has indeed had a long tradition, mainly in Slavonia and Baranja, where the Agricultural Institute Osijek has been taking over 60 years to play a global role in the global market for seed production. The fact is that in recent years, foreign companies have been trying to take over this market and are imposing themselves, I wonder how these changes to the law will affect large seed producers in the Republic of Croatia and how much will it help them to restore that role to their global say-so-producers on the seed market and to the Republic of Croatia, but also wider throughout the region?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60721	Thank you. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60722	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. So, as with any other activity, the strategic objective will not be achieved only by one regulation but by a series of activities we carry out. As for the movement on the capital market, we can't comment on that right now. In any case, it is good to have our seed houses as much as I can say in Croatian ownership, but it is also good that they show interest in any market which means that they are good, successful and quality. What kind of relationship will ultimately be will determine the market in any case. What is significant is the activity now carried out by this Ministry of Agriculture is that we are soon launching the first tender for the use of Rural Development Investment Measures intended solely for shifters and destroyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60723	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with your associates. The HS Agriculture Committee discussed this law today at its 33rd session. The debate expressed its satisfaction with the adoption of the proposal and the comments of the Committee on Agriculture relating to the certification and production of seeds. It is pointed out that this law should regulate the seed market, but not the use of seeds, and that its provisions will further complicate and collect agricultural production at the OPG due to the expected increase in the price of seeds, which will be particularly felt by producers with mixed production and livestock farmers. The representatives of HPC and HOC are of the opinion that agricultural producers producing seed for their own use should not be included in the seed supplier's register because they use it for their own purposes and do not place it on the market. It is noted that the low availability of fungicides used in seed production for those who do not have registered seed processing. It is warned of the poor quality and insufficient purity of the seeds produced by Croatian producers, which then requires higher amounts of seeds in production. In addition, it was stated that the law required clearer provisions regarding the quality of the seed. The question has been asked whether seven hectares apply to the total irradiated agricultural area of the holding or to the area under certain agricultural crops and art. The 17th century 3. An inquiry was also asked about the reasons why the law did not require sanctioning non-compliance with the provisions of Art. 36 related to the production of fruit material for orderers from third countries. The proposing representative replied that the text of the final draft law was in line with the stakeholders of the sector, and thus the areas proposed for the exemption from the obligation to amend. The law clearly lays down responsibility for the quality of seeds on the market, and 25 fungicides are registered in the Republic of Croatia, of which 2 apply to stinky sleep. It concludes that sufficient available and quality seed is available on the Croatian market and there is no danger of the survival of agricultural production. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to HS the adoption of seed law, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60725	Thank you very much. You can stay here right now because I'm opening a debate, and you're the first to answer. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please welcome the honourable MPs, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Director. Dear MPs and MPs. Agricultural reproductive material is the basis of agricultural production and is the first link in the food production and supply chain. Quality seed and fruit material is one of the basic preconditions for successful agricultural production. The main objective of the Seed Act is to regulate the production, placing on the market and importing of agricultural reproductive material, to determine the jurisdiction of individual bodies, inspection controls, as well as other issues of importance for the implementation of the single system of agricultural seeding and distribution. In the first reading of this legislative proposal, a broad debate was held on the Assembly Committee on Agriculture and with an interested and professional public. Also, because of the clarity of the law, our club of representatives has proposed to be a member. 16 and 17 of the Law of Nomotechnical Development and that it is clearly indicated that small producers who use seed from the agricultural holding for their own purposes, not for placing on the market, are excluded from the obligation to certification, processing and that it is necessary to flexible the production in order to make it available to everyone at affordable prices and not to cause food collection. We are pleased that the Ministry of Agriculture has accepted these suggestions. The final proposal does not restrict the use of domestic for its own purposes for non-commercial purposes or restrict the principles of organic production. All seed from the holding, other than plant species from groups of stratified cereals, olives and pre-vegetable plants, whose total production area on the holding is greater than 7 hectares, has been released from the processing obligation. We believe that it is important that through both the previous debate now and through the replicas it is clarified that these 7 hectares apply to each particular culture, if the farmer is holding fruitored and that this can eventually reach 21 hectares of sown seeds without finishing. Also, the debate took place around Art. The 18th century 3 which is prescribed that the agricultural producer producing seed for its own use and supplementing it itself should be entered in the Register of Seed Suppliers. Such a provision has raised concerns among farmers that they will be charged with additional administrative and financial burdens, regardless of what simpler conditions are prescribed for them by law, so I think it is important that we also get an explanation for this article by the Ministry which the farmer's obligations ultimately have, when he is working on his own and whether there are any concerns in that segment. Producers of vegetable seed category standards have been granted simpler conditions for registration of production and exemption from official supervision. Also, through this Law, the potato production sector is excluded from the obligation to complete seeds from the agricultural holding, our arguments have been accepted that there is no practical possibility for such processing to be carried out. It is important to point out that the Law fully respects the principles of organic production and organic seed production, as well as the need to preserve and develop plant genetic resources. It should be recalled that the system of production and placing on the market of agricultural reproductive material is regulated by EU directives based on international protocols. The agricultural reproductive material is passed through the certification process, i.e. official production control before placing on the market. In the case of seeds preserved on the holding, farmers may use the harvest product, which they have obtained by sowing on their own holding. This applies to all varieties which are not protected by intellectual property rights. As regards protected varieties, seeds preserved on a farm of certain sorates prescribed by the Council Regulation on the processing rights of the Community plant variety may be used, however, compensation must be paid to plant variety holders. Small farmers don't have to pay such a fee. The European seed legislation does not lay down rules on the seed processing process or on the registration of seed suppliers, including processors. Furthermore, the supply to seed providers of processing or packaging services does not fall under the definition of placing on the market provided that the service provider does not acquire the right of ownership on so supplied seed. However, treatment with plant protection means must be followed by EU legislation on plant protection products. In order to preserve indigenous traditional varieties and store in the Bank of Plant Genes, the Seed Act prescribes the adoption of a national programme for the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources to define the detailed activities to be carried out by the participants of that national programme. It also overlooked the possibility of bringing certain national varieties of seeds and fruit material to quickly introduce indigenous traditional and endangered varieties from the Bank of Plant Genes into the production and marketing systems. Semenisation today involves high and expensive technology and highest-level expertise from production and completion of seeds, quality control and other parameters, with constant concern about the consistency of the implementation of the prescribed procedures and the conditions followed by each individual process. The aim is to produce seeds of top quality, acceptable and attractive for production, and demands are growing, especially in the context of climate change. And while in the production of seeds of sharp grains, for example wheat and barley, we record a negative trend, we also note the decline in the production of corn seeds, on the other hand, there has been an increase in the production of soybean seeds and total soybean production in Croatia, and it is important to point out that the soybeans without genetically modified organisms have developed a strong brand on the market. Some producers point out that soybeans are the most profitable culture in total ratar production. Compared to the GMO strain, soybean produced in Croatia extremely achieves high prices for almost EUR 200 per tonne more than some others, which is proof of the justification of all the activities we have carried out in Croatia to ban the sowing of genetically modified seeds and for experimental purposes. I have repeatedly pointed out that we do not care if we produce enough food at affordable prices for our citizens and thus reduce food dependence on imports. Our national sovereignty should be strengthened through the creation of food security, where our farmers must play a key role and in cooperation with them we should create laws and develop measures to produce food and preserve rural space. Experts warn that the crop of uncertified seeds reduces the yield of nearly 3 tonnes per hectare and that fact should be kept in mind when making further decisions. The conclusions of the European Commission study published on the European seed regulation propose the following. Do nothing or improve procedures and consistency in legislation and introduce ad hoc measures to increase sustainability or introduce flexibility to adapt to technological development in order to improve access to genetic resources and in a coherent way access to sustainability objectives. We have not chosen a solution to cross hands and do nothing because the future of mankind depends on food and on food for seed. Genetic erosion leads to biodiversity loss, and according to FAO estimates, we've lost 75% of genetic diversity over the last 100 years. By passing the Seed Act, we protect agricultural producers and ensure that quality and healthy seed material is used. By implementing the law, we will better preserve biodiversity, and in particular contribute to the preservation of existing indigenous and traditional varieties. The implementation of the law will prevent the spread of harmful organisms that are an essential factor in economic loss. This law balances import standards for agricultural reproductive material. Agricultural and reproductive material imported must be identical to the quality of agricultural reproductive material produced on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Also, we will provide assumptions of self-sufficiency and quality in production through the selection of seeding and planting materials that should give the best results according to climate conditions. The amendments to the final draft legislation were adopted after dialogue with the professional and interested public as well as producer associations with a view to reducing the burden on agricultural producers, increasing areas under seed production, but not at the expense of the production of high-quality and healthy seed material. All of these are the reasons why our club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60727	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be that HSS and the Workers' Front, and will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60728	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues are one of the most important topics for Croatian agriculture, but for the Republic of Croatia is also the law that we are discussing today before the vote that will be adopted on Friday, whether our remarks or not have been accepted, if they will not be accepted, I think it will go to the detriment of agricultural producers and total production in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that we live in abundance today, unfortunately not all of us, there are many people who dig through buckets that you can meet every day, not because there is no food to buy, but because they have nothing to buy, but we are not all aware that we are one step ahead of hunger. The climate changes that have been expressed over the past years, last year we had a marked drought, this rainy year, this year we have a drought, it can very quickly change the course and the possibility of food production for the sufficientness of the Republic of Croatia. Although the Republic of Croatia is almost in nothing but some war culture is not enough and in case the borders are closed, I think this part that I said would be a step towards hunger and problems in the state with supply and supply. This Law on Seeds and Fruit Material, unfortunately, did not recognize the geopolitical and geostrategic problems in the world and in the region in which we live. He didn't recognize that it was better to be a bad farmer's or a worse farmer's seed than to be the best certified seed you can't get to, which you can't get to. This year we had a problem that the most productive corn hybrids were not available to many who wanted to shine them, so they had to shine less productive, and we're talking about raising productivity. For what? Because those hybrids aren't made, certified or distributed. Unfortunately, today there are producers who buy certified seeds, the cheapest soy seed, feed their cattle with it, and sow their farm seed because it is better quality, it has better skating energy, it has more leachability and it gives greater births. This law didn't recognize it. He did not recognize the bad attitude towards seed and fruit material of seed houses that are now seeking to master through this law 100% by marketing seeds and fruit material. Unfortunately, however, this will never be fully possible. I also said that today on the Committee on Agriculture. 20% of the seed material used is so-called Farm seed that people leave alone. It will continue to exist despite this law, despite the certification obligation. When soy soybeans are soybean soybean soybean soybean soybean soybeans, you must submit an account for 80 kg of seed soybeans to exercise your rights. Soybeans are never so low or if they are 100 or 120 kg per hectare we manufacturers always add 20 kg per hectare because the quality of the work is very bad. When you find the earth’s breasts, stones, half soybeans in the seed material, and each one takes it as a grain reduces you and reduces the assembly, and no one is responsible for that part of bad quality. In Article 20(7), for the quality of the semen, the supplier of the semen shall be responsible for placing it on the market. When seed is state-owned in conditions that do not ensure maintenance of its quality. How we're going to examine it, we know that they've been in bad conditions. I bought the seed, brought it, prepared it, lagered it because I have to buy the seed in the first, second or third month if I want to shine what I want. I have to keep it at home, sow it, it doesn't pop up because it's going to say bad crop conditions, droughts, ignorance, or I don't know what it's going to say. But no producer will prove that the seed producer is a grower or supplier responsible for the poor quality of that seed. It's a reality. That's what we're going through. It was this year with the soybean of a manufacturer, I won't name it here, i.e. supplier. People had reduced circuits, they had problems, they were glowing. Production's going down right away. Unfortunately, I can't help it. They did call the MPs, but they just said what I said, so you didn't sow well, you didn't work well, so you were dry, a hundred reasons. The money they gave for the material, for the quality they didn't get that quality. Therefore, it should be noted in this article that in that chain of production of seed material for quality is the responsibility of both the seed producer and the grower and the seed supplier that puts it on the market. All three must be responsible for the quality of the seed and more rights must be guaranteed to farmers and the possibility to prove the poor quality of the seed. This year I got three bags of Pionir soy M-10, which is on our Italian variety list. When you opened that bag, I admired the quality of that seed for 15 minutes, and when I opened Lucia of the Osijek Institute, then I'd rather cry because I didn't leave the seed last year because all this I counted was inside. Which is why I and all other producers have to suffer the sloppyness of seed growers and their monopoly on the market and what makes it possible for them to sell anything they want very expensive without us having any rights to do so. Article 17, which states that farmers can grow seed from a group of cereals, olives and beautiful plants on their holding, should allow that quantity to rise, not 7 hectares. Here I have to admit that I also don't know if it's total, whether for each of these species if I have 7 acres of soy, 7 acres of grain and 7 acres of beautiful plant is not. Why didn't you put that on? So family farms that are not in the VAT system up to 30 ha have a obligation to grow two cultures. These are family economies that need to increase productivity, they need to increase, and they can ensure survival and a quality of life for their family. Let's put 10 ha here per culture, per each plant species. You'll help them. They're not gonna sow all their seeds again. Here I have never sown uncertified seeds or soybeans. I don't do wheat, no crazy corn does its farm seed, everybody buys hybrids. I don't think this is a step that's going to change anything, it's not going to ruin the developers, but it's going to help those who have to buy the cheapest seed soy, give it to the cattle and take its own. So these are living examples on the ground we're experiencing. I'm glad that potato growers managed to fight to leave their seeds even though there's a bigger problem than soy, because of the virus, the reduction of the crop, that I don't talk any further. But it's a good thing you put it in the law that people can leave their seeds. We know how much the price of the Elite seed potato comes from the Netherlands or where it comes from. What about the veggies? Why can't the producers just say the peppers can't leave their seeds? The production of concrete paprika tomatoes in Croatia has no certified seed, the quality the market requires. On our market there is a sale called mother's paprika or a mother's paprika derivative which our producers themselves and I have been growing for years, we cultivate our seeds to be competitive on the market. Now we're gonna have to buy the botin yellow, show that we bought it, and yet we're gonna sell what we grew. Here's my good intentions I won't say criticism, but I want to help make this better, make it easier for our agriculture to move forward and make it easier to live and survive for small producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60729	Thank you very much. You've been interesting, you can see you're ruling this area, but it's time, the chronometer flows better. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac will represent the views of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60730	Thank you. Dear Vice President, dear ministers with their associates. The promoter held several meetings, round tables and discussions with the interested public especially on prominent articles from the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament, which is finally commendable. But I remind you, this is also the obligation of a proposing representative, a legal obligation that ministry representatives too often avoid, and avoiding the application of the provisions of the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations brings us into conflict between those who form a proposal for the content of the law and those who must apply the provisions of the same regulation in their life and business. In line with the proposals for the proposal for a seed law, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants in the first reading, certain amended proposals related to the completion of Articles 16 and 17 have been adopted and the final proposal for the law makes it more clear which plant species are subject to processing and which farmers are excluded from the obligation to process, but which includes the processing of seed from the holding. The final draft law introduces the obligation to prepare for plant species and groups of stratified cereals, olives, beautiful plants whose total production area on the agricultural holding is greater than 7 hectares. Here again, as in the last debate, I will ask if we know how much new cost this provision of law will impose on our farmers. Are we aware of the time in which the prices of all re-compromisations go up due to the rise in fuel prices, so we are obviously not ashamed to introduce new commitments and new financial and administrative burdens. Because this is nothing more than an imposition on more than 57,000 economies dealing with war production regardless of whether they are served by a heated culture for their own purposes. Because I remind every cattleman is primarily a warrior. The proposer argues that the conditions for producers to supplement seeds from the holding are simplified. In this way, the applicant argues that it will prevent the spread of harmful organisms that are an essential factor in economic loss, with the emphasis on the financial burden of agricultural producers. Article 17 says seed processing is a drying, cleaning, calibration, plying, treatment of plant protection products, packaging, filling and labelling, and the supplier of seeds registered for processing may produce natural seed if a record of official control is issued for that seed, a certificate of crop recognition or a document on the origin of seed from the holding provided by the seed supplier. Closure in this context means total control of everything that someone sows for their own needs, and many of the actions necessary for the control of plant health or cultivation for their own needs. So, I mean the calibration, the packaging, the flattening, the marking. In order to access the work of the manufacturer, a document should be adopted on the origin of seed from the holding provided by the seed supplier. This re-establishs that seed for its own use may only be produced from purchased seed and trader, i.e. the supplier should issue a certificate confirming it. The farmer himself is not registered in the Register of Suppliers. During the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2017, the manufacturer shall submit a report to the competent authority of the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State concerned. And, of course, that's worth it. And depending on where the economy is located, it also creates logistics problems, because service repairs are not available in all counties, so the farmer will rarely have to go hundreds of miles to take the seeds to work and do everything that he has been able to do for his own needs so far in accordance with existing rules in the field of plant health and the rights of the processor. The work itself may not be so expensive, but transportation is extremely important and a great cost. The whole system of finishing was designed and has so far functioned within a system of production and processing of larger quantities for the market. This system cannot monitor the needs of farmers and small quantities that they would bring to work. For the purposes of family economies with the aim of protection against disease and weeds, a smaller service system should be designed as a possibility, but not as a commitment. The production capacity could be ensured through rural development measures as an additional activity in the economy without the obligation to hire experts in a permanent working relationship when the completion is carried out only a few months a year, at a time when the seed is prepared for sowing. Speaking of financial resources, I must point out, as the adoption of a new law will increase the scope of the Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency's business, the proposer states that four people should be employed indefinitely. The funds for those employment are not planned in the projections of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food Budget for 2022 and 2023, and will be planned when drawing up the Budget Plan in accordance with the limits allocated. For me, this is a sufficient indicator of how we are based on the draft law on Article 174. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should also have an indication of the impact of the regulations from which the fiscal impact of this law is visible. There's no standard contribution to that. The provisions of the articles of this proposal provide for the implementation of inspection supervision of the need for the implementation of this law, the law, the duties and powers of phytosanitary and agricultural inspectors, the exercise of inspection control, the import of agricultural reproductive material, the solutions issued by the competent inspectors, and the sampling of the conduct of inspection controls to determine the quality of agricultural reproductive material. But does our State Inspectorate have sufficient capacity to implement these provisions when we know how difficult it is for them to verify, for example, contracts on the use of State agricultural land, all the sublet present, the ambrosia that is spreading, and units of local self-government do not respond adequately, then the implementation of economic programmes based on the use of state land and a series of other illogicalities that we have in the country and in agriculture. Are we creating unnecessary costs by this law, not only for farmers but also for the state administration? The potato production sector was excluded, quite logically, after the first reading arguments presented, from the obligation to process seeds from the agricultural holding because it was found that there was no practical possibility of implementing such a regulation and it would be particularly harmful. Article 5 12 It is defined that the manufacturer who wants to produce seed for his own purposes should buy the necessary machines for processing and register in the register of farm seed suppliers as a processor. Article 4 18 It is defined that for the production of natural seed, a document on the origin of seed from the agricultural holding should be kept. This creates additional costs for manufacturers and administrative obligations. I therefore find it extremely important to reiterate that the seed from the agricultural holding is not mentioned in any legal act by the EU or Croatia, except in the context of the right of the processor in charge of the processing rights for protected varieties. We therefore believe that the problem needs to be addressed in the context of the debate on the collection of the said fee that we consider important, rather than the completion of the seed. I note how EU Regulation No. 1768/95 on the processing rights of the Community plant variety and accompanying documents complementing it by small holdings such as those where the crops of a type of blood or industrial plant are produced on an area larger than those required for the production of 92 tonnes of cereals, which is significantly more than what our Ministry prescribes, i.e. these 7 hectares. We remain unclear who and how can issue the seed origin document from the agricultural holding, and it is even questionable that monitoring the implementation of such rules is carried out. If it is sufficient for the manufacturer to possess machinery for cleaning and calibration of seeds, the purpose of such processing is not to reduce quarantine plant diseases, which is the guide here as the main argument of the introduction of this regulation, but rather to reduce the spread of weeds and seeds of more quality seed, which should not be imposed again as a obligation. Article 2 14 it is not clear whether the provision applies to the total area on which the holding produces those cultures or exclusively to the area that is sown from its own seed. Further clarification is required to be given to the quantities of a particular culture from its own seed, so that there is no practical interpretation and illogicality in the implementation. Once again, the term seed from the holding does not exist in any of the existing EU directives that regulate the area of seed farming, or marketing directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60731	Thank you, too. Now it's in front of Mrs. Green-Left Block Representatives' Club. Raukar-Gamulin and who will share time with Mr. Matul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60732	Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Green-Left bloc club welcomes, above all, that the Final Bill has been corrected in a way that has respected a number of comments from part of the expert community, then a series of associations of agricultural producers and opposition. We believe that this proposal respects the principles of organic production and organic seed production, as well as the need to preserve and develop plant genetic resources. We also welcome what they are. 12 seed producers of category standards for vegetable species and indigenous varieties exempt from the obligation to hire an expert, which will greatly facilitate the launch of seed production of those cultures. In addition, equalise the possibility of our producers with producers of other EU countries. We also appreciate the particularly harmful nature of the obligation to complete seed from the agricultural holding in the potato sector and to give up that requirement because there is really no possibility to implement it in practice. Yet in this improved version of the bill's proposal we still see a space for progress, the colleagues have already talked about it, but it is necessary, of course, and repeat it. In particular, representatives of the associations continue to be subject to mandatory processing because the regulation on plant protection rights, on the Community plant variety, and accompanying documents define small holdings such as those on which crops are concerned, means cereals, blood and industrial plants produced on an area larger than those required for the production of 92 tonnes of cereals, which is significantly more than 7 hectares prescribed in this Act. For example, by simple mathematics to be calculated, that in the case of a record yield of 8 tonnes per hectare, this allowed area is 11.7 hectares, which is therefore significantly more than the envisaged 7 in this Bill proposal. Then we hold that Art. 5. 12 which is defined that the manufacturer who wants to produce seed for his own purposes should buy the necessary machines for processing and register in the register of the supplier of agricultural seed as a grower and also, Art. 4 18 which is defined as having a document on the origin of seed from the holding for the production of natural seed. That's what makes producers extra costs and administrative obligations. In addition, it is unclear who is and in exactly how they issue seed origin documents from the holding, such as unclear and in order to closely monitor such prescribed rules. Also, and we have warned of this in previous discussions, the concept of seed from agricultural holdings does not exist in any of the existing EU directives that regulate the area of seed farming. The Seed Act itself refers exclusively to commercial use and the seed market and regulates seeds from the holding as seeds which are explicitly prohibited from placing on the market. Since farmers are carrying out the activities of agricultural production, so they place farmed products on the market, and not seeds, they cannot be identified with seed companies and guidance, the introduction of that said and, in our opinion, an extremely controversial concept, simply makes no sense. The explanation offered by the Ministry of Agriculture is that the introduction of the concept of seed from the holding is necessary in order to bring into order the gray zone in the field of seed cultivation for our own needs, but we remind the Ministry that the cultivation of seeds is for our own purposes, and that the exchange of such seeds is an extremely important mechanism for preserving biodiversity, especially in times of crisis that we unfortunately witness more and more frequently and is recognised as the right of every producer to a number of international contracts, declarations and strategies. Here, I'd stop you, and a colleague will... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60733	Here you go, Mr. Matul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60734	... Ma'am. Secretary of State with an associate. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased to say here that there are numerous, numerous organizations that have launched the Seed Initiative is our human right, they have had to say that it was made in this final bill, that there has been significant progress and that there has been one quality dialogue to this moment, but also, we want to say that it is precisely why you said that it is now stuck on this famous, famous 7 acres and they are certainly having all the problems, however, as if after everything and in this version of the Law they are pushing, as someone said well on the board this morning, they are still forced into the gray zone and so they will still have to have no idea what kind of confirmation for what is here, there is no longer a name for the economy. I would just like to remind myself that in this initiative, at that moment there were a number of these associations, that there were 25 thousand members who joined 17 900 at the time when the debate, citizens, interested citizens, farmers, interested scientific communities from all over Croatia, and not just these interestingly connected which, together with the seminaries, was connected. And she had this interest that out of those 18, 20% of the people were still forced to buy seeds like this that we had the chance to listen to, Mr. Lenart, and where you can't prove in the end that the seed was a problem, but it's always your fault, especially if you're a kid, it's always your fault. I'll repeat, Minister, you didn't say my question specifically, before you mentioned that there is this fruitored that allows, if it's tropoly that it can be interpreted as 7 acres, but when I asked, I realized that no, you mentioned and there are these quadruples, or so organized, there are in us. Of course, it's more common in Europe. This one here is rare, but there's this one with us, and I don't see a reason why it couldn't be defined that way, and we're going to do it in the amendment, and we're going to say it's up to four surfaces, and we're going to lose time now because I'm interested in getting attention, if it's four fields. And why wouldn't she be up to 10 acres? We know that the vast majority of these are less than 10 acres, but if they are 4 fields, then cattlemen who said this morning that they are really in trouble and that they can't pay for this dora that goes from 0,90 kuna to kuna and 40, that they can't pay 4 kunas for livestock food, that they can't pay for it and that they have big problems. I'm convinced that in this way they could produce, those who, these few who have little, little larger surfaces. Here, that would be our attempt from the green-left block to complete this last-reading law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60735	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Matula. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60736	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. In the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Seeds, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, it is before us. And let me start by thinking maybe this debate just goes a little differently. This summer, in a little bigger society, we all remembered the smell and taste of childhood together, and among other things, I remembered the salad that my grandmother had in the garden and I said that I no longer remember the taste of such salad, that I never ate such salad again and that my mother replied to me: “But it was my grandmother who worked from her seed, from her own seed.” And then actually remember both the ideas and the importance of the law, and so what we often discuss in the laws, often we do not shed light on the importance and the role of the law and which they have. And then, of course, I remembered this law. I shouldn't have thought of that in the summer, but I remembered. When I'm discussing something, I want to be always and correct and honest. We often have some other laws in which the opposition points to the problem not because we want to be bad, not because we want to be bad, not because we get bad from the rulings, but because we really want the final proposal to be better, to be more acceptable. I must remind you about this Law, and there were also a series of organizations in front of the Parliament, and they were writing and people dealing with agriculture. And what we need to be honest is that the ministry as well as in the reasoning of the Law has noted some of these proposals, that it has respected what was the main opposition. But of course, it always needs to be better and always has to strive to be better. What my predecessors said, and I'm going to repeat again, in terms of the norm of the law, it's not clear those 7 acres whether those 7 acres refer to one culture, or those 7 acres refers to the total. So if it's 3 times 7 hectares 21 or 4 times 7, 28 or it's a total of 7 and it's possible to solve it. This could also be resolved by an amendment to the government that will come to a vote that will most likely be Friday. Some clubs have also announced amendments related to 10 hectares. Perhaps the time has come for both the government and the Ministry to make one effort and accept which amendment of opposition to make the statement clearer, although all point to 10 hectares, perhaps it is important to know. What I want to discuss in this debate are some things that should be equally considered if not by amendment, but through the application of this Law. So the role and importance of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the role and importance of the laboratory. If we don't have good and high-quality laboratories, then you always have a problem with samples at all in what you get and that's what needs to be taken care of. And now there's something in this law that I think is illogical and something that I should definitely define. Therefore, it is the Ministry that provides a solution to the authorisation of laboratories and reference laboratories on the basis of requests. It is the Ministry that will refuse the request for authorisation, and the supervision of these laboratories is based on the provisions of Article 6 that says, "The training of analysts and the supervision of the work of the laboratory for the control of the quality of agricultural reproductive material for the purposes of the agencies." It seems to me, or I'm sure it would be incomparably better. So I don't doubt that the Ministry should make decisions on the authorisation of laboratories and reference laboratories, I don't doubt that the Ministry is also to be guided or rejected. But somehow it seems to me that if the Agency is working surveillance, then the Agency should, as well as already run all these books, run a register on laboratories. I must remind you that the Agency also runs a register of farm seed suppliers, and a register of suppliers of agricultural fruit material and a register of farmers. So, she's running those books. I think you should keep a record of the labs. Because this way when he wants to go into someone's surveillance, then he's gonna ask the Ministry to send them the lab records. So it seems to me it would be good to do. And what makes us this law in our debate that we must take care of, therefore, is that if I am not mistakenly speaking or in a replica of any project from field to table at all. So this is one project which Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture and Croatia are implementing and we need to speak in the context of climate change. So this crown and story with the crown has surfaced all of our problems in the hill of resources, and all of our problems in agriculture. It has surfaced and problem as far as Croatia can be self-sufficient in food production and we know it cannot be self-sufficient. In some things, yes, but in some things, no. She's shown the problems we have because no matter what climate change is like, everybody likes to talk about it, but let's try to shed some light on it, climate change doesn't happen anywhere else, they happen here. The consequences will be seen by us and the consequences will soon be seen in agriculture. I'm not going to talk about that kind of rising sea level and the whole Neretva Valley that's going to happen with the changes that are going to happen. And climate change won't happen to anyone else anywhere or any other generation. They hit us, our generation and climate change are here. We live in that context, and we need to take care of it. And when we talk about any topic that is related to agriculture, we have to talk about this subject, so it all starts in seed farming, it all starts with fruit material. It all starts with the cultures that we grow today, and the question is that farmers grow whether it will be possible to grow them tomorrow or the day after. And that's where we have to take care of ourselves and ask ourselves what we want, what we protect, and what we are ultimately really dealing with. Write one law you can write it. This law must be implemented and beyond that we must know what the purpose and purpose of this law is. The purpose and purpose of this law is not by chance that the Croatian agency which is responsible for many legal procedures is called for agriculture and food. The point and goal must be how to ensure self-sufficiency in some things, how to help our farmers, not introduce them. So, we don't just prescribe the Directive of the European Union and we say that that's how it's supposed to be. We need to take care of the present, we need to take care of the frameworks and some niches in which they live, what they meet and who their problems are and what problems they have and try to give an answer to. I'm kind of gonna end up the way I started. I have to admit when I read the reasoning of this law I was basically kind of feeling, feeling good. When the Proposer tells you, there have been strong objections to the provisions of Articles 16 and 17. We've had a public discussion, a debate, and we've made some changes. We have a new article 17 and 18 that we tried to define. You feel that you are still involved in the creation of the law and that this law will be better. Somehow, it seems to me that it would be good for the ministry to make an additional effort in terms of this definition of seven or ten acres and a clear statement as far as this applies. And this debate that was in relation to the lab and the agency, I'm sure you'll get to it yourself soon, and maybe it's time, so maybe you can give your own amendment or accept some of our amendments that will be delivered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60737	Thank you, too. Ms. Martina Vlasic Iljkic will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60738	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, respected ministers with associates. As well as the first reading of this law, the SDP Club stressed the importance of agricultural issues as a matter of national security. We are pleased that proposals and criticisms, and various round tables based on seeds, still came to the minister. Because agriculture is still a matter of national security. The first bill came across a huge criticism of the opposition as well as the general public. Today, we have a more acceptable version of this law, and the proposal for repair is still in place and the SDP club will submit an amendment to the bill. But in any case, we welcome that you have finally obeyed the profession, because the profession itself has had a great deal to do with the first version of this law. For a reason, we are wondering how the ministry prepared this proposal. Obviously unilaterally and without the relevant stakeholders involved to a sufficient extent. Because once again, insufficient cooperation is confirmed between those who need to make legal proposals, which is the ministry with those concerning the law, or those who need to enforce the laws adopted. Once again, we will remind ourselves that since Croatia's entry into the EU, agricultural production has been reduced by 5 billion kuna, and in our country self-sufficiency in fruit, vegetables and meat production has decreased significantly compared to the time before EU entry. That says a lot that our criticisms are very well-founded. As early as December 2019, a European Green Plan was adopted with the main goal of making Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050. This is the most important strategic document for the development of agriculture in which guidelines are given for the next 30 years. The areas of green-plan policy include biodiversity, field-to-table strategy and sustainable agriculture and rural areas. It is written so that it is precisely small farms that can make the most of it, but here it has been for a year and nine months as it has been adopted by us, it has been spoken little of and too little of it. Why am I saying that? Well, here's from first to second reading, it's been half a year, and instead of dealing with that very green plan, so that we can help our small and medium-sized farmers better and stronger for half a year, they've been correcting the mistakes that our village would already be poored. The seed law, fruit material and recognition of agricultural plant varieties still have room for improvement. Because the amendment to the disputed article 16 of the first reading did not solve all the problems that could arise from this Law. The law introduces a new term of seed from the agricultural holding for sowing of agricultural plants is produced and intended exclusively for sowing on its own holding, which is prohibited from placing on the market, and that term does not exist in any European directive, neither in the legislation nor in one EU member. We also warned during the first reading that we do not know how you came up with this idea, but it still leaves the impression that you wrote it in collaboration with certain lobbyists. We believe that Article 17(3) of the fifth indent, which reads as follows: ‘Agricultural producers whose total production area of certain plant groups referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is not greater than 7 hectares’ is not the best solution. There remains much uncertainty behind this article and room for manipulation is left. We support what is excluded from the finishing of seeds of vegetables, potatoes, feed plants as organic seed and local populations and varieties. We have expressed concern about the cost of supplementing seeds and, consequently, the increase in total cost of production, so we support the simplification of the conditions for the processing of seeds from agricultural holdings which now does not include packaging, filling and labelling. We hope that these additional costs for small producers will still be somewhat lower than proposed by the first Bill proposal. However, when it comes to costs, Article 88 remains controversial. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. in Articles 10, 11, 12 and 13. on a total of 4 pages of text. According to those provisions, samplers for enrolment in the register should demonstrate the professional training, the training, have proof of completed training and make a declaration of work according to the rules of the profession. For laboratories, the procedure is even more complex, so they should also have evidence of the possession of equipment, provide a description of the procedures for each method of testing and of each plant species, evidence of interlaboratory cooperation and evidence of accreditation. Reference laboratories with the above must organise interlaboratory cooperation, training of analysts and samplers and various workshops. It's about hundreds of people and documents and hours of work spent in administration. Why do they have to re-enter and go through this procedure again if the Agency has the power to delete all samples and suppliers that do not meet the conditions and the Ministry can remove the powers of the laboratories with a solution? We therefore propose that article 88 be deleted, and so will our amendment in front of the SDP Club. In addition, we would like to stress that the National Programme for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Plant Genetic Sources for Food and Agriculture in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2021 to 2023 was adopted only two months ago, which means that you are a year late. So again this is about the Ministry's delay in preparing strategic documents. In our opinion, the programme for this period should be adopted at the end, or even earlier in 2020. And now, finally, we hope that in the creation of a sublegal act relating to the implementation of this Act, the Ministry will quality include all interested stakeholders and the public with a view to making documents as high as possible and avoiding the agony that we have witnessed in the development of the first version of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60739	You, too. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mrs. Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60740	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here we have already heard on several occasions that this Final Bill proposal has nevertheless been slightly improved in relation to the first version, particularly the controversial articles 11, 16 and 17, and in this respect both representatives of the profession or the initiative of the seeds of our human right have expressed their satisfaction, as the principles of organic production, organic seed production and the need to preserve and develop plant genetic resources are respected. I remind you that the initiative was involved in the adoption of this law. However, there are still some controversial matters. According to data from the State Statistics Institute, seeds are produced in the Republic of Croatia at about 400 hectares. The Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food has announced that in 2019, out of 986 registered in the supplier's register, 188 reported production, while others were engaged in imports. There are 106 family farms among producers. Protecting small producers must be our imperative. It is therefore good to amend paragraph 3 in Article 17 of this final law or in the disputed Article 16 of the first reading, so as to exclude the production of seeds of agricultural plant species that go to the category of preserved variety or varieties developed for cultivation under certain conditions. Then the item related to organic agriculture, the local population of varieties that are not listed on the varieties lists and are not protected by processing rights. And that disputed part, therefore, of agricultural producers whose total production area of certain groups of plants is not greater than 7 hectares. So this is still what we have heard from many of us the disputed situation, or the disputed provision, because we are subject to a stricter rule than EU regulations. In many countries, up to 15 hectares or 10 hectares are left, so that regardless of the clarification given by the minister and these here associations require that at least 10 hectares be actually defined, or further clarification, that the quantities of a particular culture from their own seed should not in practice be interpreted differently and the illogicalness of implementation. The next thing I would refer to is Article 9 which speaks about the National Programme for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Plant Genetic Sources. The decision to adopt the National Programme was signed by Prime Minister Plenkovic on 29 July 2021 and is now defining activities in this final proposal, the National Programme is defined as funding from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. But what's not defined is what I'm really interested in, so I believe we'll hear some details about how many users will be covered by this program, what kind of application is, how much money is given. And then in preparation for the debate, I came across an article in the media where it's here, and I hope it's not appropriate because of this final proposal for Law 23. 9 started the implementation of the National Programme for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Plant Genetic Sources for Food and Agriculture where 590 thousand kunas from the state budget are allocated to the participants of the National Programme. There are no words about the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, so I hope we will hear some details. This article also lists all the participants of the National Programme. However, according to the information I came up with in the conversation with some of these participants, it is not all as wonderful as it is mentioned and presented. This way you would actually present the work of my, our Međimurka Silviy Kolar Fodor from the Biowright Association which is one of the participants of this National Programme. It formed a bank of seeds richer than the state, which counts over 600 varieties of fruits, vegetables, spices and healing plants and flowers. There are numerous ancient forgotten species that actually protects from extinction, exchange seeds with individuals and associations, and thus increase the collection of seeds. In 2016 they started with a Seed Keepers Programme, which includes 60 rare endangered old varieties, such as tomatoes and beans more than is stored in these Croatian seed banks. And we think that such associations and individuals should be stimulated, motivated, and in fact they are not just participants on the paper of this National Programme for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Plant Genetic Sources, so I hope that here by ruling, they will finance and co-finance such individuals and associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60741	Thank you. Mr. Pavic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60742	Dear MPs, we're all proud of our country, our homeland, our city, our village, our settlement, and I think we need everything that's related to it to protect and keep it safe. In your presentation, you mentioned an association from Međimurje Biovrt in accordance with nature. This association is for certain types of vegetables specifically for tomatoes and peas has a seed bank larger than a state bank. I'm wondering if you might have gotten in touch with them and if you have information on whether and how much money they receive from the funds and whether someone from the state or from the budget might be helping them locally, whether they're from the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60743	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60744	Thank you very much. Yes, I've contacted Mrs. Sylvia Kolar Fodor. She is one of the participants of this initiative "Seme is our human right" and as a matter of fact, as I have pointed out, it is not all as wonderful as it was presented in this article that I mentioned to you 23. The 9th has begun this implementation of the National Programme. It is defined here that the total amount is 590 thousand kuna for these several participants. But as far as I can tell, her association hasn't gotten any money yet. Before that, they got some kind of inspection so that they could even access this National Programme, so I hope that this will be better defined and that actually those people who keep our old seeds will have the opportunity to actually get a concrete financial injection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60745	Thank you. Mr. Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60746	Thank you very much. Here is a respected colleague, Marić, who comes from the same area from Međimurje County where the production of potatoes is 80% of the total production in the Republic of Croatia. Do you express your satisfaction that by changing the Law in the second reading, however, our producers are allowed to complete or calibrate, I would say on the doorstep or on their OPGs, and thus very relieved and physically and also the financial production of potatoes whose price varies drastically from kuna and less than one year to, say, 4.5 kunas like this year?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60747	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60748	Yes, thank you very much. Here's my colleague Kolarek and I can deal with not only our Biowart Association, but also our potato manufacturers. Of course, everything that is well supported and well defined in this final bill. And what's the ministry's job is to better protect our domestic producers so that situations don't happen like you yourself witnessed where people in despair actually destroyed potatoes to sell, especially at some decent price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60749	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60750	... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60751	Mr. Kolarek, just press this. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60752	After completing the draft law from the first reading, you yourself have indicated what other things should be applied and we will submit the same amendment. Do you think this kind of ultimate seed law will still protect small producers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60753	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60754	Thank you very much. I hope most of it will. I say there are controversial items related to the number of hectares, and there we will look for safe amendments to improve in this sense the protection of small producers. However, what I haven't even been able to say is that, here, Article 5 of Article 12, we actually define the need to buy machines for processing and registering registration of registration suppliers, which I'm afraid may be additional costs for small producers. So what's most of it is going to be an improved version compared to the first version, but there's still that extra space, so here's the amendment and hopefully you'll appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60755	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60756	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs, I think that this final bill should be fair and regardless of all the differences that come from the nature of political work, say that in the end we have a good draft in front of us which is the result of both a political dialogue and a dialogue with the professional public, with the non-governmental sector, with agricultural producers. Some might want the law to be ideal, but I think we're all aware that we as humans are not ideal and that maybe we can talk here about some ideals that we would like to achieve with the law, but the question is how it would work in implementation. That is why it seeks to hear the arguments and reach some kind of compromise when the final draft of the law comes. And that's exactly where I see it, so these two items that are being discussed most of the time today, and too little is being talked about all the good that's been dealt with by law are the items that I assume are the result of the compromise of what the European directive is giving us as a framework, because the new one is still in force. As a result, different Member States have different experiences. The structure of our agricultural production, because if I am not mistaken when we listened to Mr Pilk's presentation on behalf of the European Commission, which was referring to the National Strategic Plan and the position of Croatian agriculture, then it was said that around 70% of our economies were actually below 10 hectares. So, when we take all this into account, then I think that these solutions that have been offered should satisfy both small producers and large ones in one balance, and what is most important is that the seeds we inherited from our grandparents should not go through all those finishing and certification procedures if they are used for their own needs. And that should be made clear once again and underline here, because I see that those who have convinced you otherwise today have no discussion at all about this final draft of the law, which only says that they themselves have seen that in the messages that the public feared were unbeliefable, because here we have clearly communicated in front of the Committee on Agriculture but also as representatives that they would never raise their hands for such a similar provision. How important is the seed I would like to illustrate to you on an example. I had opportunities in Brussels to participate in activities that we had to prove at European level in the process of protecting the Varazdin's wish that the Varazdin's wish was Croatian. I know that it may sound absurd to someone, but in these protection processes, you often find that some Member States have made instructions to object and the Brussels administration only took two years after a series of our arguments that we have submitted to reject these objections and that at the end of the day, what I think is clear and visible from the plane that Varazdin is in Croatia and that Varazdin's wish is Croatian. But it's not an isolated case that we've met with, but that case tells us a lot about how important it really is to have an indigenous seed, how important it is to keep it, how important it is to know its origin because it's part of our identity, and therefore we don't care who owns it. I know that the producers then said when we finally succeeded in this long-term process that we were able to protect the insurgencies of their grandparents, that we were able to protect their blisters, but also the blisters of their children, that it was very important to know and prove from where each seed comes from, and that this protection of originality is something that we admire at the highest level. And it's not an accident because the seed is the source of life, the seed is important to us in the production of food. It must be part of our strategic thinking about the future of agriculture, and I think we really need to pay more attention to the production of domestic Croatian quality seed. The increase in processed production surfaces also increases the need for larger amounts of seeds and fruit material. Although we have a long tradition of seminary in Croatia, then there is still a fall, and in this sense we need to make a step. What is good and what we see is the growing interest of small OPGs to preserve genetic resources, or domestic cultivators of vegetable cultures, and this resulted in the entry of these varieties on the variety list and further production of seeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60757	Thank you. You have several replicas. The first line was sought by Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60758	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Petir, here as chairman of the Agriculture Committee, I would say I may not say the best but you are very well directed to what we are discussing today when we take an analysis of that first reading from March this year. And today, you've put a lot of personal effort into the Committee's presidency, including the entire committee. I must commend the rest of my colleagues from the Committee. How pleased are you now really with what we have in our final bill of law compared to what was proposed in the first reading?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60759	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60760	Thank you very much, Agent Ivanovic and you and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture for one constructive and correct cooperation. Because here's what I hope is true in other committees, but we're trying to find solutions in a dialogueal tone, and when we oppose attitudes, it's always in the best interest to come to a better outcome for our farmers. I think we have succeeded here in achieving what we wanted, which is to distinguish the rights and obligations of small producers who use seed for their own needs from those big ones, that we have managed to reduce the burden on agricultural producers, to try to influence the increase of areas under seed production, but not to disrupt the quality and health of seed material. Of course, a lot of efforts have been made to protect indigenous varieties of seeds and to work with organisations on the ground and associations and individuals who care about how to enroll this seed on varieties lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60761	Thank you. Mr. Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60762	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Petir, we recently stayed in Slovenia together with the board, the entire committee and the Committee of the Republic of Slovenia, and there was a guest director of the Agricultural Institute in Osijek who gave one piece of information that surprised me that the Agricultural Institute Osijek at the seminary production made revenue of around 10 million kuna. Do you consider the seeds of corn, wheat, barley and all that they produce and place on the market to be of quality?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60763	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60764	Thank you very much, Mr. Kolarek. So, I'm certainly not an expert on this, there are expert bodies that evaluate it, which claim that the seeds that put our domestic Croatian seminaries on the market are of exceptional quality. That's what they're talking about after all and offerings. What should be taken into account is the fact that we have a decline in the production of grain seeds, corn. We have an increase in the production of soybean seeds, which is very good, and I'm going to say that one more time. I think it's also very important that the state takes measures when it comes to the soybean without genetically modified organisms support its production and certification, and this has proved to be a good thing, because we have greater yields and greater demand for this GMO free soybeans that have become our brand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60765	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60766	Honorable MPs, you're being referred to in matters related to agriculture. You were also in Brussels on the subject, so I would like to ask you an explanation, that is, to give me your comment. It's just that if we look at how many surfaces in the Republic of Croatia have been processed in percentages compared to, say, 1992, then we see that it's about '92. The year was anywhere near 22%, and now it's all about 15%. So the area we're processing is getting smaller and smaller. Last year was more, let's say it was 2015. That was even less. On the one hand, it's a good thing we made the distinctions between big and small manufacturers. We know who can shine and what the rules of the game are, etc. etc. However, we are being sown less and less, and in 2023, we are running out of that law and after that we will be able to sell land to foreigners, agricultural land. What do we have left?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60767	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60768	Thank you, dear colleague Pavic. I don't think the results of the latest list of agriculture conducted by the State Statistics Office over the last year are yet unknown, it'll be at the end of this year, so then we'll be working on the exact data. I wouldn't give, I wouldn't dare give any flat-rates. We note the increase in the production of certain cultures, especially when we talk about cereals and wheat and soy and corn and sunflowers were also referred to by agriculture analysts who are not prone to this government very often criticise the government. So in that sense, I wouldn't underestimate the efforts that are being made. Of course we need to be even better, that we need to invest more in our productivity and competitiveness. It is important, as we have already told the support system many times, to make it transparent and fair if we can say so, and I believe that through the Law on Agricultural Land that is just following us in the debate and through the Strategy of Agriculture We will also establish these strategic priorities on which Croatian agriculture must rest. [[Thank you. Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60769	Thank you. And the last one, no, you don't have another one. Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60770	Here's my colleague, Petir, you said on two occasions that there was an increase in the production of wheat and corn. Do you know how much wheat and corn are produced today and how much is produced compared to, say, 1985?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60771	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60772	Thank you, colleague Peovic. Yeah, there's been an increase. It was published by the State Statistics Institute at the beginning of this year compared to the previous year. He also announced to you, therefore, a team of experts who analyze agricultural opportunities. That's what all the data is about. That's also the fact that we've exported grains this year that simply this production is on the rise. That doesn't mean we don't have to work on a different structure of production. This year it has proved that such a focus towards, if we can say, such simple productions although for those who produce it is certainly not simply needed to be restructured for the future, that we need to produce more value-added products. But given the crisis on the market, the inflation that happened, all the rest of those warlords who were just these cultures you mentioned produced actually made a very good price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60773	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. Mrs. Romana Nikolic is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60774	I would like to thank Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The interest in this law in first reading has raised great interest and can freely say “who would say miracles to happen? ” The ministry has answered requests from small farmers and also accepted some of our proposals and included it in the final draft of the law. For example, the processing of seeds from the agricultural holding is limited to adhesion grains, olives and adhesion plants, and only for producers whose total production area of certain groups of plants is greater than 7 hectares. It is now clearly defined parameters for the assessment of a smaller economy, i.e. economies that process up to 7 hectares of surface area. According to the above, the seeds of vegetables, potatoes as well as organic seed and local populations and varieties are excluded for the benefit of small producers. All those who not only protect our biodiversity, traditional farming, old varieties and rural areas of Croatia are protected. And why is this important to emphasize? The proposal for a law in first reading did not protect the interest of small OPGs and producers, but neither do consumers who want to eat healthy, domestic and environmentally-produced vegetables. We all agree that some rules must be made, but she talks with seeds and certification was not good for Croatian agriculture. The production of seeds is not disputed if the production of seed is subject to the obligation of that agricultural producer to place the seed goods on the market. But it is not fair to additionally burden smaller agricultural producers who use their seeds for their own purposes. Large producers will not have a problem with doping because of the infrastructure and logistics they already possess. Orders will also be introduced to control and prevent innovative species. After a heated debate in the public after pressure from the public of small and medium-sized OPGs, various associations and respecting the same about this topic, this final bill has been drawn up in a way that the rights of small ones are not yet depreciated and that diseases in our fields are prevented along the way. The existing diversity of agricultural cultures is irreplaceable for the purposes of food production and makes for the wealth and heritage of each country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60775	Thank you very much. You're done. Thank you. Mr. Niksha Vukas is up now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60776	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State with an associate. I'm going to turn this debate a little differently because I see that more or less colleagues have said all these numbers of 92 tons, 7 acres. But what am I going back to? I will return that in the spring we discussed this bill was not a minister, but a secretary of state and you defended the bill as if it were the best proposal you've ever made. With all the problems in Croatian agriculture, you've caught up yet to impose on small OPGs and suppliers, and what is visible? It's visible when you get 466 comments on the bill that something's wrong. I attended the round table were other colleagues from the "Seme is our human right" initiative, and when I saw those little OPGs who came together professionally and qualitatively made themselves or in some way split up that bill of yours and did research among the little OPGs was and the ministry representative would deny me if I said something wrong, where it was simply a series of things that was not good. And when that lady on the Round Table from Međimurje said that it was about the manufacture of potatoes that was simply inconclusive that you are now in the new bill, I welcome that, you removed it. My question today is why did you go with this bill and what, in the third month of the marriage, you were advocating it more or less when you had a discussion that came from the professional public and the OPGs and all those who were interested in it in some way accepted almost all of these people's proposals that actually deal with this production and live on other than two things that are illogical to me? It is no problem for me to commend when in some ways you accept that you have wrongly done that 1. The bill of law and that you've been using yourself, but I just want to know why you're doing it. Why didn't you do that study before these people, pay this research to see exactly your bill proposal, which included a targeted group of producers, in which percentage and what is wrong with this bill? What I'd like to ask you now is that I wasn't at first. I still have a dispute today with those seven acres, so I'm looking for an answer on how you got to seven acres. What was your parameter? And how are you going to defend those seven acres of grain, herb, industrial? And I disputed this article in 88 that someone who was enrolled you gave him until 30 June 22nd to re-enter. If he doesn't sign up, you'll delete him. Is it possible that you have a problem with your database that you didn't do all this well or that every draft of the law you go to our administration that's going to get on the nerves of these little OPGs and, in general, farmers and you're still going to give them some torture that they have to re-enter even though they've been enrolled? It's kind of contradictory to me. So you're signed up, but if you don't sign up again, we'll wipe you out. And what I would like to stress is that of all the problems in agriculture from the apparent collection of agricultural products, meat collection and everything that comes to us now, we have been dealing with the law on something that you shouldn't have brought. And now, in the end, I think when all this is looked at together, I think we should consider these seven acres more, talk to small producers to see if there's any other way to make it better. And this article 88, please make an explanation because it doesn't make sense to me if someone is listed that you gave him until June 30 and that you will delete it if he doesn't sign up again. What is important is that you would appeal to the ministry that in the future, when you are making bill proposals, do not allow yourself to have 466 comments on the bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60777	Thank you. Replica Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60778	Your Honor, this is your profession, so I'm going to ask you a question about the import of food products. It is that as far as we know last year, more than 50% of food products were imported into Croatia. At the same time, from 2014 to 2020, we lost about... The residents who moved out, most of them from Slavonia. [[You don't understand.]] At the same time, about 400,000 hectares of raw agricultural land were identified last year. One part of that surface may not be processed and therefore should be further invested in that area. But if we take that area of 400,000 hectares, it turns out that we can feed 11 million people on those surfaces. So, only on what we haven't processed can we feed 11 million people, and we are currently importing over 50% of food products. I ask you what will happen in 2023 when we start selling that agricultural land to foreigners who already and now have no obligation to sow what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60779	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60780	First of all, as soon as you don't produce something, you are forced to import what needs to be said that our country and the ministry did not make sure that our agricultural producers have conditions for production. And I can't even give the logic today that our Slavons can't produce pig meat cheaper than we have to import a huge percentage of pig meat from the outside. And these are the topics we need to discuss. It just doesn't make any sense. I can't find that expert who can sort of justify it. Therefore, when we import pork, and we know where we live and what we can produce, something is wrong. And as for the very purchase of agricultural land from foreigners, you see what happened to us in tourism, in the hotel industry that more or less everything went into foreign hands. That's how agricultural production's gonna go, and our production's down because our people moved out. If it was good, we wouldn't have moved out. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60781	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60782	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As I said in the introduction, the first reading is somehow more interesting in this House than in the second reading, and in fact, in most laws, when the first reading, more parliamentary representatives are interested in the debate, more involved in the debate, and somehow in the second reading, we are much less here in the assembly. That's what we had last week when we had two important copyright laws and electronic media that practically there was no one in the assembly. It is the decision of every parliamentary representative who will listen, what he will not and will participate in. But I also believe that as a parliamentary representative and as a member of the home Committee on Agriculture, I have the opportunity to say a few words about this final proposal of the Seed Act. And as I was in the introduction and said to commend the home Committee on Agriculture absolutely, all the members of the Committee on Agriculture. Of course, the great engagement and Minister Vukkovic who gave herself the effort and indeed these three, four months as long as it was from the first reading to the second with all the players who were significantly involved in this story conducted a broad debate at one I would say scientific level. And we came up with a proposal that's good for me. It solves absolutely all problems in Croatian agriculture, it should not be fooled. And finally, when agriculture is viewed as something final seed is just one of the segments that is important for the final calculation of the whole story. I'm sure that in the coming years we'll have more problems with global warming than this moment is this dispute over indigenous seed varieties. After all, we only understand each other about one thing. If we had stayed on some indigenous varieties that were shining 40 and 50 years ago, the question of how would these varieties behave today under today's climate conditions. Just one piece of information, the difference between the 60s of the last century and so far is about a hundred liters of rain less in months when we have from seed to harvest. And the temperature difference is about two degrees higher now than it was in the '60s. Two degrees might not mean much to someone like this, but when you look at global warming, two degrees is extremely much. It's the upper limit when it's offered and everything else counts under those parameters. I therefore welcome, of course, all the people involved in this debate. I think we made the most of what we could do. Here's the chairman of the parent committee, Mariana Petir, she really gave herself up, and we wanted to go on hand. These are our people, these are our producers who live, work and operate in Croatia. And it would be really crazy to pass a law that doesn't go hand in hand to those people. So why do we need a law that doesn't go hand in hand to those people, especially I agree that Mr. Lenart won't agree with everything I'm saying, because he's involved in that production himself. But when we talk potato manufacturers about which there was a lot of debate in the first reading that they wouldn't have anywhere to confirm their seeds, that they wouldn't have any place to take it or there'd be a lot more expensive costs if they drove it to the Institute in Osijek. Here today these potato manufacturers have their own fruit material that will continue to plant. That's the way it is with the producers of wishes. I think that's good. That it's ideal that's said here and the president probably isn't like nothing is ideal in this world. But to make an effort, to listen to it all, I think it makes one progress in relation to what we may have had so far at least as a representative who sits here for a year and a little more days. I see that there is desire and will and parliamentary representatives, and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, resolute ministries that the laws we adopt in this Croatian Assembly go hand in hand and in favour of the people for which we bring them. I think that's good. But I'm going to conclude with that again. Much bigger problems will await us with global warming that will certainly leave us with great consequences if we do not prepare in time and do not take this problem seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60783	Thank you. A few replicas. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60784	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Ivanovic. Here's the fact that this bill between these two readings can practically be said well-broken and that we don't have any more serious objections now, against this bill. That is why it happens to us that individuals bring up certain things to say so we are looking for hair in the egg" now. Well, just before we heard the fact that in 92 there was much more processed agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia than there is today. I really don't understand how this is possible, since at the time 1/3 of Croatia was occupied and it was mostly rural areas. We know that only tanks were plowed there and I'm really interested, you're from Slavonia to tell us the actual state of processing of agricultural areas and agriculture in Slavonia if there are any unprocessed areas larger, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60785	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60786	Thank you very much. Yeah, statistics, and I'm not going to do that again, which means statistics. But he did say statistics that in 93, there were 1.7 million acres of farmland. Today we have about a million and 500 grand, which is going to say it's less. But let's let it go now. It's not that. We have to calculate that in almost 30 years we have turned a large part of the agricultural land into economic zones, and turned it into building land. Those aren't tiny surfaces. And the second part of which we have many of course and Croatian forests have taken some of the land that has grown into some kind of sprat and so on. However, this statistical data is not crucial for the calculation. I repeat again, we do not have to today less countries than Croatia with much less hectares, one Israel has 700 thousand hectares of arable land, we are talking about what can improve Croatian agriculture is important. I think that we with the number of hectares that we have, and it can be somewhere when we bring the Law on Land, I hope that it will be about somewhere at 2 million hectares we can feed all of Croatia and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60787	Thank you. Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60788	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, we have all agreed here that the law has been improved, that the bill has been improved, that the comments and proposals and the professional public have been accepted, and the OPGs, even the opposition. Well, here's what I'm curious about. I would like to invite you, it is even more necessary to make this law even better, so the remarks come from the "Seme is our human right" initiative we have Mr. Leonard who really knows and knows. So it seems to me that this law is so important that if we are primarily like the rulings, you have both had the strength and the brains to make this law so much better why don't you just do it a little bit more so that the amendments can come to something that will be an even wider circle of farmers satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60789	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60790	I'm really not a prophet and I wouldn't deal with it. But I think that by the time we vote, we will have one or two more things that will significantly improve this law to the benefit of those whose purpose it is to bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60791	Mr. Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60792	Mr. Ivanovic you are, coming from Slavonia and surely you are in contact with people, talking. So I'm interested in your opinion as a parliamentary representative after the first reading proposal that yours have been told to you, who elected you to the Parliament in particular, which are related to the agriculture sector? Because when you get 466 complaints about the bill's proposal with all the problems, and you know well in Slavonia what problems we have in Croatian agriculture that we have been mingling on the bill's proposal since 3 months and that's the problem. There's a problem that it shouldn't have gone in this direction, because we have much more important topics in agriculture, but that we have from 3 months to now, the promoter has accepted more or less everything. But for what reason? Because the O.P.G.'s are up, because the O.P.G.'s are up. Let's stop it. Well, aren't the people at the Ministry paid to make a bill that's going to get 500 complaints, but to do the best thing for who? So for the people who elected you to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60793	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60794	Thank you. I think it's good that the general public is involved in the adoption of every law, especially those to which the law applies. Knowing people on the ground and from his experience here's something he talked about, and Mr. Shashin, you know that's a double. You have people who will say that certified seed for them is the only thing they want and what they want to deal with in their lives, they're not interested in anything else at all. But we have these little ones and they need to be taken care of, and I absolutely agree with that, and I think it's never too late to bring something that's better than the previous one, but let it last for a month, and two, or three, or five longer, but now it's seen here and here in this debate and through all of what we're saying here is going to be one larger number, if not all of them, but at least that most of them will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60795	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60796	Well, I'll repeat my question. When you say the same thing, it's all wonderful and wonderful and that we're... New hybrids, so come on, it's less hectare, but that's because we turned agricultural land into building land. [[You don't understand.]] I'd say forest land before how he threw out a colleague of Leonard's. But okay, if you say everything is so wonderful, do you know the answer to the question that your colleague Petyr skipped? How much today do we produce wheat and corn compared to 85? Let's not go to 85, stay for 2000, do you know that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60797	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60798	I don't know the data in millions of tons, but I know it was bigger than it was now. But we can't just look at it through that statistic. And the market regulates something. At the end of those years, there were probably a little more surfaces that were arable than what we're talking about today. But the food market is changing. You don't always sow the same amount of grain, barley, corn. The farmers are calculating today. Today, corn may be more lucrative than wheat. Today, the oily tail may be much more lucrative than any other culture, and the soybean that proved to be practically twice as expensive this year as it was last year. So, I don't think those quantities are that important. Croatia has enough grain for its own consumption, it is not controversial. It's a dispute to settle these other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60799	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Ivanovic about the impact of climate change on agricultural production and how important it is to look at and appreciate the adaptation of agricultural production, so you have now touched these replicas again. And that's why they're important because these domestic cultivators who are actually capable in this climate and on these climate conditions give the best offerings. That is why I think it is very important that through the measures to be taken we encourage domestic production of Croatian seeds, because I think we also have a good profession and science that can give a good answer there. But also that those valuable guardians of our indigenous seed especially when we talk about old fruit varieties and when we talk about vegetables and we all remember the taste of our grandmother's tomatoes to reward their seed preservation in the right way, help them to enroll in national varieties and to preserve that seed for future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60801	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60802	Absolutely! I think it's us that's Croatia if it doesn't have its own indigenous varieties, and we certainly have them that are even better than some of the others we've been importing for years. So, yes, but I'm going back to this part. The Institute in Osijek, the Institute here in Zagreb will be crucial to the battle we must win with global warming. I think that the most we have to work on, because I'm afraid that some of the varieties that we know today are well-produced and bring in maybe in five or ten years they'll simply be unusable, because they won't fit the climate and climate that's come and that's changed significantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60803	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60804	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Have you heard of wheat harvesting this summer that someone mentioned the smell of wheat? I'm not. And this year there was a farm seed, no less or less than in previous years, and it will be used in the future in spite of this law. What confused me here today is different opinions that have formed. Today we discussed this issue on the Committee on Agriculture, and we concluded that by each plant species mentioned here, it is 37 ha. In the end, the minister said no, but a total of 7 hectares. What am I saying? So the people mentioned here are academic citizens, and it wasn't easy for us to understand what was written in that article of the law. How will the farmers understand that? I've proposed an amendment in which I simplify it, raise it to 10 acres. Read, see, and I think it's simpler and it helps manufacturers, and it's not going to do any significant harm to the developers, and it's not going to change anything, but it's going to give people the opportunity to take the seeds themselves. Because look today is such a condition that they value fertilisers, fuel, seed material, pesticides, agricultural land, spare parts of the sky. The barb that costs her three kunas yesterday costs five kunas. The building materials and the same are used in the estates, because the properties have to be repaired and renovated has gone from 100 to 300%. Mechanization, the price of machinery also flies to the sky both used machinery and new machinery. I have a tractor that I bought 10 years ago, it's worth as much today as it was 10 years ago. So inflation is present. And in what a peasant can only spare, it's fertilizer and seed material. You have to use pesticides because you can't fight the weeds differently. So you can only go here. If you start saving on this, you're reducing productivity. We have a case where a colleague sows a variety of soybeans, seeds, sorted, it's not. He sown his own kind that he left behind, the same sort that he is. It turned out that the one he left was more advanced, the better the set had and ultimately the better the income. So it's not that our people don't like to buy certified seeds, it's often that it makes us sometimes not even able to. But no peasant is stupid enough to sow bad seeds in order to have small income especially smaller economies that we're talking about here. 'Cause look, I'm working on 26 acres. I have to chase the yields, I don't have 100, 200, 300, 500 acres to live off my support. So it's my job to go after them with old machinery, because smaller economies don't often fit into funds, and it's very difficult to be competitive with others at all, especially with Western Europe. Croatia has far greater potential and production opportunities than we use, far greater. Unfortunately, this law will not harm that production so badly or reduce it so badly, but it will not help that production is progressing. Here were the questions parallel to the number of colleagues produced 10 years ago, 30 years ago, or I don't know how many. Machine technology, mechanics, bulbs, seed material means genetics has gone far. But we didn't go that far compared to that period of hectare and productivity. Let's try to pass this law as far as I'm concerned about agricultural production as the Slovenians told us the other day in their... The alliance when we were with the board there that for the bee, there was no left and right for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For me, there is neither agriculture nor left nor right but only agricultural production, the village and the progress of agricultural production. Because we need to be self-sufficient and have something to feed this people with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60805	You, too. Stay. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60806	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So you started your presentation again with what's going on throughout the debate, which is these famous 7 acres, or you tried to prove that 10 acres is something that's much more acceptable. But what's left unclear is you're obviously on the Committee on Agriculture getting one piece of information that how much culture is so many times seven acres, and the minister didn't say that. So what the president of the Committee would say anyway was that this debate was on the Committee so four cultures times seven is 28 hectares or 3 times 7 is 21 or already is. But here we did not through the debate a clear indication of the motionors got. But even now, at this point, it's less important what the Proposer is going to say. What is important is that the pronunciation of the law is clear and unequivocal. So I hope that your amendment will be accepted in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60807	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60808	Thank you. My colleague that I just made it simple and emphasized every plant-type 10 ha. If it were 7 hectares per plant species, it would even be acceptable, but 7 hectares for all three plant species is too small. Because look, we need to know what our family economies are. There are those small economies, there are economies up to the threshold of entering the income tax system and VAT. These are economies that are at the border whether they will fail or develop into more serious economies. Since they're limited to state agricultural land. Private agricultural land is becoming less and more expensive and is becoming more and more difficult with this liquidity of agricultural economies to expand the economy. Let's help them get at least those crumbs on that seed if they want to do their seed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60809	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Parliamentarian, so here I have the impression that here it is trying to mean that the aim of this law is perfectly clear to introduce order in seed production and distribution of seeds. Absolutely all of us are in favour of putting order into it. However, here from your discussion I conclude, we have the impression that they are trying to reduce the cost of agricultural production in a way that goes with cheap seeds, their own seeds, to reduce the amount of artificial fertilisers, to often use only sauces instead of nuts, etc. and thus achieve rentability in agricultural production. I don't think that's good at all. We need to think about increasing yields, income per unit of surface and thus making agriculture competitive and profitable. This way to go with the reduction as good as possible, leaves an impression of speculation especially when we consider that incentives go on the surface, not on the yield. I'm a little worried about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60811	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60812	Dear colleague Shashin, I'm afraid I have to tell you that you don't understand the subject I'm talking about. So there's a world-wide conservation soil treatment trend, and by now 50% of the soil is being treated not to use a plow. The plow's something that's slowly being thrown out, so the plow's getting smaller and smaller. It's more and more some kind of conservation treatment. You can turn your head, but get some information and read it, and you'll see what direction agriculture goes in. In my discussion, I stressed that this seed was not worse in this example than it was better than certified. I said in a previous discussion what I saw in the bag when I opened it. A certified seed that I paid 9 kuna per kilogram of soy, and inside rocks, soil, half-breeds. All at the expense of the manufacturer. So all we're talking about here is the manufacturer. Let's squeeze some decorators. We didn't do it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60813	Thank you. Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60814	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Lenart. You mentioned that the small OPGs and yours are too small to receive support or grants, and also that you are small and that you have to pursue the yield. I'm interested, you've actually mentioned that seeders seem to have tried to force these 18% or I don't know what that percentage is that did not buy their certified seed. And do you think this way with this law as it is now and with that mandatory dorado they will still be, I think you just mentioned that there will be a large number of small OPGs forced into that gray zone, that they are constantly guilty of something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60816	Dear colleague, you mentioned this in a gray zone. Unfortunately, the gray zone is in agriculture, always present in the OPGs, but not with their desire, but with someone putting them on, always someone sets up new obstacles for them to cope with. They'll manage in this case, and they won't take the seeds 100 percent. I've explained what the obligation is specifically on the soy you have to report. 50% of the difference will shine your seeds. That's how people work, they manage. You understand? That's what they're gonna do. But why are we driving them into the zone? Why don't we tell them? I'm not talking about industry, I'm not talking about big manufacturers working on a thousand acres. I'm not talking about Belje, Forte Novi who took the Croatian land. I'm not talking about people like that. They're industry. I'm talking about those who need to survive. I'm talking about the team. But unfortunately, no one's taking care of the team, because they're obviously a distraction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60817	You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Kolarek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60818	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, I express one great pleasure as a member of the Committee on Agriculture on one I will tell a healthy, quality discussion in this first reading and in this second reading. And what is important and important is to say in the adoption of this law as well as in each other, we will find it very difficult to satisfy all parties. It is important that this law regulates the production and placing on the markets and imports of agricultural and reproductive materials and plant species that will allow for the adoption of a national list of agricultural reproductive material which will be marketable only in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and which may certainly not be entirely but in one large part simplify the procedure and allow for the return to production and placing on the market of indigenous varieties stored in a plant gene bank. What is more important is that the concept of seeds from Croatian economies is proposed, where it should be kept in mind that it must be produced in a way that provides the agricultural producer with healthy proper seeds and seeds of known quality. But it is certain that you need to hear the profession, that you need to hear the producers. Because the use of uncertified seeds without any control is not a good example of agricultural practice and can cause great damage. This is an uncontrolled spread of diseases, weeds, harmful organisms, plants, and results in a significant reduction in yield per unit of surface. The proposal for this new law, as stated by experts, should introduce more order and application of the rules of the agronomic profession in seminary. I will also use the opinion of the Croatian Agronomic Society which says that small producers, economic producers of hobbyists, gardeners will not have any larger or new uses and restrictions in terms of producing their own seeds for their own purposes, and that products from indigenous and traditional varieties will still be able to be sold on our markets. The bill shows that small producers do not impose new restrictions, but enables them to expand their activity to one legal commercialisation of indigenous and traditional varieties. There was a change between the first and second reading. They have also shown in all the discussions progress and I believe that time will show that this law is a major step towards better, future, climate change, new mechanisms will surely require a change of this law. But I believe that our agricultural producers, especially here, are my Međimurci potato producers, will be very pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60819	Thank you. Stay. Mrs. Andreja Maric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60820	Thank you very much. Here's a esteemed colleague, you mentioned potatoes both now and before when we spoke when we set up the replica, we must say that in fact we Međimurci produce practically 70% of Croatian production, i.e. Croatian needs. However, I fear that this year we will be hungry not only in Croatia, but also in Europe. Rains, droughts have made their own, so that every incentive to our producers will be gold not only about potatoes but also about wheat. And we talked a lot about wheat, so I'd like to hear your comment. In fact, we often import wheat unquality compared to domestic production, and the pain of our domestic wheat production is that we have nowhere to store it. This is exactly where I found the invitation to collect wheat in Međimurje until August 15th to fill the silo capacity. What's the situation with us in Međimurje if you're talking to our producers and if we have uncoordinated wheat? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60821	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60822	Thank you, dear colleague Maric for asking. The fact that we miss storage spaces and I believe that by building a warehouse, storage areas not only for wheat but also for other agricultural products, we need not only in Međimurje but throughout Croatia I will say from Međimurje to Baranja to ensure one safety and of course I will say and raise the price at the end of the final product because we happen from year to year that the potato was at the end of the year as much as 60 lips. This year is the price or we won't have it. This one variation from extra weak to extra positive is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60823	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60824	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kolarek, you said in fact that through this final bill we achieved a balance and that compromise that was possible, and to the satisfaction and small farms that will still be able to sow seed without finishing, for our own needs, but also by keeping in mind the protection of seed from pests, from pests, from various diseases, which is also important for those great producers that they can do so, but not put too much burden on them. When you were talking about potatoes, I would just like to remind you that we on the board have responded to imbalances that were caused on the market due to the occurrence of Covid-19 disease which took the toll from both the potato producers and our incentive from the Ministry of Agriculture have gone with intervention measures where it has helped not only naturally potato manufacturers in Međimurje but throughout Croatia to overcome the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60825	Well, there she is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60826	Here, I have to give you my word. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60827	Thank you very much President, so here I think that soon there will be the opening of new storage spaces in Belica, so there were 12 large warehouses and it's good for potato manufacturers and they're satisfied. Unfortunately the year was dry, poor, but surely it's one security for the future that will prove... And of course what you pointed out is one committee work, work and collaboration with all segments that matter and factors that matter in lawmaking. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have seen today in another reading that there are different opinions among them, and that is very good to crystallize a law that will satisfy as much as it pleases.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60828	Thank you, no more, there is, Mrs. President. Ankica Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60829	Thank you. Comrade Kolarek, do you know how many EU countries allow the seed to be planted?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60830	And as far as I know...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60831	Here's your answer, Mr. Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60832	Thank you very much. As far as I know, in 10 EU countries, only seed certified is allowed, and we have introduced the term seed from the agricultural holding in this law and somehow protected our own, yet our own indigenous products. In some countries only the seed of certified products, seeds, is allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60833	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas, thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash is up to debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60834	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. In the second reading, a law that has already caused a lot of interest in the first reading, and the second reading has already led to changes that my predecessors and I have discussed. This law will in a certain way regulate and we must be fair and regulate the area of seed farming, regulate fundamental issues and regulate fundamental issues of production, marketing, importing agricultural reproductive material, recognition of varieties, way of entering agricultural plant varieties into varieties, maintenance of varieties of agricultural plants, and we will have certain legislative frameworks there to keep the whole area under control. But then now we have to get somehow to real life and the issues that are going on in real life, and there are the next ones, and that is, some experience of members of other countries, and we've still left that concept of seed from the agricultural holding against which we don't really have anything, I don't mind, but maybe it was a little bit different to define and I think that this self-sufficiency in food is extremely important and important. But my theme that I'm very happy to talk about is the topic of climate change. They're here for more dry days, because of higher temperatures, or because of more rainfall, things change. And what the Ministry of Agriculture must at some point recognize is that the moment has come and prepare itself for it. We're surprised every time, we're surprised that it's already summer, we're 1.10, and look at the temperature. Changes in the plant world are evident and will be and in this sense the ministry needs to be adapted, but what needs to be adapted is the changes that we see around us, which is the price of the elevator in the Croatian market is approximately kuna to two more than in neighbouring countries. And what the government should be asking at this point is why it is because the result will be, so all those who deal with agricultural production have their tractors going on, don't go on air. Therefore, all together and then at one point and this production and agricultural production will ultimately be more expensive. And that's what we need to keep an eye on, and our laws can't be such that we're actually through the laws imposing some new, unknown obligations and unknown imposes on our agriculture so far. This crown has actually shown all the disadvantages and shortcomings that we have and in agricultural production that starts with seeds and in agricultural production and has shown everything we should have, self-sufficiency. And we don't have it and the question is that we'll have it and when we have it, what we can have it in. So when we talk about agriculture, when we talk about the problem that we always need to go and see the laws can be written perfectly. We can all talk together about being great, that they're great, that they're super-made and everything, but these laws come the second day of application. When the second day of application comes, we need to see the circumstances. So this law, when it comes in and out, will be applied to someone who, in the meantime, has been accumulated by diesel, construction material if anything he wants to do has been collected, the seeds will be collected. What's the result of all this? Not to mention a workforce that doesn't have to be found elsewhere, and the question is how many can she find. So when you add up all of this A+B+C, it's obvious that there will be some stockpiles on the market, and that's the topic that I expect the government to, to deal with, to react, to see where we are, to see which direction we're going in. Unfortunately, we didn't get that answer. Otherwise, the minister does have a custom even to be at the debates, today she isn't because she did, and here I have to admit she made a certain effort to make all those remarks that we pointed out in this law and need to see a little more amendments, so I think we're going to get some decent law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60835	We have a replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60836	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. You cited a key problem and a key challenge for our government that the state should respond to all these climate change situations, we saw something I was talking about, and about the rain potatoes, the droughts made their own sure that the price rises in the autumn we'll be the potatoes hungry. On the other hand, you mentioned the rise in fuel prices, on the third hand, and we have already mentioned the problems of storage facilities. What do you think our government has any idea at all how to protect our entire society from these situations that on the one hand you have extra food that isn't paid enough, and on the other hand you have these situations that we actually lack certain cultures, and some of them because of the lack of capacity we have to throw away? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60837	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60838	Thank you very much. So we're on behalf of the clubs when we've been discussing and in an individual debate we have all relatively similar discussions because it's a similar problem, but if you get that in your afternoon debate in the Assembly, let's say the Minister of Resolution, it would be good to listen to real life because real life is exactly that. At this point, you have gatherings that go and at all, you have a disturbance on the world market, but such a disturbance with oil is not on the world market as it is in the Republic of Croatia and there is now a big question why it is so. You, when you have a fuel disturbance in the price of gas at the energy price you immediately have a disorder in all of this. Our government has that custom, it has two, it holds water until the masters leave or the moment something happens then reacts, but these are the things everyone discusses, these are the things our prime minister hears to discuss, but it's like it's happening to someone else. It's not happening, it's happening to us right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60839	Next is the individual debated representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60840	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As I used to stress in my discussions before, I have no problem with the fact that when something is done well and today related to the second reading of the Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants we can be satisfied because the government finally accepted the voice of the public, the voice of farmers, associations, OPGs, producers, the voice of opposition and ultimately the voice of consumers. Any citizen who does not want to forget the taste of domestic, real domestic products and who wants to consume homemade, healthy and environmentally-produced fruits and vegetables. It is good that the government, which in its first reading, found that this did not so, however, detect that the originally proposed draft law on the introduction of restrictions on the use of seeds used by farmers for its own purposes would be a restriction on producers who use domestic seeds in their holdings and for whom we warned that it would be completely unnecessary to be too hard on our farmers. I support that you have not allowed this and that you have amended such provisions because without such restrictions, we know what our farmers are facing and we know that it is not easy for them. It is also important for consumers to preserve seeds that offer us the taste of real homemade fruit and vegetables and to save themselves from the permanent disappearance of an indigenous variety such as the trogiar flower or the werewolf watermelon because it is our wealth and we like to praise our biodiversity and we like to boast a large number of varieties that we grow in our fields and it is important to retain. I therefore support the exemption from the obligation to certification and supplement seed for small holdings. It is necessary that small OPGs are exempt from the provision of a law relating to the production of seeds and placing on the market, so this version of the proposal is acceptable, with proposals for repair and space for the improvement of this law still being available. I'd like to highlight two things, and they're in art first. 17. where we are talking about who must process seeds in St. 3. we see that agricultural producers whose total production area does not exceed seven hectares, and here I really see that there is room for repair in the sense that we should have raised that line. Furthermore, I would like you to consider what I mentioned to the minister in the replica, and these are the proposed provisions of Art. 88. which states that legal and natural persons who do not submit an application by 30 June 2022 for enrolment in the registers of laboratory suppliers and samples of agricultural seed and fruit material will be deleted from those registers. I believe that the condition of re-proving the ability to register only further increases administration and procedures, which is again unnecessary. It is sufficient for the competent authorities to delete those powers if necessary from the register those who do not satisfy the conditions, and not for suppliers and extruders to go through the procedure once again which is a clean pile of administration. Finally, she mentioned our colleague on behalf of the SDP Club that, since Croatia's entry into the EU, agricultural production has fallen by 5 billion kuna, which speaks of a huge reduction in self-sufficiency and indeed this information needs to be an alarm and something that we need to give extra attention to because we see what is happening both in the world and in Europe, a shortage of large scales, and we can certainly provide ourselves with all the conditions that we have stability in the food sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60841	Next individual debate, respected representative Marin Piletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60842	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Along with the Adriatic Sea and Croatian forests, agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is definitely one of the greatest natural values. How we will deal with this means of life in support of this proposal of the Seed and Fruit Act. Why am I saying that? Quality seed and fruit material is one of the basic preconditions for successful and profitable farming, I repeat for successful and profitable farming. How important this is for the Republic of Croatia is also important for agricultural producers. Both the serious government and the Ministry of Agriculture who wants to contribute to the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, with all difficulties, is therefore proposing to this honorable home the adoption of such a law. With all our colleagues and colleagues listed by this law, imports of agricultural reproductive materials are regulated. My colleague Petir mentioned sovereignty in agricultural production, sovereignty starts from fruit material, and if we are to talk seriously about food production, then we need to know what seeds we sow and what we will get from it. Proposals of Art. 17th century 3. in the part where farmers are freed from the production of seeds of cereals, olives and beautiful plants below 7 hectares, therefore the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture in the discharge of small farmers from additional obligations are visible. We have also heard some figures, so 60,000 agricultural holdings will be released from the application of this article. It is important to stress that the minimum conditions for the registration are laid down, i.e. in order to be registered, therefore, the possession of minimum equipment for processing is necessary. Knowing that in the public space exactly the most controversy has caused therefore the obligation to complete seeds from the agricultural economy we see that the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has made additional efforts between the two readings. The opposition, who hasn't heard, told this speaker that this law is good, far from being better. I must express my satisfaction in simplifying the conditions for the registration of the production of vegetable seed exemption from official supervision. However, I also remind you of yesterday's action by the State Inspectorate, where it has established in the largest markets in the Republic of Croatia certain shortcomings, food maladministration, and therefore the invisible traceability of food on the market. We all aim at a minimum economic loss in agricultural production, so I repeat that we can achieve this among other things and use certified seeds and processed seeds of the agricultural holding, and that in the agricultural good therefore, indeed, because agricultural land is in the Republic of Croatia with legal solutions, we therefore bring more quality to this industry itself. This Government of the Republic of Croatia, if you exempt this law, has made significant steps for agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. I only remind you of the 2018 Agricultural Land Act. where we have finally abandoned resources, particularly state-owned, once again put JLS on the trust that they have state-owned agricultural land and that we provide our farmers with the necessary areas for larger agricultural production. And if you consider that we are also going to change that law because we have defined what the shortcomings are, then the proposal is already in the assembly and we can expect the adoption of a new Agricultural Land Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60843	We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60844	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Kolega Piletić, a quality seed and fruit material is one of the basic preconditions for successful agricultural production, and equally with the first link in food production, and this is exactly today and the agenda point, and you said a lot in your debate on this topic. But you are the man who comes from Slavonia, from the agricultural area, what I'm interested in is how much in the government and the Ministry of Agriculture has improved the conditions of agriculture with their legal proposals, and as head of local self-government through associations and cities you participate in counselling and good, and I'm curious how many suggestions the ministry has accepted in its e- Councils from proposals coming right off the ground?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60845	Thank you very much. So here, if we take into account only the latest proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, which was released in public consultation of the associations of cities, as well as the association of municipalities, as well as the county community, have sent their observations to the Ministry of Agriculture, I am pleased here to conclude that the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister Vukkovic, and therefore all the services of the Ministry of Agriculture have accepted these proposals, in particular regarding the technical shortcomings, or slowing down the processes of the allocation of state agricultural land. We have hundreds of thousands of hectares of state agricultural land that are not put into operation. Much of that is exactly state agricultural land. The reasons why these areas were therefore not processed, are not functional we heard today and here in the debate and therefore the consequences of the Homeland War, the abandoned state agricultural land, the reduction of the number of family farms that they want to deal with. But just like this, so by the partnership relationship that came from this law So we've come up with proposals for the ministry. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60846	The next replica honours MP Ankica Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60847	Thank you, Vice President. Kolega Piletić, this law provides for the adoption of national varieties lists and fruit material that will introduce old, local, traditional varieties on the market. Do you think that this will raise production to a higher level or whether we will get the added value of production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60848	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60849	So I personally consider the respected Zmajic MPs, but time will show what this law will bring. Of course, when it comes to traditional varieties that it is something that is definitely added value in agricultural production as well as a fund on the tourist market, what we can offer automatically, of course, that we can be much more expensive and chargeable. That's why it's important to regulate the seed market, especially indigenous varieties. And I think that this law that finally for the first time in the history of modern Croatia regulates the seed market is going towards that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60850	The next individual debate is a respected representative of Sinisha Yunkac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60851	Dear Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Minister, the State Secretary and Associates, I welcome you all very much. Here, we have before us the Seed Act and here is the interesting thing to hear some debates, especially by opposition, one would think that here we are passing a law on how to undo agricultural production when you're listening to some debates, but here's thank God it's not like that. Here, I'm also glad to hear that colleague Bilic of the SDP is talking about the fact that here's the law at the end of the line, so here's some debate we remember some other debates when this many amendments haven't been respected, and then the comments are next, here's the government doesn't want to respect any amendments, here's the government. The ministry has respected most of the amendments that have been proposed, so here again, the law the government has proposed is not good regardless of the wide debate. Here, I congratulate both the board presidents and I, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, can testify that there have been broad discussions and committee members, with all kinds of stakeholders, video conferences, etc., so that here are the congratulations to the Minister and Government, the ministry that most of the proposals so interested apartments have respected and introduced a second reading. And here I also thank the representatives of the SDP for eventually being a colleague of Bilic, who eventually praised this law. Well, here's the point of democracy to discuss something, although proposals, comments, criticisms are quality and positive, they are introduced into the law itself. And here's a quick one, although that was already said what this law is even talking about, which some of them have been very critical of. So the aim of the law is to regulate the production and placing of the market and imports of the seed itself, i.e. reproductive material. The certification means that rising quality means one form of quality system and that it is controlled in a controlled manner by that seed placed on the market itself. Alone, only certified seed ensures quality supply means quality seed supply and that we know its origin means its identity. All of this is prescribed by EU directives so we agree with the EU. So we have to have some seed registers so we can re-form and enroll in varieties. It means certain varieties and that we might be able to create sort lists. The aim is also to enable the identification of the varieties themselves and the recognition process of these varieties to be entered. Also, here it is brought and brought and brought, it is proposed to adopt a national programme to preserve indigenous varieties. Also, the term seed from agricultural holdings is introduced to preserve varieties and seeds used by our small OPGs. So these are all the activities that have been carried out and that this law sort of deals with and introduces one order into the market itself. Often as it has been mentioned to me in the agricultural production itself, intensive agricultural production we meet with bad seeds, we meet with unquality seeds. No intensive agricultural production, no quality intensive agricultural production and no quality seed there is nothing. We can and should support as counterpart Piletić said, preserving our identity, our seed, etc., but without some quality intensive production, without the good and quality institute that forms this seed, we do not have the right production that we can ultimately feed and our fellow citizens at the end of which we can then export. It is not true that we have a negative growth in agricultural production, however, reports that speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60852	We have a replica of the esteemed representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60853	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're a colleague. You're saying something that's definitely not true. No one by the opposition in this House has said that this law destroys agriculture, no one has said it. We have all spoken here we have just praised this process in the sense that remarks have been accepted, proposals have been accepted and we are calling only for this process to be brought to an end and for the current remarks on this second reading to allow the vast majority of farmers to work better. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60854	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60855	Well, I didn't say that someone said it, but listening to some debates can be concluded, and that can be witnessed by all those colleagues who have been listening to some debates, so now depends on how you're discussing it doesn't. And I am glad that you have praised the law and I am glad that you have supported it and that you will support it and that here is the law in itself quality. And so here's a lot of debates could be heard from this pay phone, and various replicas could be heard that suggest absolutely nothing is right. Now I don't know how you listen, but here's how I figured it out, so let me just say that this is how I interpret some discussions, and I think my colleagues on the right would agree with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60856	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60857	Dear fellow Yankee. Here's today's people here congratulated each other like that new year's brother... My views on which I am discussing do not form either the left or the right, formed by my professors in which I studied agrinomia, formed my 30s and more years of agriculture. I produce almost 300 tons of food on 26 acres of surface, I do wartime and vegetable production, I start from a zero of hectare and a half that I inherited from my father, I bought when it was the hardest thing in my life. I've lived out of five acres of land myself and my family and two little kids and I've been through all the stages. What I'm saying, and that's not a criticism, and if the criticism is positive, people are critically corrected if they have something in their head, and those who don't think it's bad. And I just said my point of view and what I think should help people who are in a phase that I may have been in 15 years ago. Let's help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60858	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60859	I don't know why you found yourself named because obviously I realized that you were called, so here I congratulate you on your resistance to investment and everything you've done in agriculture, and I'm sure you can say it on what you say you've experienced in your own skin. Here's what I'm saying. I don't know why you called yourself when I said that some people were extremely negatively critical. Here I wish you a lot of success in further work, normal and quality discussions both on board and in this assembly. It's democracy, and everyone can say what they think if they don't insult someone else, and here I support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60860	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60861	Here's an article. In 238, I know it's gonna be a warning, but I didn't find myself called just to tell my colleague Chicken, who's my friend, too, that I'm not going to drive a grain anymore and store at his place in Novska, but I'm going to find another silo since he throws it here in the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60862	Okay, as you said yourself, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. The next replica is Honored Representative Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60863	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Jenkac, here we come from the same Varazdin County, and I think our small economic OPGs will welcome what really made this concept of seed from the agricultural economy into that law, and the ministry has really taken care of everything both big and small. We cannot say that in order to be a quality law should be heard all and therefore we have first and second reading and I am glad that now in the second reading we are more or less all agreed and colleagues from the opposition that it was necessary. And the only thing we can't predict, which they'd probably want to do on this global warming, so let's say there's going to be a climate in the next two, three years as far as agricultural production is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60864	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60865	Here's a thank you, colleague Dreven Buddinski. So we come from Varazdin County, there is the most famous psychic wish and as far as I know, and I believe the Secretary of State can confirm they had no objection, and there are very well known manufacturers and seeds, and then the same desire that is sold throughout the Republic and exports outside the Republic of Croatia. Well normally on the mass of things, neither the government nor individuals have any influence, and here Europe was mentioned was also mentioned in the collection and fuel, so these days we can read in England, there's no one to bring fuel to the gas stations, so they don't have drivers, trucks, tanks that have ADE's laid down, so that's what it would be like to happen to us, revolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60866	And the last individual debate, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60867	We're not going to congratulate each other anymore. I think we've done enough congratulating ourselves. I'm going to refer a little bit to what was said to mean the opposition should now praise everything that comes from your side, I think I would warn that no amendment has ever been accepted, and I would have warned my colleague that you have not accepted the amendments as you have said, but you have accepted the suggestions and comments of the associations that they have made and I would have really emphasized here, an excellent move, excellent pressure and I would even now extend it to other laws and I must say that all the laws on work that do not have such strong, organised and really good pressure on the ruling that changes from the first to the second reading of those articles and would call on the trade unions to really look up to the associations that have put pressure here, good pressure that the government is changing it, but it was not accepting the amendments, so it was accepting the changes, the comments that came from the opposition under the means of the associations that have responded there. [[Intruder: D.]] And I certainly welcome that, but I think if you want someone to praise you all the time then you have to accept at least one amendment sometimes here and there that's really almost not happening. I think it's already critical. But as far as this law is concerned, we are also willing to vote for that law. A colleague, Lenart, has also made remarks that he has made in the form of amendments, and if you accept these amendments, we will vote in favour of that law. The Minister said that there are 7 hectares in Article 17(3) that define which exceptions are made out of the obligation to do the work are obvious, so you are so, that it is not obvious, about the apology, you said it is not obvious, well, but still the opposition seems to be ominous, so if you can accept that provision as well. Now, some of the representatives are farmers, and I think that and I think there's the biggest problem right, why not accept something if it's from opposition if it's clearly coming from associations and opposition, somehow when it comes from opposition then it won't be accepted, if it comes from associations from first to second reading is accepted, it seems to me that there's really no need not to accept this provision that everyone, which they all pointed out. But I would just use two minutes just to say something a little bit wider, which seems to me to have been left out in these exhibitions so far, and I've asked that question on two occasions and there was no answer, so I'm going to point out. Before the 1990s it was produced in all the basic categories of food products, I will now answer 50% more food, so in 1985 to 1990 a million thousand tons of wheat was produced. Before EU entry 2000 to 2013 Croatia produced 805,890 tonnes. After the entry into the EU 2013 to 2017 762,490 tonnes. So that's what's coming down. Corn, in these three periods it means '85. '90s. The second and before joining the EU in 2000 to 2003, after joining the EU, two million 283 thousand tonnes were produced, and then one million 808,404 tonnes, and then one million 867.557 tonnes. It is similar with livestock, in all meanings of grain and livestock categories we produce twice as much as we produced in '85, twice as much, and therefore in all other categories. So we have to admit that what we're seeing here is that we're actually producing less and less. And I'd just like to, well, I don't have much time yet, but I just wanted to say one more thing about climate change. I don't think it's said enough here, but then I'm going to figure out why this law is important for the poorest, it's over 30% in rural areas because people are more literally eating themselves. So important was this law from that aspect of the social character of the law, not to mention the ecological and what is called food sovereignty because it depends on the import of seeds as well as everything else. The large cities have about 3 days of stock in large shopping centers, so we've come down to food imports, and our own producers don't, we don't really encourage or support it. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60868	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Marija Vučković.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60869	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like first of all to thank everyone for the debate, for the proposals that have arrived today, either before or during the first reading, at committee meetings and between sessions. I would also like to point out here clearly that this Ministry of Agriculture, although everything affects us, of course the volume of demands, that this Ministry of Agriculture is quite consistent and consistent in conducting dialogues with all documents. We personally responded to the first written request that arrived in the Office of the Ministry of Agriculture regarding the new Seed Act the same day and scheduled a meeting. It might have been better if it had been before I'd say the same, but I say here first that we reacted as soon as the written request arrived. I will also refer to the number of signatories of the appeal measured in tens of thousands, that it was indeed so and that it was significant and that no one should ignore it, but a large part of the people who signed it looked back on the thesis that was related to vegetables which was not in any version of the law at all was subject to regulation. However, it is also true that certain provisions should be developed in a nomotechnical sense. I am now not going to repeat what is done in detail by this law, so production, importing reproductive material, placing on the market are also all exceptions, all exceptions are now prescribed in more detail than the first reading, a number of remarks have been observed, and you have looked at what remains possible, I can't, I can't say openly, but the subject of debate and different opinions. So I will also say that this proposal by the Ministry of Agriculture is quite balanced after long-term and exhaustive dialogues and with representatives of civil society, but that we must not forget also the positions of scientific institutions, not only of the seed industries but also of Croatian scientific institutions and I have no reason, nor the right to doubt their honesty and their expertise in terms of the engagements that invest. The additional benefit from this dialogue is the fact that we have now included all of these representatives, or those who wanted to do so in a genuine and rather altruistic way of preserving Croatian traditional and indigenous varieties in a more serious way in the development of a national programme for the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources, that they are involved in the work of working groups, that participants of the national programme in a way they were not before. However, we should not ignore scientific institutions, nor should we ignore representatives of the seed and waste sector because without them, we cannot implement the concept of the field-to-table strategy, nor strengthen the food security of the Republic of Croatia. There are now certain views on self-sufficiency, related to the characteristics of agricultural production, and a brief review of what happened in 1990 and today. The statistics aren't exactly that, they're different, we have a number of positive indicators. There are also a number of wrong data that are repeated in the public, including here, and which are related to statistics from the 1990s, but we are not opening this debate today, so we will certainly look back when it comes to this, we will certainly look back when it comes to the proposal for a agriculture strategy for the period up to 2030. Finally, I want to thank everyone further for the suggestions, for the debate, and we will seriously consider the proposals that have been made in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60870	Here, we have two replicas, please remain Minister. The first is Anka, honorary representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60871	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, in our discussions, we were actually saying what you said in the final statement, that there were a series of remarks that were accepted, that we think it was a good thing that it was. So why were we saying that? We spoke because we rarely get a chance to really get a law where between the first and second readings the promoter did what you did, it's not exactly a custom. Well, since it's not the usual, then we refer to it. But my replica doesn't go that way. So, there's one thing left, a crumb of inexplicable, and it would be good if you could maybe come out and say it. And whether those 7 hectares that you have predicted apply to one culture or 7 hectares to the manufacturer and to all the cultures that it has to have on those 7 hectares. In that sense it was going, and as far as I've heard in the debate going and a few amendments, it goes from 7 to 10 acres, but at least let's get this dilemma straight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60872	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60873	Thank you very much for this question. Therefore, 7 hectares as a limit between the obligor and non-mandator of the process of finishing refers to the total areas on which 3 plant species are planted together, taking into account the characteristics of production, rules and conditions for obtaining support in nature, this represents significantly more in almost all producers in these sectors. I realize that this is confusing, and I'll be honest, so I'll say that I've been studying for a long time how those 7 acres in nature are 21, talking to my associates who are agrinomic professions, talking to representatives of institutes who have advocated a lower limit, and civil society associations for a higher limit, and we've set ourselves up for this border, given that in the end, there are 10 percent of the producers left in our coverage, and we think it's balanced, but we're going to come in, and we're going to consider the amendments that we're going to be able to interpret in a way that we're going to be able to interpret the provision. I'd like to add that, if someone has nine acres, then they're bound to areas above seven acres. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60874	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60875	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, from your present final presentation, you might get the impression that the scientific community is in that sense and the institutions are scientific, that they are completely unambiguous, but you know that there are, after all, scientific scientists who have also signed that initiative and in the tribune where you were not, you were prevented, but you were through zoom, you were, you know and there were scientists who didn't, and scientists who didn't agree exclusively with what they would call masterstream views. So there's a big part, I can say a big part, especially of this younger scientific community that supports the seed initiative is our human right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60876	Thank you very much. I have now referred to this one provision that has been discussed most today and, of course, when we talk about the views of the members of the commission, then I have to talk about the views of the institutions. But I personally accepted a meeting of scientists who shared different positions that did not share the views of the institutions involved in the work of the commission. I don't have anything to hide here and we've talked to many stakeholders, but we need to respect the official views of the association, as the institutions we appointed in the commission, that's why we've expanded the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-29-0.u60877	Thank you, Minister. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. on the agenda of the proposal for a referendum law, first reading, P.Z. No. 183. Have a nice rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 5:15 p.m.
