ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27222	Thank you very much, thank you. It is now up to Mr. Predrag Štromar to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues in recent days have been defending themselves with a number of topics but one seems to have passed somehow beneath the radar, which is introducing order into the higher school system. In fact, Croatia is raising the scale and this through the practical interpretation of the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Higher Educational Qualifications. From now on, the Agency for Science and Higher Education has every authority to verify the powers of diplomas acquired in other non-EU countries, and in Croatia, these are mainly diplomas we know themselves acquired in BiH and Serbia. It is also these diplomas and are often speculative and cause a question to the public and doubt their credibility. To have an objective reason, former Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak, who has had courage over the past two years and managed to carry out a check on all diplomas in the system of education and education. Nearly 70,000 diplomas and testimonies have been checked to clear the system of fraud and thus protect itself from students and parents themselves and, of course, all those valuable teachers. This process has identified 70 unworthy documents. At that time, as Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction, I myself requested a check of diplomas and testimonies in my portfolio. Fortunately, none of the spectral credentials in my vault were found. And thanks to the efforts of Minister Divjak, as well as the adoption of a new rules on verifying the value of diplomas acquired in non-EU countries, the education system has been cleared from frauds with fake diplomats. But that's still not enough. History has shown that the fight against corruption unfortunately never ends and that it must be stronger and more concrete. It is necessary to verify the system at all levels, or in all institutions where the state or local units are founders, in companies of the majority state ownership or ownership of units of local and regional self-government, a decisive verification of the credibility of the documents in the degree of education should be carried out. Institutions financed by taxpayers' money and which are obliged to provide citizens with the best service have the responsibility and obligation to introduce order into their systems, meet high quality standards and hire competent and professional staff. It is unacceptable for a teacher or professor with a valuable degree to wait at the employment office while his job is occupied by someone with an unworthy credential. Therefore, the verification of the authenticity of the certificate of educational qualifications must also become a legal obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27271	Mr. Domagoj Price will represent the position of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27272	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. If we look through history at the fact that major crises have led to rapid technological and social progress, one pan of crisis is the current epidemic of the coronary virus. This is exactly the event that has changed many established practices overnight in our society. Locking up the economy has led to a situation where a good share of employees are fully or partly working from home. Some branches such as catering, theatres, cinemas, gyms have been significantly affected independently by subsidies and aid from countries that have been known to be late, some other branches have continued to act relatively well and with the work of employees from home. This is due to the development of technology in recent decades that has made it possible to work from home on a computer. The work from home or location has not yet been regulated legally, although the current authority has announced that it will be. Such work has many advantages regardless of the epidemic. It enables flexibility that is needed in the fast world in which we live, can promote the creativity of employees and increase productivity that is always important for the employer. For Croatia, this is particularly important because we are a country that has lost one-sixth of the population in the last 30 years. In addition to eviction, we have more mortality than Natalie's. Exactly flexibility is needed by our fellow citizens in order to have a better distribution of time for the family, this could help the demographic recovery of our country. Employees work from home save time to arrive and go to the place of work. Because of productivity growth, some countries have already turned to working hours from 8 to 7 hours a day to resolve the unemployment issue. It also receives part-time work on importance. To work from home, we should regulate and address some of the following problems: make it possible for employers to pay non-taxable fees to cover the cost of work from home, for example the cost of Internet consumption, job management, higher directorship. Unfortunately, some employers who work from home during the epidemic did not pay compensation for transportation, and employees had more direct costs due to work from home. They should explicitly allow the employee to work part-time from home and part from the employer's space. They should ask whether flexibility should respect all the conditions as if a person is working at the workplace, ergonomic chair, work protection, equipment or rest that the employer is obliged to provide. Working from home was a form of work before the corporal crisis, with a lack of adequate legislative regulation and records, belonging to so-called ". The gray zone. The legislator should regulate as a special institute in labour law occasional work at home, without the need to conclude a contract on the work of specific content. The introduction of such an institute would allow employers to make their employees more satisfactory and productive. An employee would not bear any additional and unacceptable risks as staying at home would only agree to those exposed daily in his home environment. On the other hand, it would avoid the risk of travelling to the workplace and returning home which, with the costs of transport, takes time. In this way, it would help reduce the problem and traffic congestion. Let us hope that the current crisis will lead to innovation in working relationships that will have positive consequences for the economy, the standards of citizens and leave our fellow citizens for family life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27332	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will present the views of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27333	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues yesterday marked the National Day of Fight against peer violence. But yesterday in the city of Vukovar, we unfortunately had a conflict among peers, students of Nikola Tesla High School of Engineering. Unfortunately, this conflict also had a national omen. Unfortunately, it is nothing new that the students of this school have been conflicting for years, and always these conflicts have a national omen. But what are the causes of these conflicts, and where is the main cause of all this? Right here. It's right here in this assembly because right here, laws have been passed that have allowed the segregation of children in primary and secondary schools based on nationality. The Croatian Parliament has just passed the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, and the Croatian Parliament has just voted the state pedagogical standard of primary education and education system as well as the state pedagogical standard of secondary education. These standards in Articles 30 and 43 state that members of national minorities have the right to choose between 3 educational models. Model A according to which the entire course is performed in the language and letter of the national language with the compulsory learning of the Croatian language. Model B according to which teaching is performed bilingually by teaching natural groups in Croatian and social groups in the language of the national minority. And model C that enables teaching to be performed in Croatian with an additional 2 to 5 hours a week intended to cultivate the language and culture of the national minority. Unfortunately, in the area of the city of Vukovar, it is precisely the insistence of the political representatives of the SDSS and the DSS that members of the Serb national minority attend model A, the highest degree of separation of children and we have had the last 20 years of peaceful reintegration of 20 generations who are educated in the same city that live in parallel worlds, who live next to each other. Let's not talk about some co-existence because this is exactly why some real-life co-existence in the city of Vukovar doesn't exist. These same generations have a different view of the creation of the Croatian state. These same generations living in the same city have a different view of the Homeland War and a series of other things. And that's a fact. That should be plain and clear. And when we representatives of conservative or.../incomprehensible/... option we say that we should allow children to go together, that a model C is enough where members of national minorities will have an additional 2 to 5 hours of their own culture, their language and letters then representatives of the SDSS say so we are against it because we believe that our national minority will be assimilated. No, gentlemen, you do not want your national minority to integrate into Croatian society. And then we wonder why there's a conflict? So just when children come during puberty, when national feelings are more pronounced than in other stages of life then there are these conflicts because they are children living in the same city in different worlds. And therefore, we need to change these pedagogical national standards urgently, we need to allow representatives of national minorities to go together and attend primary and secondary school together with the majority Croatian people, and then we will not watch such scenes from Vukovar, conflicts among children, young people who unfortunately have national omens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27447	The next free position will be the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club and Mr Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27448	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Chairman, dear secretary, yesterday we had a whole line of poetry here, so here I would like to start with some old Slavonic songs. The text of one of them goes like this. Any sleeves, any cows, any gold and ducats under the penger song of the Vienna. How wonderful that sounds. Second, and in the fall, the boys got married, the girls got sown. These songs bring us back to a time between the two great world wars and tell us what life was like. So then we have the Slavonite, and the oxen, and the cows, and the gold, and the ducats, and the horses of the crows, and the horses of the iron, and the fine chariots, and the people's garments, bound with gold. It's been 100 years where is this Slavonite now? At the hotel reception in Ireland. His wife's probably in some local accounting, and the kids are crucified who knows where. Because of the disastrous policies, because of the anti-state I dare say the actions of import lobbys, because of the jag for short-term profits, we chose self-destruction in the long run. So how did we let them convince us to produce, especially in agriculture, it doesn't pay. To produce would say my Zagorci spider is not worth it. In large trade chains, 15 kuna pounds, so who can produce it in any reasonable way and bring it to the Croatian consumer. Go to any local butcher's shop in your area, ask the local butcher since he's a duck, 40 kuna steak. How is it possible it's in a big chain of 16.99? There's a serious scam somewhere. When you look at the time of the time for the islanders to cut sheep, then in Krk, according to Cres, after Pag, the huge bale of that rune flies around in the wind because it is not worth it to anyone. Imagine it doesn't pay to take the fleece off the sheep and make wool. That I think only managed to prove to us. About the production of sugar, here we have a nice kilo of Osijek sugar with a very significant name on it, it's called the 'Prime Minister', but that's where I'd stop. How we allowed the Croatian product to fail and the import product of questionable qualities and questionable sequences to come to the shelves of Croatian markets, and thus to the Croatian consumer and become part of our daily diet. What we learned yesterday is that out of the 7 controlled olive oils from Spain, as many as 6 fell on the test, and of the 10 controlled oils from Italy, so much. So, what we eat and what we import, and the domestic producer, of course, suffers if it doesn't. And I will end up with one terrible fact that is the product of these policies, ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian public we are facing demographic collapse. According to the latest data in the next five years, we will lose the city the size of Osijek. So please just imagine going from Kopacabana to Visnovec, so go from South I, South II to Catamama and other neighborhoods and there's no one. That's what's gonna happen to us in the next five years if we don't do something urgent. They say, there are opportunities, there should be incentives for Croatian emigrants to return to Croatia and I invite them, of course, come here if the sun is not there, etc., but what kind of sun will warm them here, that's what I'm asking you. We are importing labour, but rather not even this demographic pool of our region southeast does not want to come to work in Croatia. What do we do? I don't know either. We just know that this is the most important topic we have to sit around and we all agree on. It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It's not about the three monkeys. Three monkeys are not the main topic in Croatia. The main theme is, if these policies continue, we'll all feel a little bit like these respectable forest primates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27520	Thank you, too. Now it is Madam Mariana Puljak who will present the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. And I take advantage of the opportunity after Mrs. Puljak will be Mr. Marko Pavić and after that we will have an epidemiological break by 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27521	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, according to a survey published yesterday on a sample of 500 entrepreneurs, as many as 82.4% said they would not pay membership fees to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in case the obligation of forced payment was lifted. So only 17.6% would continue to pay. As regards the assessment of the quality of work, 77.4% of subjects were not at all satisfied or not satisfied with the HGK work, which suggests that the HGK would not have survived in this form if there was no mandatory membership fee. This research is important because it has proved what we have been warning about for a long time. Entrepreneurs who are members of this institution and finance it do not feel that it benefits them in business but serves themselves, a party who is in power to retain power and to use this institution to employ high-ranking and well-paid jobs. 86.8% of those who pay HGK's membership fee think membership should not be mandatory. Such a high percentage of dissatisfaction with the work of any institution in any system or state could not be tolerated unless the institution serves the ruling and not those financing it. Some of the key research findings. The main problem is the lack of understanding of the role and services of HGK, engagement does not recognise 2/3 of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have no contact with the Chamber of Commerce at all. 91% doesn't even know the name of the reference to whom to turn in the chamber at all, 87% of the people in the chamber never contacted, only 7% of the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs went to HGK. The reason for the address is to solve urgent problems that are not part of a business daily. Almost no one's talking to the chamber about improving the business of which there is an interest. The amount of membership fee itself is not perceived as a problem, however the key problem is the value of services if there is no relationship so any price is too high. In order to increase the value or justify the purpose of the HGK, it must increase the familiarity of services through interaction with entrepreneurs, primarily improve the understanding of business consulting and representation services and adapt services to the needs of activity. The Prime Minister accused us from opposition to destroying an institution like HGK with destructive proposals, although it is now quite clear that the institution has already collapsed on its own, that it has been torn down by a party that has led by its parapolitical influence for decades. This is best seen from the document on the Strategic Development of the Chamber of Commerce for the period 2017-2022 which is still in force from which it is apparent that no strategic objectives set before the Chamber of Commerce have been met and that the Government itself has minimized the role of the HGK by developing a whole series of parallel institutions that have assumed the role of HGK such as HAMAG-BIRCO. From this, we can conclude that the government itself has given up the declared objectives to be made by the Chamber of Commerce in order to become competitive. However, the defeating opinion of members and failure to meet strategic objectives is not enough for the government to make sharp cuts because they are not even targeted by the Chamber of Commerce for what should be done because it would violate the particular interests of those who have kidnapped the institution from their funding members. If more than 51% of users of any company or institution's services believed that the company did not receive any support, it would have collapsed very quickly on the market. Such unhealthy subjects fail everywhere except in a country that in an artificial way protects and maintains a system in which citizens do not trust. If such a system does not change, the great dissatisfaction of citizens and mistrust in institutions threatens to turn into serious problems that will cause social breakdown. Therefore, we cannot sit quietly and watch the institutions collapse one by one around us. We're looking for quick and effective changes now and now, not in a few months, and maybe that's how the Prime Minister told us. Also, the situation with the Croatian Chamber of crafts, which we will discuss later today, is not much different, although we do not have research to support the claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27619	Thank you, too. And finally, Mr. Marko Pavić will present the position of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27620	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. My presentation today was also encouraged by the announcement of a press conference by Mrs. Mrak Anka Taritash, which was not held today, concerning the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Today the information coming out of the opposition creates an adjudication, talking about some joke about paying off the lucky one to win the lottery, the government of Andrej Plenkovic is a little more serious than that gambling approach to the opposition. We know how they acted when they were in opposition. The government of Andrej Plenkovic brought 24.2 billion euros to Croatia, the past government of the SDP government lost a billion euros that we could today give either for the reconstruction of Banovina, or for our entrepreneurs in the crisis. How are those gambling players playing lottery is it obvious they just know how to do it? So in the regulation that defined this programming period, it is clear that the countries that entered the EU before 2013, and had a crisis and a GDP decline of more than 10%, that they could get more than a certain percentage if they could get 10% of the budget add-on. No one is... in Brussels and the only country to enter 2013. Croatia should move to another date and Croatia should enter that group of countries. So then apparently the last government had that lot, gambling, they didn't pay for the ticket, they didn't get it. This government does not pay lucky, does not play lottery, works continuously for Croatian citizens in Brussels and it is seen through the result of 24.2 billion euros. There is also a framework in the opposition that we are constantly late. Here I am while I was in the government of the regional minister co-ordinated the preparation where several ministries were involved applying for the Fund of Solidarity for the recovery of the Zagreb earthquake, I also received a record of 683m euros and nothing from the opposition. Now also around the National Recovery Plan, there's a fam that we're going to be late. We're not gonna be late. All countries will submit a joint 30th April to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, as co-ordinated and agreed. The first draft the prime minister held here and in the assembly was sent at 12 months to agree with colleagues in the European Commission. Therefore, the document is being handled and this document will generate out of these 24.2 billion euros a way of spending almost 10 of which over six of them are irrevocable and again sees the Devil of HDZ The government of Andrej Plenkovic received the largest share when we look at the GDP of 11% of the grants we received and we are the first in the EU from the national recovery plan. In parallel with this, a multi-annual financial framework is being prepared. Then it was the same. We don't have any projects. You don't know that, there are no projects. So on January 26th, the EU Commission approved 2.9 billion euros for a battery development programme within which 100 million for the Centre of Excellence in St. Sunday, Mr. Rimce. So when we don't have projects, we don't know, and somehow we fill everything in time, planically, professionally and the government in Brussels, manage to fight for our national interests, which some other governments, by their ignorance, by their gambling, by paying off the fortunes they didn't get, they didn't know how to fight. Once again, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, this position does not play the lottery, does not pay the lucky ones, is constantly working to improve Croatian citizens, we have reached 24.2 billion euros, the prime minister has brought to Croatia record, in time there will be a national recovery plan, and when we hand it over in time, we do not know what the opposition will continue to whine about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27621	Thank you, too. Now break up to 14 o'clock with a winding of the assembly and a continuance at 2 o'clock. It's 13:45. Mr Ante Kujundzic will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27690	Thank you, Mr. Radin. Mr. Bukaric's esteemed secretary, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The most frequently quoted work in this House is that of Eric Arthur Blair, all of us better known as George Orwell, and it is about his "Life Farm" in principle of an allegory political novel that speaks of corruption of ideals. So the "animal Farm" run by and run by the constantly drunk Mr. Johns, and the half-white boar named Old Major leads the animals and keeps opening their eyes to Mr. Johns as a man of exploiter and torturer. The old Major thought that when the animals took over the farm would be different from the people and the rule would be that all animals were equal, regardless of the strength and intelligence of each individual. After he died, the animals drove Mr. Johns off the farm and took over the farm. Very quickly within the animals of the smart pig farm, they took the matter into their own hands by turning their leading status into one form of dictatorship and by justifying their power to a many times quoted password, “All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others. ” Velimir B. A 56-year-old who was sentenced four months after shouting in the City of Split expressed what he thought was a citizen. The verdict was found guilty because I quote it "Breaking public order and peace, which violates the article. 13. The Law on Infringements."According to that, he was fined at the height of 756 kuna. Taking away the rights of citizens to criticise authorities and politics, I fear points to the methodology of the dark history of totalitarian regimes hidden behind the worship of democracy, while the same methodology protects its own in any roars, shoutings, experiences, and all under cover of similarity. Suddenly, a homeless man who not so long ago stole dry-meat food and one Vegeta to eat whose value is extremely small and returned it to the store. He was sentenced to eight months in prison. The verdict concludes that Nenad thus assured himself of survival because he is unemployed and has no income. The comparisons, a few years ago, one of Podravka's employees stole 419kg of Vegeta, 329 packs of Fanta, 7kg of spices, 192 soups and not to add any more, were sentenced to ten months in prison by a powerful verdict. The sad fate of Nenad, in which the vast majority of citizens can find at least a fraction of themselves ironically, but it will certainly be much better in prison, will be dry, warm and full. Velimira and Nenada in Croatia have a history not only in the judicial sense but also in each other starting from economic advantage to vaccination against Covid without any order only defined any criteria in which there are all but only criteria. They also show that Nenad and Velimir are efficient and that there is no fear for the rule of law. But is that really so? According to Nenad's example, Croatia is a state where it is less worth more and more. Judging by the prompt convictions and judgments, one of the dry-meat products of countless affairs and millions of robberies that have left citizens out of their pockets no more than money, but any form and hope, as well as faith that we will be a state of righteousness, quality growing, life and aging and state of equality. We're in a country whose entire pores and systems and lives are worth it. The rule of being poor is the one behind whom there is no one to stand. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27776	And now we move on to the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives of Istria, HSS and HSU, Mr Silvano Hrelja will be the first to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u27777	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I'm a lot here but I don't understand how they don't understand me. I speak the language of numbers that are exact but it doesn't work, so it doesn't work. I'm looking for an increase in the price of 400 kuna for the pensioners when someone uninvited agrees to 50 kuna, and the government is celebrating it as a great work. I'm asking for you my dear pensioners with little pensions so you don't pay a rtv fee no answer. I'm looking for it in the right place, because this is the right place, but not from the government, not from you, not from a trace or a voice. You dear pensioners and pensioners despise politicians, I am one of them, and at the same time you curse me and ask me to solve your problems. It's not right to spit, hate, and slap the one you're looking for to solve your problem. We need to team up and work together. I'm saying right, I'm looking right for you and you know it. And then out of nowhere you hear the voice of 800,000 pensioners living under 2,700 kunas a month below the poverty line. That's exactly the voice giving the government an alibi not to do anything. The bigger the number and the more accurate the less chance it's going to be done. Wise people solve problems by problem, define priorities. My priority and your priority is to resolve family pensions in a European way that the widow inherits part of the deceased's pension. That's what I'm asking for for two reasons because it's certainly 220,000 widows have the lowest pensions and most of them are in poverty. And the second reason is that the state has been robbing your dead husband's money for decades. The money that you've been paying together for 60, 70, 80 and more years, and it's only one person's use that's worth it, and the worst thing is they take it, and as they announce it, they'll still receive it more and more those who contribute little or no money. Our HZMO is the only one who doesn't have his money all over Europe, the only one who dictates to him what and how it will be, tailoring a coat that at the end of you dear pensioners and pensioners is the only one who doesn't have business professional and financial independence. I ask you, are we the smartest again or have we allowed politics to decide where and where we should never and nowhere? I don't recognize the forecasts that crack in the media that the working group will present a model of family pensions by the end of the year. Who the hell are you pulling by your nose? Isn't there a HZMO that's got it all in its little finger? How much is there to talk about? That model and the law can be made in two weeks and given in public debate in two weeks. Everything else is buying time and petting eyes. You have to have a will in life and decide to solve the problem, not calculate it's going to cost this much, it's going to cost that much of a budget burden or this or that, and we've got a theft, we've got a theft of contributions. So he has to be able to resist and stop that robbery so that the money someone else was paying is used by someone who wasn't paying. Remember every insurance in the world if it damaged its insurance companies like this, and if it was voluntary, it would have lost all its insurance companies, they would have gone straight to another. Finally, it is important to know that despite the mutuality and solidarity between insurance companies only insurance and those who paid more must get more, never vice versa, except unfortunately in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35683	Thank you. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue with the work, today's first point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 96 The proposal is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the respected Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35684	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Parliamentarians and gentlemen parliamentary representatives. Food and drink supplies for personal consumption and household consumption rests on the food supply chain. In the food supply chain, the consumer is the final point. However, manufacturers, purchasers, processors, traders and other stakeholders related to the food supply chain are involved in this chain through service activities. The food supply chain in the Republic of Croatia has faced the appearance of a supermarket in the last 10 years and has changed significantly. Its structure and business are similar to food supply chains in EU countries. In fact, there has been a change in the organisation of retail trade, a reduction in large numbers of small and medium-sized traders while strengthening the concentration of several trade chains and the emergence of unfair commercial practices. The primary agricultural producer is the food industry, most often pointing out those examples of unfair commercial practices to which the European Commission, i.e. the European Parliament, has been referring in its documents for the last 10 years. At European level, it is pointed out at a number of years that the need for a systematic way of preventing such practices that should have been regulated through a code or a voluntary national framework to address the problem of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. In its resolution of 7 June 2016 on unfair trade practices in the food supply chain, the European Parliament called on the Commission to submit a proposal for a legal framework of the Union in relation to unfair trade practices and on the basis of which Directive 633 of 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the supply chain of agricultural and food products was adopted on 17 April 2019. The obligation of the Member States is to start with the application of the EU Directive from 1 May 2021 in the national legal framework of the implementing offices and from 1 November 2021. In 2017, the Republic of Croatia, before the adoption of the EU Directive with a view to protecting food supply chain participants, has regulated the national legal framework and adopted the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, which determines unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, which imposes the use of a significant negotiating force of the purchaser or processors and traders in relation to their suppliers or regulates the rules and system of measures to prevent the imposition of unfair commercial practices and prescribe powers and practices of law enforcement authorities. In relation to the applicable law, amendments and additions to certain provisions are proposed to comply with the EU Directive. Unfair trade practices in the Republic of Croatia arise as a result of the unequal economic power of stakeholders in the food supply chain, the most affected are farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, or the weakest link in the food supply chain, but also small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with processing. The draft amending and supplementing the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain shall ensure that the tasks of harmonisation with the European legal framework and further regulation of business behaviour and the management of unfair commercial practices are consistently met and product coverage is significantly expanded. For example, certain concepts are fundamentally harmonised and evened with the directive, such as the previously used expressions of the buyer, processor, the trader includes the concept of the buyer. By changing the threshold of the total annual income, the scope of the addressee’s or the buyer’s obligation to law is extended to all purchasers and related companies with a total annual income of more than 15 million kn, entering into the scope of the law and, unlike the former threshold, which was much higher and includes both buyers and/or processors with income of more than 50 million kuna, as a lower level or traders with income of more than 100 million kn as a higher level. More specifically, the obligations of the existence of a written contract between the buyer and the supplier, the rules and responsibilities relating to the issue of invoices and the buy-in bloc and in the list of fair practices include unfair practices from the EU directive, whose coverage of the previous 33 is increasing to 43 phenomena considered also unfair commercial practices, this speaks of the aim of protecting the manufacturer. This legislative proposal defines productive and market-sensitive agricultural and food products which are vital to the sustainability of agriculture. These are milk and dairy products, fresh beef or veal, pork and meat of poultry, fresh fruit and vegetables, flour and bread, sugar, vegetable oils in food. Furthermore, within 30 months of the date of application. As of today’s entry into force of this legislative proposal, two unfair commercial practices are introduced, and this is the sale of sensitive products below the final selling price, which must include sales costs of a minimum of 10%, as well as sales at a price lower than 34% of the final selling price, which limits the action threshold to the action model ‘purchasing 2, one gratis’. In addition, this proposal prohibits unfair practice requiring suppliers, in the context of the promotion, to bear in full or in part, the cost of trying on agriculture and food products sold by the customer in the context of the actions, in such a way that participation in the action sale of suppliers is only linked to the quantities sold through an unsold amount of products purchased at the customer's action price at a regular price. Since the changes have been made in an important way, procedures related to unannounced AZTN controls are being developed, AZTN is an implementing agency for the implementation of this law, as a more effective mechanism and mechanisms have been introduced to protect the identity of applicants of unfair practices against commercial retribution, but also any other form of retribution. The system of application of the control procedures and fines of the AZTN will punish the perpetrators of violations of the provisions of this legislative proposal, although the main objective of the established and established penalties is to deter the initiation of unfair practices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35685	Thank you, too. Stay behind the pay phone because the replicas are coming. First up, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35686	Thank you very much. Due to unfair commercial practice, we are importing more and more in Croatia, mainly food products and agricultural products while our farmers, farmers, fruit farmers and other agricultural branches are simply extinct, simply leaving the job behind because the state did not stand behind them like other countries. We must do, not only bring to the law of this law this law, we must in practice protect our peasant, our cattleman and our farmer. What about meat? Here's what I'm putting in place, with meat, here's pork imported from all sides, which is poisoned with glyphosate, which is fed by soybean, which is on our market on 15 kuna action, the pig's neck, how do you protect it from large trade foreign chains? Do you have a solution other than this paper that you've brought now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35687	Here's your answer. Yes, yes, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35688	Thank you. Thank you to the esteemed representative, Buljo. Therefore, in recent times, especially at the time of the crown of the crisis, reports have also been common regarding this segment, meaning for certain prices which have been a sign of irregularities, and in this case AZTN as the implementing body of this law has acted, the effects are known, therefore, and penalties are defined in this and similar cases for all those who violate the law or who implement unfair commercial practices. In addition, inspection controls are also carried out in relation to all meat traffic, i.e. other products within the EU's common market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35689	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35690	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bridge Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes on this important topic, which we are today discussing unfair commercial practice. I'll tell you a few examples. In 2017, we already passed the Law on unfair commercial practice in the Republic of Croatia. What are the results? That a fruit drinker drank young peaches in Vrgorec because he can't sell, because grapes can't sell, both table and wine, they can't sell anything. We didn't protect our domestic manufacturer. This corona crisis has said that unfair commercial practice has destroyed Croatia's self-sufficiency, mainly as regards food and food products, and therefore we have 700 thousand hectares of unprocessed agricultural land and only because large chains, import lobbies within the ministries, in your ministry, and pests affecting foreign lobbys have destroyed the Croatian village. 900 thousand acres of raw agricultural land, and we don't have a pomidor if the border closes for some kind of threat, we don't have food for seven days. We don't have a stock reserve, we repromaterial for our food production, Podravka, any other imports from Hungary, while our fields, we carrot, we import pepper from Hungary, while our fields lie unworked. You know why, because we didn't protect the domestic producer, both farmers and food production and industry. And that's visible in the Slavonia project. The Slavonia project that has now shut down two sugars. Not only did this industry fail, but the entire agricultural branch will collapse if the state stays behind these people. Please do not, you have indicated such projects for Zagora, Dalmatia and Zagora, Gorski Kotar and Liku, do not bring us such projects. Protect your domestic manufacturer and make sure our fields are modeled and our domestic products, home food on our shelves in accordance with the law. to respect that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35691	Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue at 9.55. It's 9:00.45. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can move on. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:58 AM]] Now it's time for my colleague Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35693	Thank you, dear Secretary of State, according to AZTN, until the end of 2019, 223 cases were launched, of which 36 administrative disputes, but only 7 final solutions with fines of 250 thousand to the highest, million kuna were adopted. Now, on 15 March each year, the Ministry of Agriculture was to report to the EU Commission on the results of these procedures. Is the EU Commission at all satisfied with this amount of procedure, do you think? Are you signaling that this could be better, and secondly, teaching on this. Since there are unfair trade practices from field to table, so practically every step, and I saw somewhere in the materials that farmers don't exactly cooperate in the application, do you think they can be educated a little and encourage them to report that unfair commercial practice or is in someone's interest that Farmers keep their mouths shut? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35694	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35695	Thank you. Here, thanks for asking. So, yes, from 7 December 2017. AZTN is responsible for the implementation of this law. Of the 22 administrative cases in the area of unfair commercial practice in the context of 10 completed administrative proceedings, it has adopted a solution establishing the imposition of unfair commercial practice. So, yes, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Executive Agency, is obliged to report European levels on this, and we believe that the effect is very good and that it points to a certain degree of irregularity, on the other hand, that through these new amendments and additions to the law, it will establish an even wider circle, both address and unfair commercial practices themselves. As far as the second part is concerned, we have more precisely defined through changes and additions to the laws of possibility and unannounced controls, but also the protection of those who report these irregularities. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35696	Now it's time for my colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35697	Good afternoon. I'm going to say a little bit more in the debate why I think this law, these amendments to the law, can't actually come, end these unfair commercial practices, but here I'm curious why you haven't changed the Law of Mandatory Relations which defines these relations between small producers and large chains of trade. How do you think only with 6 new employees to control all such unfair, as you say, commercial practices, and why there is no system of national agricultural policy that would allow flexible subsidies to be competitive, that is, competitiveness of small producers, and not therefore, with these bureaucratic mechanisms which, by all means, will also collect and increase red tape, and the question of what results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35698	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35699	Thank you. Thanks for asking. Yes, I will answer you from the last question in a way that, yes, there is a system of state aid in line with the common agricultural policy and within 2 pillars of the common agricultural policy in the framework of direct payments and rural development programmes, or rural development, farmers can realise various types of support and in the context of their support for income, but also support for increased competitiveness. This system exists, it is well known, at EU level, Croatia as a member of its heritage. On the other hand, 6 so far, AZTN employees will increase by another 6, so 100% increase in this section will guarantee additional efforts and additional efficiency for the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35700	Let's move on. Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35701	Dear President, the respected representatives of the ministry. Subject law was adopted on 7 December 2017. Please comment, there is a large number of foreign trade chains in the Republic of Croatia, it is clear that imports of large quantities of food, exporters from the outside are getting even support on exported food, goods and products are lower prices and in this liberalisation of the market, our domestic producers cannot compete. They fail, and we become dependent on often suspicious products of lower prices and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35702	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35703	Thank you. Therefore, the Law prohibiting unfair trade practices in the EU area regulates these relations, i.e. it is implemented to protect primary agricultural producers against large trade chains, or traders as part of amendments and additions to the law, in the future... Customers, so in this segment Croatia took a step in 2017, it could have been before, but in 2017, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic decided on this step, and only 2019. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU legislation recognised the need for a legal framework in order to protect the primary producer from purchasers against therefore end-users, and this law guarantees an extension of 33 practices to 43 practices so far, in line with EU legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35704	Now it's time for fellow Petyr, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35705	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the issue of unfair commercial practices is not only the specificity of Croatia, but the whole EU itself and the fact that we have fought in the EU for almost the whole term to bring the Directive on the prevention of unfair commercial practice, because because of the lobby of traders and industry, we have been constantly being placed at the feet of the Parliament, it says that this is a huge problem. We have passed the law, we are now harmonising it with the Directive and what I am interested in, if you are planning to introduce instruments through this legislation in order to actually protect farmers, that they will, without fear of breaking their contracts, be able to report unfair commercial practices and think that it is necessary to regulate and regulate the law, as an unfair commercial practice of predatory and dumped prices in order to end the unfair competition on our market and destroy domestic agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35706	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35707	Thank you. In so far, i.e. the current law, certain provisions relating to the law and regarding contractual or contractual obligations have been defined on the basis of the satisfaction of the producer, or farmer, we will further in this part of the amendments and additions to strengthen this segment in order to protect both contractual obligations, i.e. the farmer himself, in relation to the buyer or the buyer. Also, this law brings, excuse me, also brings changes to part of the unannounced controls, but also in part of the protection of applicants, therefore irregularities and in that segment, we expect what you have said, precisely a number of cases, i.e. removal from the same practices relating to dumping prices, i.e. predatory prices imposed by certain trade chains.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35708	Now I'd like to ask my esteemed colleague, Sablar Dračevac, to speak to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35709	I thank the President, distinguished state secretaries with the spokeswoman, therefore, the production of all sensitive foods is almost compromised in the Republic of Croatia and while other countries find ways to protect the area, we are not very effective in this. For example, in mine, I am from Zadar County, in my fertile county is before the war some cultures were harvested and four harvests. We don't use our resources now, and our producers, local producers who produce cultures like Maraška, have to unfortunately drink trees because they can't sell their products on the market, and we can't protect them. So I'm going to ask you one more time, how are you going to strengthen the protection of the manufacturer who reports unfair practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35710	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35711	Thank you. So here I will repeat in this section that we have defined the product and market-sensitive agricultural and food products of vital importance for the sustainability of Croatian agriculture, namely milk and dairy products, fresh beef, veal, pork and meat, fresh fruit and vegetables, flour, bread and sugar, vegetable oil and nutrition. And here I repeat, for the third time, regarding the protection of applicants of irregularities, we have made a commitment from the EU directive to more precisely define this part, as well as unannounced controls, and to protect the applicants themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35712	Comrade Grman Kizavitt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35713	I would like to thank the president of the HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, yesterday we had a Committee on Agriculture on another topic, and we have touched this law. Then I asked you, you probably forgot to answer, in the transitional and final provisions, the still applicable law states that an impact assessment will be made. I'd like to know what you've got from that impact assessment, if you've done it because it says that within two years an impact assessment will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35714	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35715	As regards this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, therefore we are in line with the EU Directive and, as such, there is no need to make an impact assessment, therefore, and in relation to the current law, yes, the impact assessment is mandatory and is done in cooperation with the resolution ministries, i.e. for the executive agency, AZTN and the results, you will be informed of the results, i.e. in this part of the reporting that I have said and which you have received in the materials, there is the effect of the law relating to the number of administrative or irregular cases, i.e. the penalties imposed, i.e. to address the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35716	And, Mr. Grmoy's colleague, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35717	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, we have passed a law on unfair commercial practice, the effects are nothing, so there is no effect here and the question is at all what the role of the state is and whether the state can do anything with this regulation because it turns out that the import lobbys in Croatia are stronger than the state, in the world now these digital corporations are stronger than the states, and now the question is whether it makes any sense to regulate anything when those who are powerful can influence the avoidance of regulations or can regulations adapt to themselves and now, I don't even know if it's possible with such proposals of the law to do anything for small Croatian farmers, producers, because you're constantly announcing some kind of change, and in fact the field the situation doesn't change in favour of our farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35718	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35719	Thank you. According to the official AZTN data of 10 February 2021, which independently and independently performs tasks within the sphere of jurisdiction established by the UNTP, 10 infringements of the provisions of the law have been recorded since the beginning of its application, one offender is sentenced to 2 fines, the total amount of the adjudicated adjudication measures is 5 099 500 kuna, of which 3 offenders paid the fines, amounting to a total of 434 thousand kuna. Therefore, these are the current effects of implementing the law that it has had in relation to the adoption of this High House, a certain delay in application, i.e. implementation, and after that time-limit has gone into effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35720	I thank the Secretary of State. We don't have any more replicas, so you can go back to the scene. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, dear colleague Marijana Petir, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35721	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. Since you have received a detailed report that is very extensive, I will just look back on the main emphasis of what we discussed at the 14th session held on February 5th 2021 and on this law. A positive assessment of the extension of the scope of supervised entities, the increase in the scope of unfair commercial practices, the possibility of unannounced controls and the more precise regulation of contractual obligations. It is proposed to prescribe by law that the final selling price cannot be lower than the production price. It has been warned that the problem of the purchase of repromation from the customer of the product, which could be considered an unfair commercial practice. In addition to the existing voluntary product quality standards, the Republic of Croatia should also introduce mandatory ones and what examples exist in other Member States of the Union. Some unfair commercial practices that have so far been banned by law continue to take place and require stronger controls and clearer regulation of unfair practices. In addition to the proposed action prices, the fear of possible manipulations to the same ones has been expressed. It warned of the importance of the existence of a stock exchange of domestic products to help Croatian farmers distribute. It also questioned possible tools to limit regulated prices on markets and to limit excessive margins. It has been warned of non-payments for taking over livestock life and has been asked about ways to prevent and sanction it. It was also warned that no compensation was provided for producers in established unfair commercial practices. It is also pointed out that the proposed procedures are too complicated and too long, which could result in an increase in imports. Predator prices and standards for which imported products do not have to meet and which are mandatory for our producers are mentioned. It also questioned the possibility of early entry into force of the law, which would be in line with the European Directive. The applicant pointed out that the rules will specify the products to which this law applies, monitoring the situation at the register will avoid possible manipulations with action prices and a system of proven quality will ensure traceability of production. Market prices are not regulated by this act. Any entry into the price policy from the competition aspect is subject to the assessment of the Competition Protection Agency. In addition to paying the fine, the positive effect of law enforcement is the harmonisation of contracts and the elimination of unfair commercial practices. After the debate, the committee made the following conclusions most of the votes and proposed them to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain and other, shall be adopted, the observations and proposals presented in the debate shall be addressed to the applicants in order to prepare a final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35722	Thank you, committee presidents. I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, two MPs will speak, i.e. representative and representative, colleague Bulj and colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35723	Thank you very much. Unfair trade practice in the Republic of Croatia destroyed domestic production. Food production, our cattlemen, farmers, our fruits and vegetables, simply no pass. Homemade organic but for what? Due to the high pressures of import lobbies that are located exclusively and only within the ministries that favour foreign lobbys. At the appearance of the trade chains, at one point, I remember that lamb meat was ten kunas and that's not the problem with them holding for half a year, not frozen from New Zealand, from New Zealand, well, frozen brought here. And to them, it's not a problem to keep it for a few months, it's gonna be cheaper to burn there than to introduce it to us, and of course, if for a year people in this difficult situation buy cheaper, unfortunately what's more ecologically questionable, medically questionable, and of course with age, we've been destroying how this means growing sheep, lambs and the like, that's how it is for others. It's just one example. Monopoly destroyed everything. Who's there to protect? Croatia, Croatian state, Croatian law, Ministry of Agriculture, parliamentary representatives, we are the ones who have to fight to make domestic product on the market favourable, to supplier i.e. Buyer not to terrorize for months without paying our agricultural producers. What's going on? It happens that at that moment because of the non-payment, because of unfair commercial practice, because of import lobbys, we have meanings less and less, more and more and more, we import food products and we produce less and less. And it's very simple. I observe here, I will start from my Dalmatian mountain, and we can from Slavonia, in the end I will end up and worse, we have an example here in Vrgorec the young man was left engaged in fruit growing and winemaking and in the end he could not sell his peach on the market because the import lobby imported cheaply his products and simply he had to take a chain saw and drink it and ic to Ireland. A man, a young family. Let's say in Slavonia. We are talking about the project Slavonia, even the announced Dalmatian Zagora, G. Kotar and Lika, don't make such more projects, see on sugars, what the project Slavonia does. So people who do sugar tail production, fail, leave, production is reduced and the sugar industry is shutting down. What about these people? So we simply have to protect the domestic producer, secure enough quantity, 50% if the shopping trip and the shelves are to be domestic producers and the country has everything to do, local self-government, regional self-government to buy it out, to be used in kindergartens milk, dairy products, and we don't. It's suitable for import lobbys. And that's the key problem. And the commercial practice unfair and the agency for that monitoring of the competition, and that someone will report and provide me with a notifier, people are afraid, believe me. If we do not ensure that domestic products are purchased, we will continue to have 700 000 ha of raw agricultural land, we will still have only 0.5% of the irrigated agricultural land because no one will deal, no one shows interest and one that shows interest, e.g. He can't get the land, like this. in Slavonia to deal with livestock. I mentioned pigmeat, so ask our pigmeat people, so from Hungary, I don't know, Serbia, I don't know where all the imports of soybean pork treated with glyphosate are from. Who controls the meat? And our domestic producers don't do anything to protect themselves. And that's the key problem. Let's protect our domestic production and make sure they're on the shelves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35724	Thank you. All I'm asking for is a pay phone, and after that comes colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35725	My colleagues and colleagues, we will all agree that the law is somewhat in the right direction, but what remains a fundamental problem and what has already been crystallized in the debate is that it is a dead letter on paper. Whatever we do, obviously the fear of reporting is still too great, as we see from 62 cases being launched, only 9 administrative and 53 irregular procedures. What should be the primary objective of the law, again comes down to prevention, so it is not punishment but the establishment of a positive business atmosphere and respect for unfair commercial practices. But how are we going to do that? In order to get to such an environment, we would have to take a step back, so we should have looked at Croatia in the context of the EU. It is not the only country that has had a problem with the adoption of this law, i.e. the implementation of the directive, we did so before we should have, many countries in Europe had a problem and there were major objections at EU level. This reveals one well-known fact which is that the EU rests on the principle of lobbying and that every dollar invested in lobbying is returned multiple times. So the basic question here remains what is Croatia doing at EU level in terms of lobbying to work out better business conditions for its producers who do not manage in this environment despite some directives that we implement on paper but fail to achieve in practice? What is the key to changing this law? Well, it changes the fact that we are now going to have six new employees who will be able to devote themselves to something called unannounced controls here. So we haven't been able to solve the basic problem, which is to create an environment where people themselves will report unfair commercial practices, and now we're going to go proactively, we're going to go into unannounced controls. However, what seems to be the biggest contribution of this legislative framework, which is the fact that income censorship is changing, in fact, will not in practice lead to a major shift because if we look at the Agency's reports and if we look at who it was all about, then it is not the real question in Croatia if anyone is unfair but who is even of the great producers honest? So here we see malts not, listed all manufacturers, all trade chains that are on the market and we find examples of different unfair practices. If we look more closely at what these practices are about, then we notice this second problem that I started with, Croatia's relations with the rest of the EU and how to protect its interests and yet respect positive trade practice and the free market within the EU. For example, you have an example of the Plodins who have been punished for unfair commercial practice, which concerned specifically one Dutch telethon supplier to justify it, according to which they eventually did not pass in the administrative court, by the fact that they themselves were pressed by the same producer who is outside Croatia and who exceeds their power, purchasing power. So, who is small in relation to whom it is not only a question of who is small in relation to who within Croatia but how strong Croatia is in relation to the rest of the EU. And that's what brings us to that key problem, which is the dumped prices our producers can't deal with. So, regardless of what we're going to reduce here, the income censorship, if we see that all major producers are still part of unfair commercial practices, whether the key to the reduction or the key to what needs to be is the detection of those who are already implementing these practices. The second question that is being raised also concerns the problem of what is the biggest problem for our producers is the problem from across the EU, which is precisely those countries that are exporters of "bad food", as well as producers better. But in that case, when producers are better, which is Croatia, they are only for the foreign market. For example, as the president of the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture pointed out at the time, we import our first-class apple, and in return trucks bring an apple that has stood in the freezers for a year. In most cases, our food is still fully healthy and extremely good quality and as such ends up in EU markets, unlike the food that comes from it and ends up on the shelves of shopping centres. The system, the only system, is whether we are going to round up small producers or in any other way we will approach this problem, remains an open question but the only system in which irregularities are reported without fear, rather than unannounced controls, that system that will prevent unfair commercial practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35726	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Martina Grman Kizivat, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35727	I would like to thank the president of HS, the honourable secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. That the situation in Croatian agriculture is bad, we all know, it is the only thing that may not be a conscious agriculture minister, Marija Vukkovic, who is increasingly shocked every day by bringing bad laws under cover of compliance with EU directives. So today we have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain. The Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the 2017 food supply chain has 35 articles, and these amendments change 25, which speaks sufficiently of the quality and implementation of the law itself. We insist that the proposal is withdrawn from the procedure by supplementing and amending the law and that a new law on the prohibition of commercial practices be drawn up with a clear and unambiguous definition of sensitive provisions. We believe that this law will further encourage imports to the detriment of domestic producers and introduce complex procedures that could result in an increase in costs throughout the food supply chain. We insist that the final selling price is defined more clearly. It is said that the final selling price at which the retailer sells the product and the final consumer, is formed in a way that the purchase price of agricultural and food products is multiplied by a minimum coefficient of 1.10. What does the definition of the least mean? In addition, we're interested in what costs enter that coefficient of 0.00? Is that a margin, is that some other fee? We believe that customers should know what they pay through clear provisions in the law, we insist that the definition of the final selling price, as well as the other provisions that apply to it be complemented. We also insist that the deadline for issuing the ransom block is defined, which means that the quantity and quality of the dedicated goods are clearly known on the spot. This is extremely important for small and medium-sized farmers who are mostly not in the VAT system. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this The elements of the buy-in block are the quantity of goods, quality and price determined and clearly stated amounts of the contracted discounts or rebates and the exact specification to which they relate in accordance with publicly published binding customer conditions to the supplier. However, what is not defined is the deadline for the ransom bloc to be issued. Let us assume that the customer must fill in the storage loop and record the entry of the product into the accounts for further account. According to field information from agricultural producers, that's not always the case. Sometimes ransom blocks don't come out when they take over goods, and they don't even know the price. I would like to draw attention to the question of defining the price of goods in the markets on the Committee on Agriculture. The answer from the secretary of state, mildly shocked me. The answer is that the market price is defined in accordance with market conditions because they are not covered by this law because they do not exceed the threshold of 15 million kuna. Now I'm asking if it's normal for small and medium-sized farmers not to be protected by law again, so buyers, shoppers, etc. They can do whatever they want with blackmail and bad conditions to make our producers corner. So much for taking care of the smallest. All EU countries are taking care of the preservation of domestic production, only in Croatia is this dead letter on paper. For certain provisions that are unclear in the amendments and amendments to the law, which are indicated during the e- Consultation, the ministry's response is that they will be clarified by supplementing the document. Answer the questions of the law address book. We believe that with such a sensitive law, all provisions should be clearly defined, and as they will be complemented, as the ministry has prescribed, that should be prescribed by law. In order to clearly define and deal with sensitive food and processing products, we propose that an article introduces compensation for sensitive agricultural and food products with clear definitions and provisions in the law. We want to avoid the situation that our suppliers have additional costs, which affects their competitiveness and that sensitive agricultural and food products are eventually destroyed or become waste after the prescribed deadline. We also witness that the domestic agricultural food industry has very often to sell products on stock due to the extremely low price of import products. In order to protect domestic agriculture and the food industry and avoid false interpretations and concerns, as was the case with sugars, when the minister called on the trade chains to increase the price of sugar, we require that the payment of goods to suppliers at action prices be defined in one article. That's for example. prescribed by the Slovenian law, not in ours. But it's not like this law doesn't take care of anything. These changes are taken seriously, and this is already ensured through the state budget, additional employment of new 6 employees in the Competition Protection Agency. A million and 500 thousand kuna are secured. In view of the fact that since 2019, of the 36 administrative procedures, 7, 8 employees have been resolved. So, not even the whole case, per employee in a year. For an additional 6 employees, we may expect even 13 solutions per year, and the justification is to increase the number of employees by increasing the scope of the job. We have to admit they haven't been very operational by now, but maybe these new six employees fix this poor statistic. Finally, as I asked in the replica yesterday on the board, the transitional provisions of the 2017 Law states that within 2 years of the entry into force of the law, the Ministry of Agriculture will carry out the compensation for the impact of the law. Here, and today I asked, I got a partial answer, or I didn't even get one. Since the impact assessment was to be carried out within 2 years, no later than 2020. Today in 2021, the ministry's response is not clear, which means the ministry probably didn't make an impact assessment. I don't know why it's so hard to say. To conclude, in all EU countries, the farmer is important, and agriculture is the main one. Today we face the fact that those who once fed us all are forced to think about how to feed themselves and their family. These are, no less than the consequences of poor agricultural policies. Until Minister Vukkovic and the Ministry of Agriculture understand it, it will not help our farmers either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35728	Now we're going to the third debate, it's the House Movement Representatives Club and respected colleague Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35729	The esteemed president of the HS, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, so in the House of Homeland Movement Club, we conclude that the key problem is the policy that comes out of the Ministry of Agriculture avoiding recognition of the real situation on the ground. During 2017, the Ministry of Agriculture passed a law on unfair trade practices in the food supply chain, which was then cited by the Ministry of Agriculture as a legislator, was to combat the unfair advantage of purchasers over food producers in terms of the bargaining advantage of buyers over producers. In fact, since 2014, the EU Commission has warned us that we are overly trying to regulate everything, or we are making too many laws, and we do not know what effect they will have on the ground, from which it seems to me that the ministry has completely left the management of structures within the ministry that have no contact with the field and are avoiding it, as well as the data from the field that would help the process of decommissioning and improving, do not. The current Law on unfair commercial practices, following the initial "boom", has not changed a single unfair commercial practice. On the ground, we are well aware that unfair commercial practices are all present, but now under a slightly changed name. So they continue to return goods to suppliers, take off product prices, charge tickets, but they are now called the payment of marketing activity or the acceptance of goods. Then, for the purchase of fruit and vegetables, buying blocks with one quantity and price are issued, and after 60 days they are changed and other quantities and prices are written, i.e. they are written off and their price is removed. Unfortunately, and for the current law on unfair trade practices in the food supply chain, the Ministry of Agriculture has been obliged, through an impact assessment of the rules, to carry out an evaluation over 2 years, but the assessment has not been made. Or, if she did, to us ordinary mortals she wasn't available. I wonder when the relevant ones will realize that this law has created new costs for the administration through the creation itself, and the effect has lagged. Plus, we lost two more years we don't have. I will present to you the situation that is happening to our parlours in buying or selling live cattle. The manufacturer sells bulls to the buyer, after 90 days of surrendering live animals, there is no payment. Looking at the provisions of the law, the first problem of the law is that bulls are not food, or they are live animals and the law is not related to them, and the other problem is that the law does not give any possibility to charge the farmer, but only allows the buyer to pay the fines by the agency, and what will ultimately result, that when the buyer pays the penalty to the agency, then he will not have money to pay the manufacturer again. Or eventually they'll close down the company and avoid paying everyone. These and many other negative effects were those that could and had to be envisaged as such through the impact assessment. This way, on paper alone, we have another one in a series of laws that doesn't solve the real problem. I'll explain the situation to you in buying out wheat, or wheat. The manufacturer submits the grain to ransom, charges him a pointless ticket for his dedicated goods, that is to say that the amount is taken from the account and nothing to anyone, and with other war cultures, so in the purchase of war cultures, different manipulations occur, for example, by measuring and determining the quality of the product where there are serious doubts and unilaterally certain parameters. There are frequent situations where the percentage of moisture on existing measuring devices that our warlords have installed in their combinations, or measuring devices owned by warlords, and are neatly laminated or moderated in authorised institutions, are several percent different from what the purchaser's measuring device determines in the handover of crops itself. Of course, the purchaser also creates the price of purchased crops according to the percentage of specific humidity. Therefore, a direct measure to assist the manufacturer could be a control, i.e. a control committed by the ministry or by an inspectorate to which a fair purchase and calculation of the dedicated crop could be provided in a buying-in place, but there is no such action. When we talk about the purchase of food products, therefore the contract between the manufacturer and the purchaser was changed after the law came into force and they were forming a new one. Therefore, unfair commercial practices are now considered to charge tickets, to charge places in the store, to compensate for the goods delivered and to return the goods, and the role of the law was to abolish these business practices. However, what is happening in the field, or what are the results of law enforcement? Therefore, the emphasis on the place of the product in the store continues to be charged, but through the collection of marketing activity by the manufacturer of the contract annex when entering the mall must be accepted, and the purchaser during the year dictates the price and determines how many times it will be charged. The manufacturer, if he wants his product on a marketing leaflet, shall indicate the same additional salary. Then, if the trade chain decides to lower the price of the product, the manufacturer, or the supplier, must agree to the same and specify which is the reduced price. Then the compensation for the goods sold continues to take place, but the contract annexes the compensation after the goods have been handed over. Then, it returns to the event, but they are now being handled through terms such as goods with low turnover, then, goods for which the manufacturer also signs in the contract that it will be taken over and borne the costs of return, also, on the ground already widely accepted lists so-called. Lists A and lists B or goods for which there is a return and one for which there is no return is also a continuous return of bakery products regardless of the law, because it is logical, namely from the return of bakery products, part of the bread crumb, then dried bread for the feeding of cattle, etc., and I can even conclude that this government does not know the basics of production because it does not foresee such situations when the law is passed. I must also mention the situation with the purchase of agrum in the Neretva valley, so during the delivery of the goods, one price and quantity are agreed on the delivery itself, and the quantity taken down in such a way as to refuse to accept the quantity requested and the agreed price is taken down, so the original price is produced by a buying block which does not contain the signature of the buyer, which is then replaced after 30 to 60 days with an account where the even less price of the purchase is placed because it is said to be of poor quality and that the sale price has been lower and that part of the crop has failed, and the amount initially committed, therefore countless manipulations over our farmers. In fact, the law on unfair commercial practices itself is completely unnecessary and incomplete because it cannot regulate the relationship between the two participants who start a business relationship by making a contract and then apply to them the Law on Mandatory Relations from which it was clear from the very beginning that this law has no effect nor will it have any effect on the relationship between the manufacturer and the buyer or the manufacturer can collect its goods through this law. Therefore, the whole meaning and logic is only to help producers to join together and so the associated perform before buyers and individual OPGs who want to sell on their own can but not in trade chains and then Regulation 1169/2011 itself, which refers to the emphasis of data and declarations on the product, together with the nutritional values and whose production costs our manufacturer, has logic because the manufacturer who sells on the market, therefore occasionally and temporarily, should not have such a declaration and pay the nutritional value of the product but only the product sold through the trade chains. Such an attitude and resolving the problem of agriculture is logical and European-based, not that our farmer is being dragged into the fight with lions and then pro-forma is passing a law on unfair commercial practice that logically cannot or will not protect the individual from the pack of lions that our farmer has to fight daily. Our Ministry of Agriculture must once and for all realize that its representatives must sit at a table with producers in the regions and detect problems and not from a building in Vukovar bring countless laws that are not known to have an effect on farmers and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35730	Thank you, too. We will now go to the fourth debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Sinisha Jankac. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35731	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the law on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. These amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain require the harmonisation of certain provisions and with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the supply chain of agricultural and food products, in which coordination is carried out both psychologically and essentially. The constitutional basis for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain is the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that Article. 2., 16 and 50, which are prescribed jurisdiction for the adoption of this law and the regulated possibility of restricting entrepreneurial freedom in exceptional cases and which cases constitute reasons for the adoption of this law or unfair commercial practice which has started to be created in food supply. In recent years at EU level, there has been a need to prevent unfair trade practices in the food supply chain leading to the fact that food supply chains are party to an unequal economic power and significant efforts have been made to achieve this task. In 2017, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, which entered into force in 2017. The adoption of that law in the Croatian legal system established a legal framework for the establishment of insurance and protection of fair commercial practices in order to protect all food supply chain participants and to establish unfair commercial practices aimed at exploiting the significant negotiating force of the buyer or processor or trader in relation to their suppliers. A significant negotiating force has customers who have achieved a total annual walk of 15 million kn or more. The current law as a significant negotiating force defined traders with a total annual turnover of 50 million kn as a lower level, i.e. 100 million kn or more as a higher level. Until the laws were passed, farmers and the food industry were in a particularly unfavourable position. The purpose of the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain is to combat unfair commercial practices which are contrary to good business behaviour, against good faith and fair treatment, which in practice arise from the exploitation of the economic power and position of one party, in particular by the buyer in a business relationship where disproportionate obligations are imposed on the other party and economic actors are in an unequal position and are lost to balance in the correct obligations. Such practices can be unfair even though there is agreement between the economic parties. In the case of trade in agricultural and food products, the need to introduce protection against unfair commercial practices of agricultural producers and food industries which often consumers imposed such practices using their position and stronger economic strength. First of all, it is about protecting farmers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and small and medium-sized enterprises in processing. Amendments to the Law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain are essentially harmonised and defined by the concepts of the Directive, e.g. The term "purchaser", "processor", "trader" replaces these changes with the term "purchaser", and other terms are also harmonised. These amendments and additions change the scope of the product in such a way as to extend the products to which this law applies, and the same as so far applies to those products covered by the current regulations of the law in question, which is food, but also unprocessed agricultural products. A detailed regulation of the written contract between the buyer and the supplier, the rules and responsibilities of the issuing of invoices and the buy-in block, and an extension of the list of unfair commercial practices from 33 to 43 so far, which are included in the law of all unfair practices prescribed in the Directive. Thus, as an unfair commercial practice, it determines the absence of a written contract between the buyer and the supplier or the existence of the same, but drawn up against this law. Then payments which are not clearly highlighted and specified in the account or in the ransom block, the general terms of the business of the buyer which are not in accordance with this law, the possibility of a simple termination or modification of the contract by the customer in unwritten form or without giving basic reasons for the termination, disproportionately high contractual penalties, paying the supplier in time longer than prescribed, cancelling the purchaser of broken products and food products within a period of 30 days, the demand from the payment provider not related to the sale of agricultural food products, the demand from the supplier for payment of fees for services provided but not contracted, the demand for the payment of a refund or loss of agricultural food products that occurred after those products had passed on to the property of the buyer, whereby the customers are trying to transfer the risk of business to the suppliers. Requesting compensation for the inclusion of a agricultural or food product in the customer's offer, and other practices aimed at improving the customer's position, and to the detriment of suppliers by taking advantage of the buyer's stronger position than the supplier's. The rules of conduct of unannounced controls carried out by the Competition Protection Agency as the authority responsible for the implementation of this law have also been developed. Particular attention is paid to mechanisms to protect the identity of applicants of unfair practices. Amendments have also been made to the provisions amending the provisions governing the punishment of a customer who uses unfair commercial practices in their business. The current law also added a new chapter that regulated the cooperation of the Competition Protection Agency with the European Commission and the implementing bodies of the EU Member States, as well as in the reporting. Also in the basic text of the law in the food supply chain after the consultation was carried out, certain proposals were accepted on which I congratulate the ministry for respecting proposals from the field. We should stress that, in any case, we should think about it, given that the law is clear and broad and solves the mass of problems, that the public, and we see here and some fellow MPs, are not informed, so that in any case the public should inform and inform the public about the offenders and their punishment, so that they would in some way prevent further offenders from wanting to do all the things that I have listed here, but that the public would be better informed. I am sorry that there is no colleague from the SDP here because this law has long been in the drawer of their government who unfortunately did not have the strength to pass this law because they advocated at that time for the liberal market. They were obviously not so interested in the protection of small farmers at that time, if we remember at the time of the vote of the OPG Law, they left the HS session. So here's to congratulating the government of the Republic of Croatia for the strength of 2017, which has passed this law. I also congratulate the ministry for continuing to bring this law into line with EU provisions, with the cracks of the commission, and this law will give greater power to our agricultural producers and will bring order to the market for agricultural products and I think this is a good start because, as I mentioned at the beginning of this issue, not only the Republic of Croatia is facing but the whole EU is also meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35732	Let's move on to the 5th debate, it's the Green-Left Bloc's Club of Representatives, the esteemed colleague Sandra Bencic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35733	I would like to thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This law and the first time it has been voted here, and even now these changes and additions are some kind of attempt, and perhaps a little naive to actually blame the corrections that have been made by politics, a 30-year-old policy of belief, blind belief in market liberalisation, free market, and in general the idea that 4 million people in this country are actually having some kind of market and that then our producers will be able to survive those best, belief in all these floscules has led us to now desperately try to regulate the disproportionate relations of power that we have on that market. I hope it's after these 30 years. And after seeing the consequences of this blind belief in the invisible arm of the market that solves everything, there was awareness in this assembly that if we want to have a sustainable agricultural policy, if we want to have such self-sufficiency food and that if we want to preserve this little producer that we have with that paradigm market and that the market will only solve everything we have to cross. Because we need to be aware that large trade chains that are mostly international large trade chains, a market of 4 million people, people are not the market. And yes, of course they agree with each other and yes, of course they treat small producers the way they treat them, and then we give them what? For example, we give them a smaller VAT, so let's say we give them lower VAT products because with the idea they'll also be naive, that they'll lower prices because they're going to compete with each other. That's funny. No one downgraded the price. What they took took was a bigger margin and put it in their profits, but we gave it to them as a state. What else do we give them? We give them, for example, now with this new regulation that what's been illegal so far, which is that they literally charge and blackmail with a position on a particular shelf in the store, now they can actually do it legally, legally. We'll give them that, too. We also gave them that our producers did not join and strengthen their negotiating position as we did because they have time of course to engage and negotiate, they have time to deal with, for example, building the warehouses that we were supposed to build for them, they all have time and financial powers. And all the time here we talk about in the context of the competition as if it were really about equal sides, and we have a literally match between Inkopa Poznanvec and Barcelona and then we watch who wins because it's very tense. So it's quite clear, it's quite clear that we haven't done enough as a state. What was it we were supposed to do? So, at least at regional, regional level, we should have a state-funded infrastructure, which serves to buy products from local producers, to pack them, to give markers of traceability where it is financed from public funds and where it enables these producers to negotiate with a larger amount and back-up state with someone, not a coincidence or a game where we wait tensely for a small cheese manufacturer to get a policy in Lidl. So the key question about this regulation and the policy towards manufacturers is who we protect, who we protect? Are we protecting a non-existent competition that we know isn't there or that we're protecting our small producers? Yesterday here, a colleague from the MOST spoke of him being for smaller states and less regulation. All those who have the idea that there is no need to regulate relations on the market say that there is no need to regulate the relationship between David and Goliath, or that the game is a fair match when Inkop is playing against Barcelona. So, that idea that we don't need to regulate the same thing should be abandoned. But what we do is we overregulate things, and we don't regulate them at all. For example, did we, now that we have adopted this law, consider this aspect that we are bringing it into the context of the new Green Plan and that, for example, there is a strategy "From Fields to Tables" at EU level, and that, for example, what was once considered to be a distortion of the competition today is actually due to the reduction of CO2 footprints and reduction of transportation within, food transport, for example, from the new producer can be regulated in some ways. So for example, instead of letting them charge the position on the shelves, we could say no to the manufacturers, you'd have to have a certain part of the product from the locals that must be highlighted as local products with a smaller CO2 footprint because that's our Green Plan. So if Croatia had adopted its Green Plan, not prescribed from Europe and is waiting for Europe to say, we could now integrate it into this law. But I also say it doesn't have to be all beatings, it doesn't have to be all beatings, it can be carrots. For example, why not establish a procedure to assign trade chains that support local production and fair trade, fair trade, so only those chains that really have a certain share of local products that they bought by fair trade practices and those indicators, the criteria of fair trade practice that we set here. So then HGK, let's give them a part of the promotion, so those practices that are fair and those stamps, and we'll know where we're going to buy. Here I will first buy where, where the trader buys from locals and has at least 30-40% of the share of local producers. Also, when we talk about what the relations of this force on the market you must know and we must bear in mind that one Lidl has a profit of 330 million kuna, that a “Plodine” that was punished with a million kuna had some profit of 130 million kuna, we are talking about profit not income, income is at levels of billions. And then what are we doing? Once again, we are prescribing in this law of punishment in absolute terms. So what does it make sense to punish someone who has 4 billion dollars in income with 1 million kuna? That sounds like a million kuna to someone. So it's much better to pay that million kuna to you than to implement fair commercial practices where, of course, it's going to lose some of the profits, it might increase the revenue, but it won't all go to profit. So the key thing is that in this law, we start by prescribing penalties against the percentage of income, so when you hit someone with 5%, 1%, 3%, non-essential, total annual incomes, they're going to think a little bit about whether they're worth breaking the law. Because according to what we have now agreed, it is absolutely worth breaking the law. There is also a question of the Competition Protection Agency. We have an agency whose choice is not being made, so the election of members of the council is not done through a public tender, but we have that choice by the government proposed, the council votes members, excellent. Although the EU directive requires it to go through public procedure. And now what's happening to us? Politically elected members of the Board of the Competition Protection Agency. Who influences politics? Influenced by both import lobbys and, of course, large trade chains because they have power influences, small producers do not have and then we have a controller that more or less can, whose choice is more or less influenced by those that will be controlled by that controller. Awesome. It's the same thing that we have to solve in the new Competition Protection Act that will soon come to our second reading. So let's decide who we're protecting, whether we're protecting a free game that doesn't have or we're protecting our agricultural production and building food self-sufficiency?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35734	Time, yes, thank you. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak for the Croatian Sovereigns' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35735	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, this is a kilo of sugar, the Prime Minister's sugar crystal produced at the Osijek Sugar Factory. Dear Secretary of State, don't pay attention, take a look around, because you won't have a chance to see this again on the shelves of Croatian shops. So, neither this sugar nor the sugar of Virovitic Sugar, the only thing left will be the county sweetener and that's the question...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35736	So it's not propaganda, it's not propaganda? Mr. Zekanovic, it's not propaganda, isn't it EPP then?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35737	I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35738	Because if the EPP hadn't shown up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35739	So, honourable vice president of the assembly, you can't advertise one product that's no longer in the shops. This product is no longer in stores, this product is no longer produced, nor is the product of Virovitic Sugar. So I can't advertise something that doesn't exist anymore, and there's no sugar industry in Croatia anymore, so with one small exception, there's still Sladoran County. So it's not a commercial because this no longer exists, you can no longer buy this in Croatian stores. And the key question is, are we self-sufficient? When the coronary crisis started, our agricultural producers couldn't place their products. However, refrigerators full of products, agricultural products came to Žitnjak on the Green Market and they placed their products. And Minister Vukkovic is unmistakably justified now in the breaking of the sugar industry in Croatia. It's not her fault again, it's not the EU's fault either. To be clear, Croatia is not an exception here, in Europe or in the EU in recent years, in the last 15 years. 89 sugars went down. Why? Is anyone responsible? Are we going to buy Chinese sugar now? You know what the answer is? We will, we're already buying it. Will the Croatian farmers, will our Slavons plant sugar tail tomorrow? No, they won't, so we won't have sugar beet production in Croatia. So we have one big problem, a huge problem of systematic destruction of the basic Croatian industry and one of the famous products that we have is this sugar, and unfortunately we won't have it soon either. I must stress that Croatia was in the European and world-wide sugar production summit in the 1990s. We were proud of the sugar production. And where are we today? Croatia has made huge efforts to save shipbuilding and I don't mind having a shipbuilding, however, I'm glad we have the shipbuilding. But apparently, the Ministry of Agriculture has completely failed here when 300 workers from Virovitica and Osijek, 100th from Virovitica, 200th from Osijek, and no one's saying anything, were sent to the street these days. Here's my colleague correcting me, not 100, but... 60, here it is, 60 from Virovitica, right? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] 60, sorry. 60 families lost their salary, no income and Croatia without the basic industry. If this is the way the Croatian state is run, then we don't write well. And I'm going to repeat that thing that was said very often when the coronary crisis began. Are we self-sufficient? Here's the first I started using that word for this payphone, it hasn't been used before. And the answer is simple, we're not. We're not self-sufficient in anything, absolutely in nothing, and as much time goes on, we're going to be less and less. Because we've left ourselves to European bureaucracy, we've left ourselves in the hands of incompetent European bureaucrats who obviously don't get along in the world, and I won't even talk about Croatian bureaucrats. I'm going to conclude, I'm not going to talk about this subject anymore, even though it could be talked about a lot. I repeat, you will no longer be able to buy this sugar in Croatian shops and here is the secretary of state, I will remember this kilo of sugar, you will forward it to Minister Vukkovic for memory, so in her term, she successfully stuck the last nail into the coffin of Croatian sugar production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35740	What are you done with, Mr. Zekanovic? ... And my 10 minutes, I thought I'd give him another 15 seconds to break up, but here we are, where we are. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. Lenart in front of the HSS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35741	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. I wish we had a law on fair trade practice here, but perhaps that's not Croatia, so then we have this proposal for a law on unfair commercial practice. It says unfair commercial practice appears as one of the consequences of an unequal share in the food supply chain. So, always little fish get hurt because big fish and the same case is in the Republic of Croatia and for nothing we bring laws that no one implements here. We don't have the police, we don't have the judiciary, we don't have the investigating bodies, I mean, there's one, but it looks like they're gone. Here I will tell you one case that happened in Savina, Croatia, where corn is not last year but since last year was taken over but until today no one has paid it, it is also the work of corn rape from Slavonia, the total damage is about 18 million kn that have been suffered by agricultural producers and until today they have not received any money or hope. There is a notification of the victim's crime, there are data that were sent to the USOKK in Gajevo, there are accounts issued by Agrokom Natura from Gunja whose owner allegedly fled to BiH because there is always the easiest place to hide when you have two passports, there are corn traps that someone has taken over, a bagarin, signed by Zorotic, an OPG Zorotic on whose scale corn has been weighd and where the corn is dug up. The Miklic family from Kutina suffered half a million kn of damage. And they don't see either way or the way that money will come to the crop they handed over, only 50 and a few thousand kn paid for the transport from Kutina to Croatia Dubica because the merchants and the buyers agreed on what the price of corn would be, the corn had nowhere to be delivered, and then those who offered and knew they wouldn't pay took the corn and damaged the deliberately agricultural producers. Why is this happening? Well, because the legal doesn't work in the Republic of Croatia. And we're free of the law on unfair commercial practice if we have cases like this where there are clearly all the documentation, here's what I showed you here today, where there are witnesses, where people have signed that they've taken over, that they've issued accounts, corn reportedly ended up in Gareshnica in silos, ended up in Sedlic's group, behind which he's lost a simple clue. Here's what the ministry is going to do to save these farmers? Corn is the main agricultural culture on the farm. When you steal someone, this is pure theft, major war culture, I ask you how they're gonna get away with it, and how they're gonna do next year's production? This is an economy that works about 150 ha, maybe something more and will be very difficult to get out of. The second story is, here yesterday was in the media, olive oil, virgin olive oil, where the media reports that the inspection found a violation of the oil quality law, but these are some oils, in some chains, I'm asking you why aren't the chains and manufacturers of that oil? Why do we always protect some big ones and here in this law we make it clear that these big ones are doing you harm small ones, and that's why it's a unfair commercial practice? Why do we do damage to our consumers who use olive oil often to improve their health or to improve their health and ultimately buy some waste of oil from which they still have health problems and health damage? Why aren't they named? Because we can't, because our government and our ministries can't name because they're afraid. Because we depend on import goods, we're not nearly enough to feed our population and then talk like this. Some oil, some chains, whether someone gets a ticket, someone gets a ticket, probably no one, and that's our problem. Porcine farming, we launch operational programs that encourage the construction of pigs' farms where the advisory service and the ministry persuaded and encouraged farmers, you build farms, we help you, loaned them. Where did they bring them today? That imports into Croatia pork of 6.5 kuna per half. 6.5 kuna, so no one can produce it for that. For a kilo of live scale pigs must eat 3, 3.5 kilograms of quality mixture, so calculate how much that mixture costs, breeding sets, that, work, objects, electricity, and everything goes in that production, there's no way. But yet no one defends this small producer in Croatia who, with the last atoms of strength, hopes that Croatia will finally realize that it needs agriculture and agricultural production. It's been a year since the start of the pandemic, and in that pandemic we didn't realize, unfortunately, we didn't realize we needed our own food. I ask myself every day as a farmer what I need. What am I supposed to do with the old machines, invest money, you only know how much the repromatter costs? When you produce, you don't know how much your product will cost. Often he falls below the manufacturing price and what do you do? You've worked all year to lose. Many wonder, many have closed their farms, their properties and gone to Germany, Ireland and finally say they live normally. They're finally living normal. For what? Because we write and adopt laws in the Croatian Parliament, we do not respect them, we do not have independent institutions to implement them and those who violate them will sanction them in a way that never comes to mind. That's how it's done in developed Europe. This is how it is done in Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands and all the older members. Have you ever wondered if we're importing anything from Bulgaria, from Romania, from those poorer members? We're not importing. Did the chains come from Bulgaria, Romania, not. They came from a rich Europe to take what little we have, and we have less and less every day. Bania, many say that the right word is Bani than Banovina, but to me anyway, to be honest. After what happened, unfortunately in this area of a devastating earthquake, all truths about Bania were stripped. Well, that's where the agricultural production died 20 years ago. That's where it all stopped 20 years ago. Nothing was invested. The lists of OPGs now being worked there show all the misery of our agriculture. And it's a great honor for those people who stayed there under those dogs, hills, on their poverty trying to fight for their survival and have some kind of production, we promise them today towers and fairies, and it's known that they won't get it. It is known that some of their properties cannot survive under such conditions as Croatian agricultural production that we give them gold and diamonds every day. But we never wonder when we're passing bad laws, when we're passing laws that aren't enforceable, so no matter what minister he was, I don't want to criticize either the Minister or the Secretary of State because they're not the only ones who run the ministry. You know, the ministry has 2/3 people who think the cow is purple because they've never touched that cow in their life. They only saw the one from Milka Chocolate. Well, as long as those people make us politics, by then we peasants will be thinking about what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35742	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35743	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with an associate, the earliest one would refer to the color of the cow that my dear colleague said, but my son, when we were once in the Netherlands, and when he looked at a bunch of cows that were on the pasture for 24 hours, he told me, look, I see different cows, but nowhere is Milka. So it's nothing out of the ordinary, but I'm going back to this topic, so we have an amendment to the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. We have one law that we passed in 2017, now we change it and supplement it, and there we can discuss between form and content. So, we have EU directives, we have a law that's been in place for a while, we've seen what wasn't good in that application, if we've seen or we've just decided to comply with the directive, and now we have amendments and additions, and there's a form that's satisfied and we can say fine, all right, complex, maybe we need to agree this provision one way or another. But in the debate on this we come up with content and here, as we were wondering yesterday, we have to ask a few questions. First thing, how do we read the role of the state? So we've been in the pandemic for a year now. The pandemic of the Crowns and these unfortunate earthquakes that I am, would be enough for us, and these unfortunate earthquakes where in fact all the blasting areas of Croatia are shaking have made it even stronger and bare the real situation. They were naked, yesterday we were discussing budgeting for 2019 when flowers flourished like in spring and it turned out to be all on flimsy feet and that something was wrong. The experience we've had should be used to take a step further. I'm a part of the state, and I've said it a few times from this pay phone and I'll repeat it every time. We need the state at a time when citizens don't know how to get out, the moment it's hard, the moment you have a crisis, when everything works, it's good for the state to move a little bit aside. The Panda Crown showed a few things, it showed that all that production that was in the Far East, that the states that were ready, said we were going to go back to production because when it was that hard lockdown couldn't be at all, someone who worked there couldn't contact their own and get the product out of there. All the states have turned around and said look, in production, and let's see what we are, which is self-sufficient, that's some new word or some kind of excerpt and we should read it out and it's read out from this law. We can look at this law in the context of great and small, in the context of power and powerlessness. This is actually the relationship we're talking about. A friend of mine 10 years ago had one and he still has an excellent architectural office and he's got an offer to design for Agrokor, and maybe more than 10 years. And I tell him, well great, that's gonna cover everything that needs to be covered, Agrokor's a big system. Well, I'm not going to work for him, I'm saying why, he says, if I work for him, I'll lose all my clients who aren't big, but every time they come and report, I work for them for years, I'll keep working. If anything happens to Agrokora, it's going to happen to me, and then I'm actually on 1-1, in a very simple example of real life, you learn this relationship of great and small, this relationship of power and impotence, this relationship of reason. This law should be read in the context that we have to take care of it, and there is the role of the state, that it must take care to protect its own, to protect its producers, to protect what it needs, in fact, what we want. And we come to the next topic, we recently had a strategy here to develop the Republic of Croatia by 2030. The prime minister took the strategy very lightly, he came here and just listed some things for us. From that strategy until 2030, we should have read some things about what kind of country we want to be in terms of and the development of agriculture by 2030. What, we want to develop? What do we want to invest in? But it's not that we get what's happened to us countless times, and that's your one-time move. Now he's wearing purple and now we're investing everything in purple. The second season is worn dark blue, now we're going to invest everything in the dark blue. That's what we did. We don't have continuous policies. So regardless of what policies they are, whether they are agricultural policies, whether they are education policies and when you see how citizens judge us and how they evaluate the whole system that we are sitting in, we are representatives of some citizens and we need to fight for their interests because they chose us. Why don't they trust us? Because they all know it's gonna take a summer. Now this summer, we'll take care of, I don't know, livestock. I don't understand it very much, and then I'm very careful when I talk about it, but I do understand some systems and some ideas and something that we should know what we want and how we want. And then they, then they're very careful, very hard to get into things because they see their neighbors who have failed, who have believed, who have raised loans, who have built something, who have done something, and failed. And we need to read this in that context, we need to know what we want, what we want, and where we're going. We, that answer, don't have, when one country brings a strategy of its development, so either global or one branch for which it has to decide how important it is, then it brings it to the maximum consensus, then it's a maximum debate, and it doesn't bring about a relationship of power. Well, I have 76 hands in Parliament, so you say whatever you want, and I'll vote it, and then I'll tell you when I get the chance to say that you're incompetent, that you're like this and that you're like this. It is a relationship, so this law tells you about this relationship of great and small, power and impotence and the question is, you have to protect all those, the topic is and the title is that unfair commercial practices are in the food supply chain. So we have to have records of our unfair commercial practices, we have to have records of what we've been doing so far and we need to know who's going to do it in the future. If you're a limp cat and you have 3.5 people together who are able to work, so what are you going to do? Well, now you won't even record it. One of the things you read under this law is that financial part and says AZTN has to hire six more people to even do this job, so it can do what's here, which is unannounced control. These unannounced controls, among other things, must indeed be for the reason that someone is keeping an account, see, someone can come to me and can therefore have the punishment and that ratio when you talk about an absolute amount, they should always be in relation, especially to these laws, in relative terms. The question is always all the questions, will you get those six people? Are you going to have people who can work right away? And you should always have in the light of the law how we're starting now? How are we, how are our experiences now? So we have a law in 2017, we have some experience, it's not those experiences that we're just reading in the media, it's the experiences that should be run, because we have some systems, some agencies, which is our problem, we've detected this problem, how we're going to get out of this problem, but unfortunately we can use this pay phone, point to it all together, but I often have a feeling that in one ear, to another ear out. So, I'll do it again and I'll emphasize it all the time. There is a plan, a European recovery plan, I am one of those who thinks it is good that Croatia is an EU member, it is good to be with those who are better than you, who are more systematic, but from them you need to learn and I don't think that this process is finished, I don't think it's perfect, I think that it should continue to be built and that Croatia can be one of which will build. The recovery plan for all countries must be delivered by 30 April, the funds may be used from 19 February. What have we delivered or what are we to deliver in the plan of the Republic of Croatia's recovery beyond the subject of the Crown? What we wrote about agriculture in it, and then we can read from it. And what's important about this law? [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35744	Thank you, too. Now we're moving on to individual debates. She's the first one. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35745	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Secretary of State with an associate, representative and representative. Unfair trading practice cancer is early Croatian agriculture and rarely because of such practices farmers give up on farming or those who would choose to deal with agriculture twice consider whether it is a good idea. Croatia recognized this problem, and I am proud that my initiative in Croatia was also passed by the Law on the control of unfair commercial practices because we wanted to put an end to such practices because the problem is huge and the traders and buyers should be legally obliged to respect those weak in the food supply chain, which are farmers. We have adopted this law before the adoption of the European Directive, a shift has been made, it is certainly necessary to admit it here openly, but there is still a problem that the Agency's report on the protection of competition, in which, according to a small number of applications, we can see that farmers feel the fear of breaking the contract by traders or buyers in the event of the application of unfair commercial practices and that we need to protect them more strongly. That it is a large number of problems we are facing we know that, but other Member States are also facing this problem. The fact that negotiations on the European Directive lasted a full term of 5 years, or 5 years, respectively. Because of the opposition of merchants and industry, it says enough that this problem is actually as big as a house. Since I was actively involved in this process as a Croatian euro parliamentary, I can indeed confirm that certain stakeholders wanted in any way to prevent one of these legal regulations from being passed and that things were placed under the carpet. Now we are harmonising this law with the provisions of the directive, it is important to accept that we can go beyond the directive, and the fact that this law regulates as much as 43 unfair commercial practices speak of the great creativity that exists on our premises when it comes to fraud. I'm going to say that I'm asking to add some more unfair commercial practices to this list, and above all, I think we should sanction the sale of products at a price less than the cost of production. Therefore, there can be no selling price lower than the production price, and this happens neatly. For example, the production price of a litre of milk is 50 Eurocenti, on our market you can find a liter of milk for 30 Eurocenti. A kilo of pork is produced at a production price of approximately Euro and 43 Eurocent, entering our market of pork at 80 Eurocents, selling at 2 EUR, and in the country from which it is imported it is sold at EUR 4 per. It's unsustainable. We see a similar situation happening with sugar entering our market and 50% lower prices. In this respect, I propose to supplement the law to sanction dumped and predatory prices, as well as to regulate the final selling price of a agricultural product which cannot be lower than the production price. I also see the problem in the condition of the purchase of reromaterials exclusively from the purchaser of a agricultural product with the exception of the existence of a certain product quality, which could also be considered an unfair commercial practice, and I believe that, with our already voluntary quality standards, we must also introduce those who, of course, will not interfere with the functioning of the common European market, which will help us protect our domestic production because similar standards are already applied in other Member States. Such product quality regulation would help domestic agriculture, eliminate one part of those imports. unfair competition, and I am of the opinion that the proposed unfair commercial practices need to be even more clearly defined so that there will be no manipulation in the future. As an example, they can provide an unfair commercial practice of cancelling the orderer of corrupt agricultural and food products within 30 days for which it is clearly necessary to prescribe that it is a total order, not a part of it. This law brings a series of improvements and a series of newspapers that I welcome, among them the possibility of unannounced controls, but I believe that this issue should be more detailedly regulated so that this article does not happen to be misused or that this provision is inconclusive due to the uncertainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35746	Thank you for your accuracy, but you have your replicas, Mrs. President. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35747	Dear colleagues Petir, and in your earlier debate on this problem at the end of last year, I was stuck with exactly what you started your presentation with, and this is a huge opposition that you witnessed within the EU institutions when this directive was discussed at EU level. Can you say more specifically, who opposed, how strong is the lobbying system in the EU, what was the answer of the Croatian MEPs, not just you, but others, that such a directive would happen in the first place, and how much within the EU we were really protecting our interests? Because it seems to me that Croatian citizens are either not aware enough, they are making at EU level and that we have a practice "who is stronger, snakes" there, so we cannot even get to have fair commercial practices precisely because of these objections. So please, if you can say this a little more specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35748	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35749	Thank you very much. So about 70% of the legislation adopted on a European scale, we need to apply to our legislation and therefore we don't care who represents us there, how we behave. I was the only full member of the Croatian Agriculture Committee and, in that sense, I have actually been together with Mary since the first day... who was then Vice-President of Parliament and now the Commissioner has insisted on the adoption of this directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am pleased that both in Croatia and before the European Directive, we have passed our law, because the problem is really big and in the European Parliament not only are lobbying groups that can register, so you have a transparency register in which all lobbyists must be involved and they must be fully legally present to parliament, listen to debates or address MPs. First of all, there were merchants, trade chains, buyers, industry, but I have to say that unfortunately some MPs, too, because we had a lot of resistance to these five years. right in the Parliamentary Committee on Industry. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35750	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Rose of the Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35751	Dear colleague Petir, therefore, I believe that you yourself are familiar with the fact that we in Croatia have had when we talk about dairy producers in 2012, over 65,000 family economies that have lived, produced and preserved this rural area, today we have only 4000 dealing with the production of milk. So do you think that, apart from the imports of products that were far more unquality and less controlled because we have already agreed with the EU, that such a situation has been contributed to by the rules on buying-in or the quality of fresh milk that defined the conditions for the production of milk to our OPGs that were far higher than those conditions that put countries in the environment? So did that also contribute to the collapse of this sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35752	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35753	Thank you very much. I certainly believe that manufacturers should satisfy the quality because it is important for us as consumers, but I think that, before Croatian farmers, milk producers also put a lot of complicated conditions, and we can say that this is also the case in meat because, for example, in Austria, you can have cattle and slaughterhouses in the same holding, which is unfortunately not possible in Croatia. So we do not need to run ahead of the ore sometimes when we pass some legislation but should consider in the long run how it will affect and what we can do. The dairy sector could be helped to control more strictly what comes from imports because I don't know what in that 30 euro litre of milk is milk and what water and what water is something else but it could be helped to implement animal welfare measures in time, which, unfortunately, was done when the rural development programme was brought in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35754	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35755	Dear MPs, you also mentioned sugar in your presentation, which was extremely intensely monitored on television for several days, but now there is no more news about it. It is interesting that these same sugars, which today complain that they do not have enough sugar tails, first they lower prices to producers, and then the manufacturers stopped producing sugar beet and now they have to close because the sugar beets are missing. At the same time, imports are reportedly coming from Europe. I've been doing my best, and I've been following it for the past few days, and I can see that sugar canes are closing in Europe. Now the question is, where does that sugar come from? Obviously, it's not from Europe. And when you look at the revenues of the Republic of Croatia, then you have no revenue from the customs on sugar, that means that sugar comes from the EU. Where it comes from and how it is possible that sugar can be closed and sugar... Is he coming? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35756	Thank you very much. First of all, the sugar crisis is shaking across the EU because the quotas have been abolished in 2017 and the market is free. The big problem is imports of sugar from third countries which do not produce by the standards by which our European producers produce because they use unauthorized funds for... in this production process, and you also know that their relationship with workers is not exactly at the most sustainable level if I may say so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This also prompted a number of farmers and associations to ask the European Commission to review contracts, trade agreements with third countries and to pay more attention to those who are now before the conclusion, such as the one with Mercosur. Therefore, when it comes to the closure of sugars over 164 sugars in the last 10 years, it is a serious problem, the largest producers are Germany and France and the fact that we are talking about dumped prices, and they are making imports at these unfair sugar prices in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35757	Mr. Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35758	Dear MPs,... from your presentation, above all, your practice in the Euro Parliament and in the very unfair trade chains throughout the spectrum of events across the EU, which is your experience and this law, I believe that it is good and whether it gives this initiative for further improvement, which is very important throughout this spectrum, which is happening both in terms of sugar and all the problems that are not only in Croatia, but is a problem for the whole EU and which is very important for all of our farmers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35760	Thank you very much. Certainly, unfair commercial practice is a problem in all Member States and if we listen to discussions and other colleagues from other Member States, they would hear that they have almost identical speeches as we do here in HS because they consider it a huge problem. Of course, in more orderly markets, especially older Member States, it is much easier to protect themselves because the market is organised better protected and agricultural producers are better organised, so they have greater negotiating power. I remember when I was a Europarliamentary then I went to a few Belgian supermarkets and I went to look at the marks in those stores for 5 basic products, so meat, milk, cheese, fruits, vegetables to see where they came from. Everything but bananas was from Belgium. This is actually the result that they have extremely well-organized farmers who actually floor, if we can put it that way with their feet in front of trade chains, they really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35761	Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35762	Thank you very much. Comrade Mariana, you have spoken of all unfair commercial practices and it is evident that this law extends the scope of the description of these detailed unfair events that are happening on our market. 10 new definitions and descriptions of these events will certainly contribute to better market stabilisation and to preventing these unfair actions. We believe that through all the definitions described on all these 3-4 pages, we are clearly talking about how we will still succeed with this law to further improve the situation on our market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35763	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35764	Thank you very much. It is absolutely certain that the existing law is already a major step forward because it has managed to regulate certain issues, and with this extension it certainly includes an additional emphasis on covering as many unfair commercial practices as possible. What I think is important, therefore, is that the description of unfair commercial practices adds that the selling price of the product must not be lower than the cost of production because we see exactly, for example, sugar and milk and meat, but also other products that come to our market, represent unfair competition, and I think we could still contribute to it in a way to prescribe the quality of the product where we would then define what, for example, I've already said several times, fresh meat that came from the slaughterhouse to the store at 48 hours, and then the dinosaurs that we sometimes find on the shelves would no longer be fresh meat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35765	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35766	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the fact is that in the production of milk, the self-sufficiency of Croatian production is only about 49%. As for imports of meat in the past 11 months, we imported some 5,000 tonnes of fresh Tsar meat, the question is how much health is there, and in terms of food we only have enough potatoes, cabbage and mandarin, and it is often thrown as far as we can see in the media because manufacturers are faced with unquality competition from imports. You are in one of your exhibits I recall saying that you will insist on changing the rules or regulations of imports to be about 48 hours from the time of production to that transport, which I ask you to further comment on how we stand with it. And the fact is also that practice shows that despite all these regulations, the state still does not do enough to protect our producers, we are still struggling with this unfair import. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35767	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35768	Well, I've said it two or three times, I think we really need to bring in those mandatory schemes besides voluntary product quality labelling. This can therefore be done on this example by defining what fresh meat is, and we can also apply it to any other product. I have studied examples of other Member States as they did. When you buy French meat, you know exactly what French meat is and no other meat from imports can compete with it, you know it was produced without GMOs and they clearly place it as a mark. We are a country free of GMOs, we have no production of genetically modified products or for experimental purposes. So we should also take advantage of our advantage in a smart way and introduce tests and label that GMO FEE, which would also give our products one added value.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35769	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Mira Bulja's debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35770	Thank you very much. Unfair commercial practice, I spoke on behalf of the club in part, and also through replicas, what I think unfair commercial practice is in Croatia a symbol, a symbol of the smuggling lobby, import lobbys, repeat within the ministry that suits of course foreign producers, and that is a fact. It's a fact and the main, the main culprits are here... They're from me, they're representatives of the ministries who didn't do their job right, of course, and we MPs carry everyone, we carry part of the responsibility. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is unthinkable for me to cry here over the fate of our farmers that we have destroyed, and at the same time, for example. Castelan greenhouses, which were European brand, world by the production of salad and other vegetable cultures, are now being closed by those who deal with the destruction of greenhouses, production, people who work within the production of them want to endure, the Tomas brothers are being expelled. It's in Kašteli near Split airport, at 14 hectares producing salad. What are we doing this for, and at the same time we're importing salad? A man who pays 30 workers, pays them, we cut him out. Also when we talk about commercial unfair commercial practice, so it's all against peasants, everything, except that we prescribe European directives. Someone explain to me why we do not want to introduce a ban on the use of glyphosate in Croatia? Somebody explain to me why he's pushing that we have to do this seed, autochthonous shift, pick up the peasant in the O.P.G.'s production? We must create a peasant who is competitive with our Croatian. We must have legislation so that the peasant is on the pedestal, not that the peasant is on the edge. So now we have the law in the procedure and we're talking about unfair commercial practice. Of course those who have soy, which they treat, which they import from Latin America, which is treated with glyphosate, where GMO companies essentially Monsanto and large companies push their products that are much cheaper and their products of course and meat, pork produced in other countries, which is cheaper than our pork. And that's the problem, the key problem is import lobbys within the ministries where we don't protect the domestic farmer. It's a key problem. Because we in Croatia are going to very close the grandmother who on... He raises onion domestically, so we'll punish it, right, and these smuggling lobbys that import unquality food and sell it to us in trade chains, they go unpunished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course it happened, here I said when I was on behalf of the club. When the trade chains appeared, from New Zealand frozen lamb, frozen, the triba was transported by boat, 10 kn. Of course, if this is the continuity of a year that people in a difficult financial situation will buy for 10 kn and the cost of raising lamb is 10 euros per kilogram of people who grow. And of course, so is pork. We have Dalmatian prosciutto, Slavonic tower, so as much as we can't sell our pork, all of the imported means what we import. She didn't see that pork or Croatian, so Croatia except in the truck when it passed through Croatia, she didn't see any Croatian food or production, and that's the problem. And when we talk about the Slavonia project,... I see the Prime Minister speaking to the project Zagora, Lika, G Kotar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do not pass it on to us down to the project Slavonia, you can see on sugar candies what you've done to the sugar industry and manufacturers who produce sugar tail. Is this the Slavonia project? So don't wave the flag with such projects in Croatia anymore because if this project were good, then today we would have not 10,000 ha but would already have a much, much larger number of producers over 30,000 as there used to be hectares. And what do we have today? We have a project called Slavonia that closes sugars. They're importing us from third countries, look. Who allows it? Import lobbys. The peanuts in the pocket and they don't care about the village. We have an empty Slavonia, this is a project instead of a project called Slavonia, it is a project to empty and shut down Slavonia. Shut down sugars, industry and sugar beet manufacturers. Under 10,000 ha and recently there were 30,000 ha. If these are the projects you're waving at, then we're not protecting the village and the peasants and it's gonna be empty. No strong village and no peasants, no strong state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35771	Thank you very much. You have several replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35772	Dear counterpart Bulj, there are no unfair commercial practices problems separated from the state, a problem concerning only the manufacturer and the problem in this case of the buyer or any trade chain. It's a problem that leads to a gray market and then we don't have taxes, we don't have normal business, and then the state doesn't profit. What exactly am I refering to? For example, here's what we're talking about, so it's our daily life, now we've had a problem that's repeated every year. And as far as I can tell, it's only getting worse. The problem of olive oil, e.g. I'm talking about olive oil that is catastrophic, which does not satisfy or satisfy the standards that should be, here was an extra virgin and is sold at extremely low prices which knocks down the price of our oil, which leads to us not being able to produce or place our oil on the market, only further distribute it through the gray zone from hand to hand So please... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35773	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35774	Well, that's it, so our quality domestic product Yes, thank you. [[Mr. Bulj, please respond.]] Our domestic quality product, such as olive oil that I produce in the Republic of Croatia, is of reduced value on the market. Because we're importing non-quality oil that has nothing to do with oil. Which isn't... olive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who knows what he's doing. And who's controlling it? Who's responsible? Who's responsible, Secretary of State? Someone from Mars or you? Or the Ministry? Who's responsible for this robbery and the destruction of domestic production? Who's responsible for not passing the GMO ban law? Products, plantings, transportation, purchases and shops? Who's responsible? We here, I gave you the law, you have it now in the procedure. Who's responsible for what the peasants are forcing to modify? making seed? Who's responsible? Who's responsible, I ask my colleague Djakic, I ask Deur, I ask you all, who's responsible? Who's responsible, who? We don't have the strength to protect these multinational companies from our peasants, but we're pushing their interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35775	Thank you very much. Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35776	Dear Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry. Your Honor, you speak and mention that the government is responsible that there is no production. Are you deeply aware that many farmers have received support, great support on the surface of support, on their throats, and there have been no support for production-related support at that time? And what did they do? They took the support, the money, they didn't produce anything. They even turned to importing those same ones that took the support. Is that why the government of A. Plenkovic and other governments are guilty? You can imagine in 2003 it was the government of the SDP when, however, I ended up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35777	Thank you very much, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35778	Dear Doctor, it's everyone's fault, so I said it in my first sentence. We've never given any more incentives and we've never produced less and never imported again. This coronary crisis is in my sentence when I gave in previous terms laws on the protection of domestic production i.e. to grow ecologically and clean, to ban GMOs, to ban glyphosate, to be our brand, domestic production, vervain strawberries, non-essential, head cabbage,... Onion, here's to my Sujac we have the best olives, let's say it's amazing at 400 meters in the back of my village in Sinj the best olive trees that have been awarded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's the first one, no, no, not the golden one, but the first one. So we have conditions, but to whom do we give incentives, that's the question, did he give the voters' bodies? The same way they're assigning pastures to a herd, they're not, they don't know what a cow looks like, and they get incentives, they don't know how many cows there are tits, that's my old lady I repeat. People get incentives, they don't see a cow, they don't get grass.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35779	Thank you. Mr. Sinisha Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35780	Your Honor, Vice President. A fellow representative, so here's the law as the basis for solving any problem, and then unfair commercial practices, of course, and the application of laws and controls defined in this law. So I'd just like to remind you if you remember Minister Romic? As I recall that minister was in the government of the Republic of Croatia, so the minister, along with you, was a representative of your party, a member of your party, also had no courage, as you say, to protect the peasants and resist the liberal market. For the first time, someone had the courage, and that's exactly what this government is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35781	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35782	So you know why we were very brief with this government? Did we not allow it to be stolen, to destroy the INA, to destroy agricultural land, to please foreign investors and lobbys, to forgive the concessions of the teleopers a billion kuna in 2019 alone, and not to reduce the cost of our citizens, not to destroy the peasant and the village, which is why it was. Well, for three months, he was a man minister and, technically, three more months later, you went to an extraordinary election, there were 12 brave people, and that people will recognize that there were brave people after a few months of fellow Djakic that we went to the election. And you went to the elections, and you called again, let's figure it out, you can use other chips as Bandic called, but not us, we won't help you, we'll fight for the village, peasants and justice, and you've destroyed the Croatian village. Look at the incentive, look at how Rimcheva was giving you incentives and who, look at his colleague Djakic, what he was doing. about the incentives, the subsidies and the misdemeanors... [[/Invader: Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35783	Mr. Miletić is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35784	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Radin. Dear Representative Bulj, two questions Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Microphone]] Two questions, so the first question of colleagues Bulj, let's give the Croatian public one more example, can Croatia feed itself through its agriculture, feed all its citizens, that's the first question, why is this not happening if it doesn't happen? And another question, what do we do today to safeguard the quality of food that we feed our citizens, since we know if we take for example. Some chicken, we hit it with a bat, it flies 30 meters away because it's full of just the least meat is it, so what do we do as a state to protect our citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35785	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35786	Well, I've only had the same case with pomidors, so you'll have to go after 2. when you leave in the house to play tennis with her freely and be much more quality than a tennis ball. You did it, you did it, so you laugh. You did not protect the domestic manufacturer but you push bad, poor quality food, GMO manufacturers who are being imposed on the market and through seeds. So you will be the same head of onions or chapels, so how will our peasant do so? We need to make the seeds. Why do we have to do it? Who's gonna pay for that? Who's gonna pay for that? So you aimly favour multinational companies to destroy Croatian peasants, targeted, and Croatia has its own area of as many as 700,000 hectares of unprocessed, counterpart Miletic, agricultural land would not be a chicken to feed on like a silicone plane around the house when you hit her with a bat. For years, you're afraid of geller flying around your head, rather than being a healthy organically produced chicken, popcorn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35787	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35788	Your Honor, I don't know what kind of protection these HDZ colleagues are talking about since... For several years, we have a large number of OPGs that are closed, a large number of farms that are closed, our farmers have gone to Ireland, Germany and there live, and there are normal prosperitys, and here in Croatia, agriculture continues to fail. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't know what's protected by that. But I wanted to ask you something else. At one point in your presentation, you mentioned a smuggling lobby. You were in a time after the earthquake, you were in a lot of Bania and you probably witnessed problems that were present downstairs when cattle were bought, cattle that were normally worth up to EUR 1,000 and even more were bought out by several hundred Euros. And that way, since the state didn't react at all, the police didn't react, and in fact those few producers that existed down there and destroyed agriculture to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35789	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35790	Well, apparently, the earthquake profiters at the most severe moments of the Banovina earthquake used that disaster, this situation that was catastrophic and bought something worth 10,000 kunas for 1,000 kunas less, and we all try to condemn it together. It's profit-making in the elemental accident, it's just war profit-making, and those people should be convicted, whoever's using other people's troubles that happened, and it can happen to us all, and God forbid something like that ever happens again, but we're always in front of a threat of any kind. That's why the problem of the state, the state was supposed to react immediately, protect that cattle when we talk about cows or any other cattle, but the state didn't do anything. So the profiteers took advantage of that moment and bought cattle for the change for the people in that trouble and trouble. And I call once again on the state authorities to question it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35791	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35792	Dear Mr. Bulj, dear representative, the crown was a great exogenous shock for the economy of the Republic of Croatia, but what the crown showed was that during the first wave and later, the large shopping centres were open, so that it could be bought openly from centres coming from Austria, Germany and other Western European countries while on the other side of our market, our plots where our maids, our dots and grandmothers wanted to sell their products were simply closed. Well, how do you view such one discrimination and what makes you think that our people can't produce our products or sell them? And the second question is, how do you see that we simply import everything in Croatia and the biggest export product is our drawer that is all over the world? Well, here's how you'd look at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35793	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35794	Thank you very much. In the crown crisis, other trade chains, multinational companies that sold their harmful products, and then finally, as if the prime minister had repeated me before, because he was saying that these are my soles, that we must self-sufficient before the corporal crisis, they closed the markets of our aunts, grandmothers, selling their products. And the trade chains were open. That's when I and my club Mosta were determined to open up the markets. Because first they were out in the open, the trade chains are in the closed. And that's a guess, it always suits foreign multinational companies. Trade chains. What is Croatia's interest? Not at all. That grandma can't sell her potatoes, her bow, that a potato can't sell, means import lobbys do their job and destroy small manufacturers. And any law we pass here, if it doesn't apply, then we basically have to tear it apart if we don't apply it. Let's apply the laws and respect the peasants and peasants on the forehead finally more at the head of being a village.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35795	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas, and now it's Mr. Nicole Grmoy's turn. Here you go. Could not close temporary folder: %s There was no record up there. [[Brubber: It was, it was, but it was good.]] Excuse me. [[And well, it's not, I answered, but well, it doesn't matter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35796	Here's a respected colleague and colleagues, so here's how glad I am that my colleague mentioned Minister Romic, who for a short time in a turbulent time was Minister of Agriculture, a man who wanted to change things, unfortunately, we now have a situation that the minister is afraid to come here before the Croatian Parliament, we can call her the freest Minister of Agriculture so far, it's usually the lady who has rebelled down the Neretva farmers, promised them the purchase price of the Mandarin. Now that she has become a minister, then she has accused Minister Romic, now that she has become a minister, she says it is impossible and can't be implemented now, given that we are part of the European market and what is most recent, we had her statement the other day that she is actually appealing and saying that she is appealing to our trading chains to try to avoid a situation where the price of sugar in their shops abroad is 30 to 40 times smaller and she stresses that there is a problem with these dumped wholes that this law that we have on unfair commercial practice is not a strong enough tool to solve the problem, but the system of respected minister, respected secretary of state, does not regulate the appeals and requests. Thus, the state does not function, the system is governed by consistent law enforcement, transparent control of law enforcement. We have a huge problem, therefore agricultural land, agricultural land hopes that in 2019, 2020, or perhaps 2021, the version of the law will solve the state of agricultural land, but problems create and solve people rather than papers. And that's what you don't understand, you don't want to understand. So we have one huge problem actually that the value of imports of agricultural products and their processing is constantly increasing. The value of agricultural production is decreasing so that we will not reach this value that we had in 2009 for much longer. Also, agricultural land despite all these announcements, the amendments to the law, therefore it is not resolved and abandoned, counterpart Bulj often speaks of it in the Assembly. Young and educated people are leaving and the rural space is deserting. And when my colleague Bulj says "we're all guilty". It's our fault for six months. And you, dear gentlemen, are guilty for 22 years, for 22 years you have led Croatia. I accept my responsibility as a minority part of the government in six months. but your responsibility for Croatia is 22 years, and if you're all talking here, if a colleague Petir is talking about the catastrophic situation in Croatian agriculture, in Croatian livestock, if a colleague Vukovac is talking about a catastrophic situation in livestock farming, it is known whose responsibility is yours, 22 years. And it will still be if the government lasts almost three years. It's your responsibility. And you can't share that responsibility. She can't be shared and counterpart Djakic is laughing, his Slavonia is empty, he is laughing at what his colleague Bulj is saying. He thinks it's funny because he's fine. He's fine, but the people in Slavonia are not well. The people in the Dalmatian mountain are not well, the people in Lica are not well. People, colleagues, Djakic, you're nervous because the truth hurts. The truth hurts you and you try to hide it with a smile and that's the result of your policies. You've moved people out of Slavonia. That's the result of your policies. You moved out, so people from Slavonia, that's the result of your policies. And...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35797	Mr. Grumoy, let's just not have any dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35798	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35799	Let's not have dialogues with, with, with, with MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35800	I can...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35801	You're talking, you're talking to the public now...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35802	I'm talking to the MPs and the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35803	Representatives, not one parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35804	I'm talking to the MPs and the public. My colleague Radin and your great responsibility is because you have been part of the ruling structures for a long time. And you are responsible for evicting people from Croatia and destroying Croatian villages. You have a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35805	Yeah, it's okay, but don't take advantage of the opportunity. Don't take advantage of the opportunity and don't talk to me because it's illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35806	You interrupted me, you interrupted me in my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35807	And I'll give you a warning if you turn around and I'll give you a warning if you turn again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35808	You interrupted my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35809	You have a warning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35810	So, don't take the law, it's people who do law enforcement, it's the government that does law enforcement, and it's your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35811	Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35812	Dear counterpart Grmoja, as someone who comes from a region that is abundantly rich in producers who are unable to find their place on the market what do you think the current Ministry of Agriculture has done to make it easier for them or better to say why do you think this minister is the worst agriculture minister so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35813	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35814	You know why I think that? Because there was a promise of something that was known to be unfulfilled. And when you give people false hope, people hope that their problem can be easily solved, and it cannot be easily solved, it will not be solved by one law, it will not be solved by a single regulation, it will be solved by a continuous state policy that takes care of our producers, the Mandarin producers, the strawberry producers, our cattlemen, not one law, not one law, not a single law, not a single law will solve it, but will solve a serious government. And this minister promised people a ransom price for the Mandarin, she promised them that. I've been listening to her eyes and ears and watching her promise and now that she can't go through with it, there are problems. Now we've got appeals, she's begging, but what do people have from her appeals and petitions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35815	Thank you. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35816	Thank you. Comrade Grmoi, in the Republic of Croatia we have until 2023. a moratorium for the sale of agricultural land, that's something sacred that we need to protect as a national resource. In Hungary, there is no sale of agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons. We have our fields set aside to imitate, not to prepare them cheaply for someone to buy them unsupervised. Agricultural land is the highest value, land is agricultural value. In the RH of a million and a half hectares, only 55% of all are listed, if you hear, 05. 0.5%, how much care is given to this resource, village and peasants, and therefore, our colleague Grumoj has 6% of the GDP of our evicted people who have spent from the village and the city, and mainly the village and peasants have emptied them and wasted them outside and are now paying more than the EU funds with which Prime Minister Plenkovic, of our evicted people, is missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35817	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35818	Comrade Bulj, this is not easy for the Prime Minister, he's not even here to defend, he's going to defend, here's the Yankee who goes to defend him, he's getting even more ruling. It mentions Minister Romic and after 2016 The production of cow's milk was 489,664 tonnes, and in 2019 it was 435,606 tonnes or 12% less. This is the result of Maria Vuckovic's policy, which was the secretary of state and now the minister of agriculture, which is the result of this government. So don't feel better about this today, you've ruined everything, you've put up with this debate, you don't just call the Prime Minister, the Government and the Minister. You see, you see, my colleague Petyr realized what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35819	Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35820	Dear representative of Mr. Grmoje, you come from the most fertile part of Croatia. Here she threw out one of the institutions in Croatia that we became one of the largest watermelons importers and the Macedonian watermelons, so I'm just curious here to comment on how this is possible with one opusene watermelon or meth? That's question number one. And question number two, so what's the general data is that here are the Italians and the Slovenians, so they destroyed the woods there in the Gorski Kotar which is actually our Croatian Switzerland and then this tree is exported to Italy and then it's being processed and then we buy these expensive closets. The way you look at it, and I'm asking you this because the Metkovci were known fighters against the Milks in history, so here I am quite interested, here you see that we can prevent it today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35821	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35822	We can stop everything if we have a responsible, brave, serious government. That's not the government. And we have a story all the time that everything the opposition proposes is populism, and the greatest populists are just them because we know they're all ready to promise just to get their hands on the authorities, and when they come to power, they don't spend anything. And this problem you mentioned means with the woods, I've heard that's the problem we have in Banovina. So a man came to me who was the customs inspector they put there, when he started digging a little deeper, they took him off that story, they took him off that case. So this shows how our government, how our country's institutions behave. As long as it is so, it will be the same in Neretva and Slavonia and Gorski Kotar and Banovina, so it should be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35823	Mr. Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35824	Your Honor, Vice President. The Honorable colleague of the Grmoy, so no one should be defended here, not least the government or the minister. But here I am glad to know that we must present facts and truths, but here I am glad that you mentioned the Minister, given that I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture, on several occasions from opposition members, of the opposition members of the Committee on Agriculture have come to commend the Minister, which, on a regular basis, let's say almost every session comes to the Committee on Agriculture and explains the laws. But here's the truth and the fact that your colleague Romic was a 10 month minister, not 6 but 10. He didn't want to change a bad law on favoring big players, bad land law, and before the ministry he was sitting on the board of directors, 4 g. in the Governing Council of the Land Agency at the time of Minister Jakovina, who passed this bad law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35825	Time. Thank you. We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35826	Thank you very much. A colleague was injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS, because of what is simply justified by the minister, and it is a shame that in this important law, the minister is not responsible for this portfolio in front of the parliamentary representatives and the Croatian people, it is a shame that this is not how she holds the HS chosen by the people. And that's the relationship and this is the attitude towards the peasant. Minister, the most important law, the Agricultural Protection Act... [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35827	Thanks, time and mandatory warning, you know that, no. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35828	Thank you, Vice President. ... Comrade Yankee, I feel like we're sitting on two different committees when it comes to the Committee on Agriculture. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I, where I've been to no opposition MPs, have praised the work of the Minister of Agriculture, at none unless you have parallel committee meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35829	I don't know, it might be true, but it's a replica, a reminder.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35830	Never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35831	And it matters, yes, because this is, because this here is the law. This is the law you're all breaking. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35832	No, I have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35833	Oh, sorry, you're right, you're right, you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35834	So he's learning a little slower, Mr. Yankee, but right here at the end, he was eventually denied from the opposition, so it's pretty clear that he didn't need this replica. And I'd like an interesting piece of information, you say, you say 10 months. So here we go, I touched the milk, let's take the sugar tail. So sugar beet production in 2017 million and 300 thousand tonnes, 2019. 700,000 tons or 46% less. 50% less sugar beet production thanks to this set of Marija i.e. Tolusic and Marija Vukković. These are your results, so I'm just taking your numbers out here. These are the results of your policies. Those are the results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35835	Mr. Zeljko Pavić now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35836	Your Honorary, it seems that, and from the ranks of the ruling, they realize that the minister is not good when she tries to get up with her failed spins, and in fact they bury her deeper and deeper. But that's not the question, I was going to ask, you said and we know for ourselves who is responsible for the eviction of our peasants, who is responsible for the destruction of our village, who is responsible for the closure of the OPGs, for the closure of our farms. However, the question arises, why does no one ask who is responsible for not charging and those poor farmers who have stayed and are working fail to collect their products, and the state is doing nothing about it. Why is it that the buyer is not obliged to give the bank guarantee to the extent that the bank guarantee can buy agricultural products, but that when the manufacturer gets its own money, and this one is later guessing with the bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35837	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35838	So we have a situation that the state in all the loops, the state has it everywhere, and it's not where it's supposed to be, just in cases like this where it's supposed to protect domestic production. We will continue to discuss the HOC today, and then colleagues from the ruling majority will say that our bill is too simple, that it is populist. Well, it's too simple, it doesn't have to be mandatory membership fees for either the HOK or the HGK. They protect HGK and HOK, but do not protect Croatian peasants, Croatian craftsmen, Croatian hosts, and that is, that is the problem. So the state is messing with where, where there's power, where there's interest, where they can capture their personnel, and where people need help, it's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35839	No more replicas, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35840	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35841	Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasdic is on his way now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35842	Fellow Members of the Assembly, Hegel believed that the mind ruled the world, while Leibric felt that everything in the world was going according to God’s plan because we live in the best of all possible worlds. Unfortunately, I am not sure by participating in the practice and creation of a legislative framework that greatly affects and determines our world and living in the same world as one consumer in the context of this law, I am not sure that either of these is true. But what is true is that there are certain causal chains that we can see at a wider level and discuss, which greatly affect both this law and what is the biggest problem, which is its implementation in practice. So for a moment, I will abstract from this concrete law to say something about this wider causal chain that brings us into an unspeakable position of the collapse of domestic agriculture of insufficient self-sustainability in which Croatia is today. So how's it going, what's going on? We have big agreements, it was supposed to be a transatlantic trade agreement, eventually Trump rejected it, but that's why we got CET earlier. We have such big agreements that are signed with transatlantic countries and Europe, which somehow tries to position itself on that wider market. It should be mentioned that Croatia is one of the countries that ran first, at least when it comes to an agreement with Canada not to be critically accepted, and these agreements bring what is one of the fundamental problems of the modern world, which is that large corporations may have more power than nations, states, or their rights are better and stronger than the rights of individual states, because they can also sue them to protect their interests, not to enter into the other details of this agreement. What are the key problems of these agreements that will also be repeated in the future is the introduction of different standards, mainly genetically modified organisms on our market. And that's why we need to protect that market. So, such agreements are signed, from that broader picture we come to the level of the European Union, which we have already talked about here, which is that of a colleague named Petyr who was there, where we have different lobbyist pressures, and also pressures within Parliament, certain parliamentarians, to protect the interests of the large ones again in relation to the interests of the small ones who can't even get on that list of lobbying, let alone afford to advocate something that will contribute to them. So from bad agreements we come to a failure to accept certain directives or bad laws, then we come to an ordinary small Member State, such as the Republic of Croatia that comes to some legal frameworks that are already conditioned to two levels of different pressures and not being able to translate these laws into practice. Well then such laws are such as to protect manufacturers, we should protect those small ones in relation to here, which is called buyers in relation to trade chains, compared to large ones, but when we look at them when we see practice, most importantly, we see that all the trade chains are wrong, that the biggest ones are always wrong and that the biggest ones are the last ones to pay, because they can again afford to process and their mistakes in certain courts, unlike those small ones who still pay their mistakes. So we didn't make it. Then we come to the problem of finally consumer, which on that market is conditioned by all these bad links within that chain that there is no, and at least Croatian product and which manages in a way that goes past that same market, because that, let's be realistic, is our reality. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our reality that a Croatian citizen cares about this product, because every Croatian citizen who cares about eating healthy and Croatian, will find, will manage in a gray zone, below the grains will buy and that is the only way for our manufacturer and our consumer to survive. It is a Croatian reality, the Croatian reality is that this legislative framework that should be better continues to be a dead letter on paper. And why is that? Because we are not enough, both within this Parliament and at the level of Croatia, to question all these practices that I have spoken about, which preceded what has come to our table and its ability to implement in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35843	Mr. Bull, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35844	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleagues that instead of promoting domestic products, domestic producers, to indigenous domestic products, old domestic products, old domestic seeds to promote, to be our brand, to be a tourist offer we are essentially laws, laws, essentially pressing domestic producers, OPGs and individuals in the Croatian village that they are simply not competitive. Here's just the finishing of this seed that goes seed law is disastrous, it's a nail, the last nail in the coffin of Croatian villages and peasants. To produce seeds in Croatian villages, OPGs that barely survive in these import lobbies, smugglers. And I'll tell you one more thing, the biggest culprit is the import lobby is inside the ministries, and that's why I'm sorry that there's not a minister here who's been tribaling to be here, not zha, but the tribal being here in front of the parliamentary representatives, but hiding, which is the tribal being, to answer here to Croatian representatives and Croatian village and peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35845	Mrs. Selak Rasudic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35846	I agree with my colleague Bulj, the OPGs we've been swearing all along, who were the most injured during the Coronal crisis, because they couldn't place their products directly or directly into the markets, are those who have something to say about this Seed Act if they said they couldn't and that seed was introduced from a farm that is nowhere else, and we see it well by other documents within the European Union, then I guess we should accept it. As we should at the moment, we should finally translate the UN Declaration on the rights of peasants and accept it within the Croatian legislative framework and introduce the peasants to their rights. But what's also a problem, when you're walking around in the land of Imot, etc., you'll see that there are some that also produce. Products and above all, you just have to ask yourself where their goods are going. Their goods are not kept inside Croatia. Those who are fortunate to produce well they and exports, and we come from third-rate production from abroad, and that is our biggest problem. We do, but not for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35847	Thank you. Mr. Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35848	We have seen the situation in Croatian agriculture best during this Coronal crisis, so when all the countries looked to have enough for their citizens, we have already been in trouble with certain products and it has proved in fact that the Croatian state with its agriculture, with its economy, is not ready to respond to the challenges of some major crisis and to God's greater crisis, because the question of how we would feed our citizens, because every country would, of course, in this crisis look at how there is for its own needs, but obviously it was not some kind of alarm for the rulings, Minister Maric then began to talk about self-sufficiency, but we see that nothing really changes, we have such drafts of the law, but unfortunately there is no such system policy. What does it take to change that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35849	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35850	We still haven't found any way, or rather, to protect our interests. If we ask what we should do, I am a supporter of putting a greater focus on what we are doing in the framework of the European Union, because if we look at what we are doing at the level of Croatia, at least here, most of this Directive or regulation are translated into a Croatian legislative framework. And what do our Europarliamentaries do? We have no idea, nor are we aware of how important their role is. Of course, there is the problem of the European Commission and alienated European bureaucracy, the fact is that we can't even influence how much we might want, how much power Parliament has at all, but if we want to do anything, then we need to work to strengthen our position within the European Union, but not on the principle level, how often the prime minister is misrepresented, but at the level of such concrete issues. There should be our strength, and then comes what we do at Croatia's level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35851	Thank you. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35852	Dear Parliamentarians. Someone in the discussion today mentioned here the need for long-term policies, strategies, both in agriculture and in other branches. I absolutely agree with that. However, I also believe that you will agree with me, that such long-term policies need consensus on both the ruling and the opposition. But how do you achieve this consensus when the opposition criticizes literally everything? Never admits, never says it's good. In this law I really think that there is a good intention and that it is trying to solve a part of this problem of unfair commercial practices. How with such opposition to achieve such long-term policies, long-term goals, because simply when a man listens to you it turns out that everything is black in Croatia, that the minority people here walk naked and barefoot, hungry and thirsty. Indeed, I think those attitudes could be a little bit corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35853	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35854	It's incorrect what you said. I said that this legislative framework is better than the previous one, however, the problem is its implementation in practice, so it is important to recognise a broader framework that affects the fact that this remains a dead letter on paper. And when you asked me for a concrete improvement, I'll tell you a few concrete suggestions. First, you have to stop pretending that opposition proposals do not exist and at the moment when they occur and when you decide to accept them because of media pressure, then you do not need to translate them as little children into your amendments, which your government once again accepts, but take the original form of the proposal that was opposition. Secondly, do not call the opposition only when you need a quorum, but call the opposition and be with the opposition when it comes to legal proposals that you are nominally willing to accept in the future, such as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so allow a single opposition law to pass. You're the ones who can send a key political message, if you want any cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35855	Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35856	Dear Representative Selak Rasdic. I would just like to return you to the end of the seventh month, or the end of the 6th month 2020, when you were one of the more active members of the Most, who you appealed to the Croatian government to simply extend the moratorium on land, since we waited the last day to extend the moratorium on our land, agricultural land, so that it would not happen to us foreigners and buy perhaps one of the few resources left in the Croatian economy and that it is sovereign, or that it is ours. And I'm asking you this for the reason that you mentioned some of the International Treaties, and I see that you are doing this globally in analysis, where, for example, in the Euro book, Professor Privic said that Greece had to change the duration of fresh milk from 4 days to 11 days, in order to open up an opportunity for the Dutch to import GMO milk into Greece itself. So tell me, do you think Croatia is ready for such global players as the Netherlands, since we are waiting for the last day to protect our agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35857	Thank you, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35858	We are certainly not ready for all the consequences of bringing the euro into the Croatian market and I think we should postpone it because we also have this legal option, and before we go into its non-critical adoption, we should open a public debate on what we are losing with the loss of monetary sovereignty. Because when we see what was happening yesterday, we talked about our financial situation of the Republic of Croatia and our state budget, so when we see how the picture of the State Budget for 2019 was created and how what was already in the debate was thrown out of it, for example, about the higher education institutions and contracts with them, then we know that it was already happening in the light of the potential, future entry into the euro area that did not allow us to have such raps behind us. So we have to go back to the beginning of that debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35859	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35860	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have spoken of a European directive that regulates the issue of unfair commercial practices, the way it was brought, I can say that the result that we have in the end, despite numerous objections, is a good directive, where we have fought and that Member States are able to extend one space, which is not so common, so that they can identify themselves on their own market problems and further regulate it by law. The law is now ahead of us, the scope of unfair commercial practices extends from 33 to 43 and what I think is now the right moment in fact to recognize all the malformations that are happening on the market and the problems and try to bring them into this Law, so that in the end we have a good act that will protect our farmers to the maximum extent possible. In that sense, it seems to me that it would be good for the Competition Protection Agency, regardless of what an independent body is, to be helpful, and not to explain to us how something cannot be done. I don't know what you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35861	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35862	I agree with you, and that's why I think it's a legal proposal that's certainly better than what it was, but again we're going to stay with that hole of what's going on in practice, like I said, let's be realistic, everyone gets on black, whoever can and whoever directly wants to be sure of the product that they're going to consume, and that's the end-user and this law, actually the consumer, who's not mentioned here. As far as the Agency is concerned, I'll agree with you that she says the problem is precisely what she has just indicated, let's say six more employees and came to what she said earlier that she would like, these are unannounced controls. 17a. However, these unannounced controls that can happen if it is justified to leave room again for some kind of hunting in the murky. What will be justified, and what will be an unannounced reason for unannounced control, based on what criteria? And when we see all the powers that those who carry out unannounced controls really ask themselves, are we going to improve practice or end unfair commercial practices or are we going to have an even bigger problem than we had before?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35863	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now the debate has Mr. Darko Saturday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35864	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today, at the very beginning, our State Secretary, along with the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Chain, but I dare say a small part of my colleagues and colleagues have actually kept the subject, so we have mentioned this legal proposal in relation to the applicable law, which ensures consistent compliance with the European legal framework with how to regulate the fundamental behaviour and control of unfair commercial practices and the scope of the address that is increasing, which is good. So we also mentioned that the coverage is actually expanding from 33 to 43 phenomena so far, we also mentioned unannounced controls that have always come in handy in this area. But what I do believe is that it has offered a large majority of colleagues and colleagues, and I must admit that I too am most pleased to be changed and complemented by this law, which, mainly which changes the scope of the products, and which are mainly covered by food or food products, includes both primary and unprocessed agricultural products. I believe that this is also part of this amendment and the addition of the law, and it has been offered to speak above all about the OPGs, that it is ultimately talking about agricultural producers. Now if we and the street were to ask someone about this unfair practice what it includes in the country or in the city, in fact, we would all answer more or less equally, mention large trade sides of chains, on the other hand, agricultural producers and OPGs. We would forget, in fact, that this food chain or not knowingly covers a number of other factors, but they would all be in some way solidarity with agricultural production, agricultural producers and OPGs, but of course also with small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with agricultural production. I come from a region where the largest food industry in the Republic of Croatia is, of course, “Podravka” and what delights all of us, and certainly those who are engaged in agricultural production that back in the last 3 to 4. It is this food industry that has returned, popularly said to farmers and has greatly increased the purchase of agricultural products, especially when it comes to the vegetable sector, and also to warfare, I am referring specifically to wheat, rather than to previous years. That's what makes us happy and that's what makes us all happy. Speaking to agricultural producers and OPGs, and those in this chain above all, I must admit that I have not heard any bad comments regarding, in particular, payments, but neither unfair commercial practices. Sure that every manufacturer tries to sell its products for as high a price as possible, it is normal, as well as on the other hand, that buyers or those who buy these products are trying to be in some reality and correlation. The happy and precisely new management of Podravka, which has, among other things, announced one turn and an even greater and stronger step towards agricultural producers not only in the area of the county from which Podravina and Prigorje come, but in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia, it is precisely that these products of our OPG and agricultural producers are in the largest number of food products of our largest food industry. I am sure that this is exactly the announcement of our food industry the largest in the Republic of Croatia, just as these amendments and additions to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices will be a cause that agricultural producers and OPGs are also turning even stronger and stronger towards agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35865	Time, thank you, but you've got replicas, Mrs. President. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35866	Thank you very much. It is clear that the issue of unfair commercial practices is a key issue that we need to address in order to help Croatian and domestic agricultural producers, and this law certainly is a contribution in this direction and we cannot expect this law to solve all the problems that exist. But when we talk about buyers and traders, we are most certainly talking about what comes from imports because the best thing that can be compared is what happens in the home countries of these trade chains, and what happens in Croatia, so it is very easy to analyze and it needs to be finished. Given that you mentioned "Podravka" what I would personally like to see "Podravka" as a domestic company in which the state has a very strong influence is more strongly positioned on our market in such a way as to buy more domestic agricultural products and thus ensure the market for Croatian agricultural producers What's your impression, is that possible? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35867	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35868	I thank you for this question. In fact, I have listened very carefully to your statements today at HS and I agree with all of your statements and it is clear that you have made a great effort here at European level and the European Parliament. I'm the one who mentioned it, which means three to four years back. Backwards, but the new management president has just announced the first, therefore, step forward to continue on an even greater scale towards domestic producers and domestic products. There's no reason not to believe it. So that announcement was three to four years ago. And it just happened. So, neither by chance nor by record purchases were exactly grain from Podravka company back in the last year two days that were used precisely in the products of our largest food industry. Yeah, I believe that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35869	Thank you. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35870	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Saturday, you've well described everything that this law says. I would just point out that this law defines that through these 10 covers that are described in it that clearly no one can reduce the quantity or quality of our manufacturers' products and clearly that standard quality must exist and standard quality. So far, there has been a practice of not paying 90 days to 120 days, and if you won't wait, if you break up the contract, you have nothing left to do, to reduce it to quality, to dysthetics, to quality, and actually the manufacturer didn't have any of it. This is strictly forbidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35871	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35872	I thank you colleague Djakić, I agree with everything you have said, but in fact it is also, and thanks to all those who have contributed precisely to these changes and additions to the resolution ministry. I understand your interest in this topic is precisely your county which in our largest food industry gives or supplies “Podravka” with the most vegetable products. So, and your concern right now I'm guessing it's tied to the producers of your Virovitica-Podravna County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35873	And Mr. Stromar's last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35874	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Parliamentarian, you live in a region where there is a large factory of food products “Podravka” and where most agricultural producers, here they have this happiness and don’t need to worry so much about whether this law exists or not, but in Croatia there are a lot of producers who are sure that this law will help to make them easier, simpler and cheaper to come to the market and to cover all the costs they have and to end up making something important and that they can live normally. You're lucky I can tell you how to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35875	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35876	Okay, so you're also lucky that "Podravka" is in the area of your county and that in fact also processing in Kalnik are those products that come mostly from the Virovitica-Podravka County from the Republic of Croatia, so it's precisely your place in the Varazdin County, so that's also happiness. But be that law and just like this good examples of our companies and businesses in the Republic of Croatia are incentives and invitations to all agricultural producers to turn to this kind of production where there is a safe purchase and where surely payment and sure, is a good price compared to others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35877	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mr. Ljubomir Kolarek's turn and then we'll wait an hour and start taking a stand on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, so no one gets damaged we'll wait until one. Here you go. A microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35878	As with other legal acts that we bring to the assembly by joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia must accept and apply EU legislation. I've written a lot, but I'll be very brief and clear because when we talk about the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, we could talk for two days, two nights, and that would never be the end. But I'll say this law is good. Why is it good? Because if we look at the area I come from, I would divide our farmers into three groups and explain how they work. They sell their smallest products on the payroll. Especially in my town, I can sell and sell on Tuesdays and Saturdays, and they always sell everything by 11 o'clock and there's no one on the payroll anymore. They're the smallest. The mediums that are already well-organised, and let us not forget that in Međimurje, and also in Varazdin County, we have the largest white meat production in Croatia, so in Međimurje we have 10 private slaughterhouses that distribute their products not only in Međimurje but also in Zagreb and other cities and they produce their products very well quality and good products. Also, they are the greatest means of co-operatives, but I won't, we can't forget, and I can't leave this one out that at the end of the 12th month in Ivanovec, that's the end, the place within the town of Čakovec opened a modern, most modern farm of pig breeding 2000 pieces in one tour, works man for "Belje" and never complained to me. It means he's well protected, paid regularly, and this law will protect him even better. So that works well. I can also say that there are no unprocessable countries in Međimurje, that we have agricultural producers fighting for every piece of land and no one will complain, there are problems especially, but I think this crown crisis may lead to some things in agriculture at a higher level. I believe that one quality strategy for the development of agriculture not only in Međimurje, Varazdin, the east of Croatia, in Dalmatia, but everywhere that if the strategy is well developed this law will see the right quality light of day and will be good and even better, and I think that a very big step has now been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35879	I've seen it before. Peovic first picked up the bat. Here you go. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35880	I don't think I'm the first one, that you've mixed something up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35881	Replica, yes. [[Clip intrusion: Replica]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35882	I raised a replica, no, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Something, you saw wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35883	Yeah, yeah, okay. So, does he have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? No, well, then you're done? [[/Intruder: No, no.]] No, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: I didn't]] You're done, you're done. Mrs. Devereaux. [[I'm done.]] Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35884	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, we both come from Međimurje and I'm glad you talked about Međimurje. I might actually be referring to what you said and somehow put a link to what is our common goal, which is to stimulate our producers, our farmers of the OPG, and to mention the term "organic production". We know that Croatia has a lot of helmets in relation to some other countries in the EU or the world, and we can't exactly boast that there are many eco producers in Međimurje either. On the one hand, customers would like as little as possible, and on the other hand, eco-producers know that there are certification costs, that there are problems which are both minor offerings and greater physical work etc.. As far as I've seen from literature, so the state is co-financed by the adoption of a certificate, but does it obviously not stimulate enough production of these eco-products, and then our producers have to manage, whether the stock market, as they say, is a food market, promotions via the Internet? Or events, what do you say? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35885	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35886	Well, I agree, organic production is very specific and I have to admit to the wonders of all the people who deal with organic production because customers are very demanding, they would like to get an organic healthy product for very small money. In this law is something, one shift is, but I have noted that with a healthy strategy for the development of agriculture that will come I hope on the table in HS as soon as possible that organic production will rise to a much higher level that producers of organic products would not, as you said yourself, have to wander around and sell their products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35887	Thank you. Mr. Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35888	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Parliamentarian, you were talking about markets where food is sold from small OPGs, from small producers, I would immediately join in and that in a way, I received a letter from the association of florists of the Ludbrew region. Namely, according to the Civil Protection Directorate's Office, now that the measures will give way they also pray that fairs can work from 1.3. and that they can sell their products there, and they mainly appeal to Samobor, Sesvete, Long Village, Vrbovac, Varazdin, Čakovec and Velika Gorica, so I think that you also support it to open up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35889	Well, of course, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35890	Sir, I'm sorry, sir. I have to give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35891	Thank you very much. If I may say so, here we would like to have a flower fair in the Prelog, and these flowers producers are our biggest guests, and that is one big income for them, and I hope that the florists, too, that the measures will be lenient as we read today, that from Monday they will open the terraces, and that they will also be able to come to Čakovec and Velika Gorica and Varazdin, and in Prelog and everywhere, and they will be able to valorize their hard work because it is not easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35892	Thank you. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35893	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Kolarek, through this law, I've already said a few times that 10 new definitions are within this scope to prevent these practices that are unfair and that bring problems to our producers. Thus, on page 14 of point 27 of the sales of productive and market-sensitive agricultural products at a selling price lower than 34% for the end-user than the end-of-sale price, including a reduction in prices in the way that the net weight of the product is properly increased without an increase in the final sales price. I think this is a very good definition which clearly says that so far it would certainly not have happened selling sugar on the Croatian market 50% cheaper than it is actually a production price or a competitive price on the world market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35894	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35895	Well, thank you very much. Well, as we discussed on the Committee of Agriculture for a very long time about the problem of sugar that there are some dectonic changes and problems throughout Europe because if we have concluded that the EUR 404 per tonne is some kind of lower limit of rentability, and today we go below 340 tonnes, then we know what time it is and what, what is it like, what is the entry. I will say the irregular entry not only to Croatia but to Europe from third-world sugar countries, and that this positive is positive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35896	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35897	So here I am interested, you said this legislative proposal would mean improving the situation in agriculture. I am interested in having someone from the HDZ answer me why 50% less food is produced today in all segments of food production than 30-40 years ago, and did such legislation increase food production in all segmental or reduced? If these are not policies that can increase domestic production and make us stronger and more self-sufficient because we know that we can produce more and that we can meet our needs for food and export.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35898	Someone who's from HDZ, you mean Mr. Kolarek that he.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35899	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague, so look, I'll be honest and honest with you. 30 and 40 years ago the industry was under our ankles, today 90% of young people want to work in industry and be their agricultural production by product. However, one rounding of production that must occur must take place throughout Croatia and one quality and one quality, I am already the third time repeating the farming development strategies where the profitability of agricultural production will be visible not only in good years but also in crisis years, and that will lead to a healthy debate on both the left and right sides of this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35900	And finally Mrs. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35901	Thank you very much. You spoke of the need for a quality strategy to develop agriculture while also talking about a pig farm near Čakovec which is very profitable and which has no problem with the placement in the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm interested in being originally from Sisak, so from Sisak-Moslavina County where in Banovina or Banovina there were large pig farms supplied by the then Gavrilovic, which is actually the reason that Banija is now so devastated agricultural producers cannot place their products, and let's say in Međimurje such farms are successfully maintained and placed their products. What should we in the strategy actually do to make it change to be even?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35902	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35903	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Nadj. I'll tell you the truth. When we entered the EU, we managed to leave all four red meat slaughterhouses in Međimurje, the meat industry that then had 50 co-operatives not closed, it was still working and simply by one entrepreneurial spirit it survived. Perutina Ptuj, Pipo today is also a slaughterhouse and Cocae in Varazdin, I don't know what happened in Sisak. I'm saying that Chakovec is 100 km from Zagreb and Sisak is 49. Was there not enough spirit, community I think I personally think that there was a lot of war left behind and It all went in another direction together. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35904	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35905	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here after the break we continue with individual debates and will be the first to be a respected representative of Stipan Sashlin. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.02 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35906	... Respected State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the problem of unfair trade practices in the food supply chain is currently one of the perhaps biggest problems in Croatian agriculture. [[Specially enabled.]] These amendments to the law seek to address part of the spectrum of these problems, i.e. so far recorded and known cases of negative commercial practices. Unfortunately, and with the best intention of these amendments of the law, it is unlikely that all the problems related to the supplier and the customer will be solved because simply new market situations are often used to impose largely their rules of play on the basis of those smaller ones. It is often the case that suppliers or agricultural producers often do not even report negative trade practices for reasons because they are simply afraid that they would not lose the ability at all to place their goods simply afraid to be resented with, with that large dish. One of the most common examples of negative trading practices is the return of so-called wastes or kalas or damaged or to say bad goods. It's a common case in fruit, in vegetables where large trade chains, after a certain time, invite suppliers to come and take over their goods that are broken, etc. And if they don't take it within a certain time limit, then they charge them even for the repositories or storage of the same goods, and often the deck is bigger and more expensive than themselves, the value of the goods itself is. Regardless of the fact that the law treats practically both domestic and foreign suppliers equally, one of the most frequent and difficult examples of negative commercial practices is precisely dumped prices and unfair competition that often comes from the EU countries. No matter how much we are part of the single European market, the question of the possibility of protecting or in some way protecting our domestic products is, in particular, those in which we are self-sufficient or self-sufficient. In this context, I consider it necessary to take a number of measures which, in my view, would be effective to prevent these negative commercial practices, and I consider, under one of the most important, the development and need to strengthen the exchanges of agricultural goods on the Croatian market. In this way, they would know at any moment which goods we have, in what quantities and if they are self-sufficient, if they are sufficient for the needs of the Croatian market to, in that case, protect themselves from imports of such goods. I also believe that it is necessary to connect small ones in a way to strengthen their negotiating position in relation to trade chains. As a third measure, I consider the need for legal assistance mainly to small, small producers because often they are simply not sufficiently educated, they simply do not know enough legal opportunities and everything that practically and by law is enabled this one so these contracts are often unarranged, ambiguous, can be interpreted in different ways and this causes often disputes in general I say again where small producers lose. By means of some professional organisations, chambers of commerce, etc., to try this legal aid as far as possible for small producers to be provided to producers. Finally, I believe that this law will solve a large part of these problems of negative commercial practices, but I believe that this is actually a long-term process that is likely to have to be re-.../incomprehensible/... because the fact is that 10 years ago we had far, far more negative these examples, today there are much less but there are still them and indeed we have to be in some way flexible or continuously working to prevent such negative commercial practices. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35907	Thank you very much, we have one replica, the respected representative of Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35908	Thank you. Dear colleague Shaslin, you come from the Slavonian village as I come from and means in our villages agriculture is one of the main and basic activities and we meet daily with small producers, so I wonder how you think it could improve or ensure and apply a negotiating position between small producers compared to large producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35909	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35910	Thank you for asking, so here's what I mentioned in my presentation, first of all, through association and integration, or in some way, the grouping of these producers who, as such, will, as a greater, certainly strengthen their position and improve their negotiating position at the beginning. On the other hand, a certain legal aid, or profession, must also be included in order to ensure that the more transparent contracts are made available. That's an example for you and for insurance companies where we've all had experience, probably where in those contracts you've written a few other pages that nobody usually reads, and then when you see it, you actually read it and you see that you don't actually have any rights. This is what happens to our farmers, our producers, warlords who know how to produce their goods, but unfortunately often they are not educated to sell the same goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35911	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35912	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. What are unfair commercial practices? Well, that's the most honest thing to do in the root, and that's the only thing that can help anyone we talk about today, and these are the producers, these are the people whose amendments and additions to the law go hand in hand. Preventing unfair commercial practice should be an imperative not only for the Ministry of Agriculture but for the imperative of the entire state, the whole of Croatia is anything that is unfair not desirable in society. I come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem today there were a lot of those who talked about Slavonia, some things, and in that Slavonia some of them were never, some of them eventually saw something on TV. If we want to help the Doric family, if we want to help the Vidaković family, if we want to help the Medvidovic family, then we will help them in this way, to prevent the unfair commercial practices of these people from falling apart. On the Agriculture Committee when we were listening to the 2019 report. We have heard or I have met for the first time that people who want to achieve unfair commercial practice are teamed up in cartels, it's a mafia notion and thus realize what is called unfair commercial practice. It's hard to get into these people's pores, it's hard to get into any of them at all. And what's going on? It happens that one of them becomes a penitent and thus eventually the Ministry and the Competition Monitoring Agency enters the whole story. So it's a mob organization, it's an organization that can't break up here from an HS pay phone, that's something we have to deal with systematically. And is it not good that the Croatian state is 2017 Before the European Directive entered into battle with unfair trade practices, at the time which Government? At the time of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, we are now supplementing the law to further strengthen it to be better, again the government of Andrej Plenkovic. But the worst government in the history of the Croatian state is Andreja Plenkovica, the worst minister is Marija Vukkovic. Why is Marija Vukkovic the worst minister of agriculture? There's a woman on every Agriculture Committee, and here I've had 15 or 16, she's been on every one. He's trying, he wants to be part of the story, he wants to hear what the MPs say the laws we're going to make are much better. Let me ask you something, do you know who Tihomir Jakovina is? E Tihomir Jakovina is a man for which the Croatian state will have to pay 68 million kuna in damages these days. And you know how he made it? He made it so that he abolished the quotas of Sugar in Virovitica, by his decision, the directive and said no, he will not get the Viro but will get Osijek which did not use those quotas and that will cost the Croatian state 68 million kuna. Now these are some of the two Croatians that always get intertwined here. There are no two Croatias, there is only one that must provide Croatians, citizens of the Republic of Croatia with a better and fairer life, that is the only thing they need. And this law, that is, these additions, changes to this law go into effect. There were good suggestions here, Mrs. Peovic said one good one, 12 people are small, there are few 12 people to deal with these problems we have. Of course there were other good suggestions, I don't know, Mrs. Bencic, we don't have the capacity yet, we don't have the freezers, we don't have the dryers, we don't have what protects the domestic product so we don't sell it when it's cheapest, but we sell it when it's the most expensive. That's the point, we have to work hard on it. And to speak here today that the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" is to blame for the loss of sugar, so please give it to me so it has nothing to do with common sense, with a healthy logic. The project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" is the best thing that has happened in the last 30 years to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35913	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coliga Ivanovic, it is very nice to blame the SDP for all the troubles not only of Slavonia but also of Croatia if you consider that we have been in power for eight years and how many HDZs. I'm very glad that you're talking about Slavonia and Baranja's needs and what we should do in Slavonia and Baranja, how we should keep it, but I wish you were a lot louder, not just you, but all the colleagues coming from these two constituencies, when the sugars went out, when it was in danger of the Maggle factory shutting down, when the future will be shut down when we question the survival of our people. Because if you ask the one who lost his job at the sugar shop or in Meggle, and there are many regrets, which are the results of the Slavonia project, you will be told. Because what's the point of a project that people don't end up living better than social homes and locker rooms, which is nice, which is why nobody stays in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35915	Representative Ivanovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35916	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic. I left this Slavonia yesterday morning at five o'clock, and I'll be back tomorrow at ten, and I'll be back all the time in that village, being with people, listening to what they're saying, what's wrong with them, which I, as a councilman, can help them get better tomorrow. I don't know who first went into the story of saving Meggle if it isn't Mayor Ivan Anusic in the space of Osijek-Baranja County, the man who invested part of the effort to solve the problem of Meggle. Let's not bring the sugar case as a key problem "Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem". That's not true, 149 sugar canteens are closed in the EU, Hungary had 11 now has one, we had 4 and one died during the Homeland War, 3 left. Let us not, in this way, and in such a very populist way, talk about a problem that is very complex and that cannot be solved in one minute by the speaker HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35917	Thank you. The next replica of the respected MP, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35918	Like this, I didn't say six people were little but I said that I doubt six would be enough, 12 or as many new employees, because the problem is that it can't be solved by law like this, or new agency jobs. And when you said first, too, this isn't so important if someone was in Slavonia, it might be more important to warn about the reasons for dissent, lagging behind, economic depression, etc. It was someone in Slavonia. But you said it was some kind of cartel, that it was some kind of illegal practice, that I actually have to deny you, so the world is ruled by huge monopolies, and those companies that rule didn't do anything illegal. So huge monopolies have been dealt with in different ways in history, but that's not exactly how it ends. In the history of British railways You've had nationalization as a form of solution. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35919	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35920	Here, thank you very much. I agree with that, but here we're talking about something else, here we're talking about something unfair. I'd like us to team up in something fair and do something fair. But those who join together want to do damage, they want to defuse their domestic producers. I said, here's Willy Matula sitting here, I told the Committee on Agriculture, so why don't we show any chain of commerce that we give in all the daily newspapers, on all the TVs and radios that he cheated on the Croatian people. I don't have any problem with that. In fact, let's say that the chain of commerce was fooled by 10 small producers from, I don't know, Baranja, Slavonia, Međimurje, Like, so let's put them on a pillar of shame. We put on a pillar of shame the craftsmen, those who did not pay taxes, why not put them on a pillar of shame, are they indeed a pillar of shame that we have the worst products in all the trade chains.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35921	The next replica of the respected envoy Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35922	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's Mr. Ivanovic. You've done a great job of apostrophe which the government first tackled with this huge problem of carrying out unfair commercial practices that it actually always has for the purpose of hitting the weakest. They're not some governments that used to be, and they had opportunities. After years and years where small producers were left to the market, finally someone stood behind them and you beautifully apostrophe that the government was actually the government of Andrej Plenkovic standing clearly behind them. It tends to say that the HDZ was in power most of the time, and the left government was only 8 years old. It doesn't really matter because even if they were for a month, it's enough how much they've actually shown that they know how to mess things up in agriculture and food production would be too much for them for a month, not eight years. You had a chance. And just for last, please, once again, I didn't quite understand this about sugars, quotas, so you can do it again if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35923	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35924	Thank you very much. I belong to that circle of politicians who do not measure their time by coming to a place but turn around and behind me and look who did what. This is true, with unfair trade practices, we may have started a long time ago. But it doesn't matter, the time is over, we won't make up for it, we won't bring it back. Now let's all go together and really try to stop at the end of someone's making us sheep whenever we get in the chain of commerce. As far as sugar, quota and all that is said about it, it is so much debated that everyone, especially parliamentary representatives sitting on either left or right, should really know everything. It is not good to scare a Croatian man, not to have firm and proven arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35925	The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35926	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I am extremely pleased that after days and days we have listened here from many to reduce the state's impact on the economy, increase the impact of the private sector, decentralised and flexible, and further subsidise the neoliberal rules, today we very often hear about the need for state subsidies and even one form of a planned economy where agriculture is encouraged and agricultural development plans. But it seems clear to many that these amendments and amendments to the law will not be made much, and that it will certainly not end what is called unfair market, commercial practice. Thus, such relations between large mainly trade chains and small producers are mainly the result of the absence of national agricultural policy. And this national agricultural policy, here many agree, should protect small domestic producers. So in almost all food categories, and I'd really like someone from HDZ to explain to me how that's possible, I'll repeat that question, in all almost food categories we produce twice as much as 30-40 years ago. For example, Croatia is far from 1956 until '71. It produced almost a million tons of potatoes and exported it very much, and today it has fallen to barely 150,000 tons, and it is similar to all categories. So almost in all categories of cherry, vegetables, meat, milk, milk, everywhere we have means 50% less production than we used to. It is closed sugar in Virovitica, Osijek sugar will fall as some say without a voice, milk production is at risk, and for years agricultural policy has ignored the importance of more intensive promotion of sugar beet production and under the pressure of a strong lobby from the old EU member states allows Croatia's sugar production to practically stop. Why are they shutting down sugars? So we can take this as an example and ask as a question whether it is possible to resolve unfair trade practices. The issues that are intended to be resolved will not be resolved by such a law because there is no objective mechanism for controlling such unfair practices. So I don't know, I think someone here mentioned that the fines were charged in total about 5 million kunas if I heard right, right, and that amount is really small, so the trade chains are really negligible. They can calculate to themselves that they will pay such an amount and continue with such practices. Furthermore, the mechanisms of control and the procedures that the law provides may actually cost the state much more than the potential benefits of these controls and procedures. Six new employees, meaning there's nothing they can do other than what we mean, except we're actually producing these laws that give some bureaucratic simulation to work on, to sort something out. So the law should really be called a skillful manipulation that seeks to create an illusion that something is being solved, but actually hides the core of the problem. And the bottom line is that Croatia does not have one logical agricultural policy that, given the green production and reduction of CO2 footprints among other things, could regulate price ratios in the supply chain as well as many other important issues that I will raise to two. So the first and basic thing that many have mentioned is a meaningful policy of prices and subsidies that can ensure these fair relations. Everything else means what we call unfair here is less important than subsidies that can bring us into fair relations in the supply chain or ensure that small producers are not valued by large trade chains. It should also be noted that all the rich European countries applied this system of flexible prices and subsidies during the growing agricultural production and stabilisation of the domestic food market. So not stable subsidies, but flexible ones following the market situation. In doing so, subsidies are important and we must also warn that they need to be flexible so that they are not fed so we say a clienteleist bar that does not help in any growth in production. So agriculture doesn't work anywhere without state incentives, it's one thing, and the other thing is the organisation of the growth of agricultural production or overcoming the current deficit that we have in all food categories and achieving self-sufficiency in the bar below 80% of the food in the next. Five to seven years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35927	The next debate will be a respected representative of Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, it's just music for my ears to listen to that HDZ lionish struggle for the region I come from. So indeed HDZ there, which would say in power in 4 out of 5 counties from the beginning of the world and you see how good the East of Slavonia has brought that we must even talk about the projects of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, that we need to talk about how to keep the young there, that we need to talk about the demographic, economic and socialally devastationed region. But good. I think as my colleague Ivanovic said everyone's actions speak for themselves, I think it's best seen on this. What I want to talk about, as far as unfair commercial practices are concerned, is not only in this, but it is generally our reactive nature. You see the Maggle is being saved but only when? When the public pressure and the pressure of the workers are unsustainable. Then remember Mayor Anusic that it is a factory that is by some miracle in his county, then remembers the ministry, then remembers the government. When it is solved, when it starts to talk about the problems of the processing industry with a moss located in the east of Croatia, so when a third of our sugars are shut down, a third of our capacity is shut down. But then it's too late, my colleagues and I, we're already late. That's where we've been fucking. And I'll give you an example of how. First of all, our sugars didn't have access to the entire industry's restructuring funds. Okay, what we did about it, nothing. In 2017, quotas were abolished in the EU, we knew this would happen. What we did, nothing. Do you know when? By 2019, when the ministry brings in programmes to stimulate sugar beets, and we have waited until now because only the ministry admits that these measures did not give a satisfactory result because the surfaces under the tail do not grow but fall. So now you tell me if we're proactive here, did we do something, is that hiding the genuine will to help that industry? But when we talk about unfair trade practices of colleagues and colleagues, we must not forget that we are on the EU's common market and that this is the problem of the Union's price. And here we are reactive because I have a feeling that our opinion, our position and our problems in that same Union that are not foreign affairs, European jobs are not foreign affairs, that our problems are not heard at all. And I find that fragrant. I don't know the secretary of state if you're going to a meeting within the Union or if it's going to be the secretary, but I didn't get a feedback from the Union to talk about these problems. If there were no representatives from all our options to understand each other, Croatia would have nothing to say about this. Well, here's the thing about sugar. So they restructured their industry, that industry has supplies and that industry can come to our market at dumped prices. Can't happen to colleagues and colleagues that if the cost of production is a kilo of sugar, I will now give an arbitration fee of 50 euros, to be found on our market for 25 euro cents, it can't be. It's unfair competition. It's an unfair commercial practice. And we're not just talking about sugar, we're talking about pig meat, we're talking about a whole series of other products mostly food and mostly agricultural products that we don't protect at all. And so don't tell me fairy tales to protect manufacturers, that here we are great defenders I don't even know what when we where we should say it the strongest, which is the EU we don't say anything. Okay, I'm not going to say nothing, but as a man who follows European affairs, and quite carefully, I haven't heard our decidated attitude, I haven't seen another one of our initiatives, I haven't seen anything from the executive power of zero, zero, zero. We are fortunate that in the European Parliament, we really have roundtables and MPs and I say that I do not only limit it to my political option but everyone who had anything to say about it and asked for alliances, and voted for conclusions, and made resolutions, but it is all for nothing if those who are most responsible for protecting not only the east of Slavonia but our production, our producers, and even our citizens as consumers do nothing
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35929	We have one replica of the respected representative of Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35930	Dear colleague. Do you think today's law that we are discussing in the future will be able to help or are it still topics that are primarily addressed at EU level? And I have to relate to colleagues from the HDZ who used it for one policy after all, substituting to other political options as far as who ruled. The fact that HDZ has dominated and ruled for decades in those parts of Croatia that are still the poorest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35931	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35932	Thanks a lot, buddy. You have summed this very simply, as you just said in five Slavonian counties, and now the fifth HDZ has been in power since the beginning of the world, so here we see what these counties look like to be among the most underdeveloped, even examples of underdevelopment in the National Development Strategy. As far as this law is concerned, I'm sure he'll help, and we were in favor when we first passed this law, and we're not afraid unlike this side of the assembly, to support everything we consider to be good, and what comes from them, from anyone. However, I again draw your attention that we are thinking too closely, that we cannot forget that we are part of a large market that is not just about our market and we cannot forget the fact that a lot of problems, especially as far as agriculture is concerned, are we also talking about the common agricultural policy of the sea and can be solved in Brussels because Croatia is not the only one facing this problem and is not Croatia the only country of this size in the EU, but obviously we do not know how to use our position and our membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35933	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative of William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35934	Thank you. Honorable State Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. I'd like to ask a question, and how do you protect the applicants of an example of unfair commercial practice? There's really no law on that. We've heard here many times that actually people who would dare to report it and who are bitter because they've just experienced it, that they won't dare because after that they're afraid that they won't be able to work anymore, that they won't be at all with that chain or mostly on top are these big trade chains. I think it's good to lower this threshold for those who are stronger than 15 million kunas of annual income, but we know that violent practice because we're proud of the force we possess, and it's kind of in our mentality to show each other violently, we think it's boldness and courage, so now I'm not going to go in on those under 15 million, but who are daily harassing people in the markets, and you know all about it, this is the least thing for positions, and so I'm not going to talk about it right now. But the fact is when it is said that it is also in Europe, here is colleague Hajdukovic said that in Europe it is the same problem, but there are professional associations very strong, cooperatives all over Europe except for us very strongly and those people when they perform together then have some chance to fight. Which is why I ask the question, you can see that the comments that are e-consultation styles that are as short as all these consultations for 15 days, that there were actually 35 objections, that there were smaller producers only from Neretva one association of manufacturers who appeared, and the rest of them are people who are concerned about what they will do if the agency enters them and then how long it will take and if it will be suddenly again the great fear that the law is against them. My colleague Peovic asked, I don't see her now, how much is the fact that in three years of existence that she of all of these items that were 187 had the status of irregular objects launched 36 administrative procedures only... at the end of 9 administrative procedures, to shorten in three years, there were 3 million kunas in three years, and of which the maximum penalty was imposed on one great international chain by a million kuna. I repeat what my colleague Bencic said, if we catch someone in it and there I agree with my colleague Ivanovic and I see him now Ivankovic, this Goran Ivanovic. This fellow actors and actresses are often forced, let alone those who are independent artists to record ads believe for very little money, for these huge chains that claim in these ads that they sell goods to Croatian villages. We know it's a very small, small percentage just to make this one accept legal obligations. But I'm calling on my colleague to really put them on a pillar of shame, so let's do it together with musicians who also record our folklore, which is then for these Croatian villages ads, for these big companies, let's do it together with this enhanced work of the agency, let's do some real commercials and pay these musicians and fellow actresses and actors honestly to embarrass on television just from those same ones who were shooting before the commercials for them. I'm asking you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35935	Comrade Matula, stay here for a moment. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35936	Thank you very much. You've talked about a lot, but what bothers me the most is our reactivity. So I have to do it one more time just to get a picture of it. The sugar sector is being restructured in the Union, billions of euros are being spent on it, we didn't have access to it, we did what we did before we joined the EU, we didn't. After that, we know that the quotas will be abolished in 2017, we did what we did, we didn't. Only in 2019 do we bring some measures and now we see that they have not produced results. And that's how we behave in every sector including this. So, unfair commercial practices exist, we pass the law which is wonderful and wonderful but then as you say in the implementation we fall. We are free of law and the best law if we are not going to implement it, if we do not sanction those who are engaged in unfair commercial practices and if in the end our citizens will not feel it just as in sugar which will not be felt by manufacturers of measures that are late and reactive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35937	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35938	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic, for having been on the board and we have discussed this, and the representative of the Croatian sugar industry is also complaining to us, firstly praised how twice as much severance is given than is legally necessary. If you go to look, you will see that the legal and severances that are.../incomprehensible... are miserable and those people who have lost their jobs in Virovitica and Osijek have received some miserable severances, but now that's the question I'm interested in all those who are here advocates of Friedman and Hayek and the clean market and I don't know it's waiting so as to imagine it, we've already mentioned without the subsidies of the farmer, but believe me, this representative of the sugar industry is asking us to pay him this pollution and CO2. So we have to pay for everything, but we can't touch it. in pure gain, which is their secret. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35939	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35940	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, Mr. Matula, I am interested in how you view the situation, so we have a market, this market has one of its processes that works, what should the state do to protect and should you protect Croatian producers? We have countries in the EU that are always somehow open to markets, mostly whether, but always somehow looking out for their producers, watch out if they can thus express themselves to their people under alleged signs. How do you look at it and what do you think the state should do here? What should the state do to specifically manufacturers here if we are talking about our country and our country in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35941	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35942	Thank you. Well, I think it's very simple. In our green plan, the situation is next. Let's make it, let's bring people together into energy cooperatives, which means that solar plants and wind power plants will be used together, not paying some investor or some Krš-Pared failure of variation and shame. And with that energy, we build together money from the EU, together because we can, build warehouses, build refrigerators in part of it, build droughts and start all that, and then people will use that power at the right time, go to the market if they want to go, if they can't last a few more days because they have their own energy and they have their own. That's our green plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35943	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35944	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is the debate on the Law on unfair commercial practice that we would not be discussing today if a European directive had not been adopted in April 2019 and we are now harmonising this law with that directive. 2017 written law which has not produced results to date. Unfortunately, I am not even convinced that the transposition of the European directive and compliance with our laws will make an important difference in the functioning of the i.e. in solving the problem of unfair trade practice because unfortunately we do not have legislation, we do not have those who would implement what is unfair and correct the injustice because large trade chains have taken over the supply of the Republic of Croatia and I do not think that this government, and I do not know who will have the strength to oppose these trade chains because it is then challenging the supply of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is tragic that agricultural land as a parent substrate for the production of agricultural food is building up every day, its price is growing unconstitutional, which could be under this topic, because we are getting closer to the deadline when agricultural land will be bought by foreigners in the Republic of Croatia who in developed countries and EU member states are significantly more expensive to pay for agricultural land, and Croatian agricultural land is one of the more quality in Europe because it is not as polluted as it is in the western part of Europe and so far indirectly pressured are our producers to pay more and more square meters of land each day to round their property and to produce. Our markets are dying, I'm not going to say they're completely dead, but they're dying because the malls have taken over the vegetable trade and what the farms are producing. 30 g. Croatian agriculture, meaning out of independence when we look back a little bit and those who remember agriculture as before and when we look at where we are today, because we had large entities that we destroyed, I'm saying that we Croats destroyed it no matter who, and who just watched, split the machinery, sold it through bankruptcy proceedings for nothing. Let's say one example of the Moslavak winehouse where the inoxes were cut off for 800,000 kuna. What do you think they were worth when they were set up? So that's how agriculture was destroyed, and then we allowed it to be destroyed through this unfair commercial practice by large shopping centres that their governments subsidized to open up so many shops in Croatia where they would normally sell their goods not ours, and the purpose of destroying Croatian agriculture in which domestic traitors helped them, they could say so, brought Croatian agriculture into a position that it lands like snow after winter, it's less and less, all people are leaving this. And just at this point our warfare is being saved by Italians who pay at fair prices, so according to stock prices, grains, they buy up all that grain, and that way they still keep the warlords alive, but I don't think they're going to last long, because one big earthquake that's going to happen on the market is going to lead us to total extinction and that crater part. We don't have Baby Beef, we don't have much and we're simply doomed to Western European shopping malls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35945	Thank you. We have multiple replicas. Stay here, colleague, please. We've got more replicas, so the first one will be a respected representative of the Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35946	Dear colleague, this is not true, or we cannot argue that as Mr. Hajdukovic here pointed out earlier that practically this government has done nothing to go too fast or to prevent these negative practices, I am mainly thinking about the current topic of sugar and sugar. However, counterpart Hajdukovic should know that there is now over 5,500 kuna there from Slavonia that this particular government has increased its incentive to produce sugar tails more than 50%, so that you are now currently somewhere over 5,500 kuna is a total boost per hectare for producing sugar tails. And agricultural producers don't, they don't have any major objections to these incentives. However, what happened at the world level or the world’s sugar trade has dropped below 400 and some EUR per tonne, no one can really, no one can ease it. They also joined together in order to keep their production competitive in some way, but simply some, some things, we need to be realistic in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35947	Thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35948	Comrade Shashin, I thought you were going to replicate to me...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35949	Slowly, my colleague, my colleague Lenart, the injury of the Rules of Procedure, it seems to me that we have from a respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35950	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35951	Yes, yes, yes, you will answer, but I alone must give the first word by procedure to whoever has requested the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35952	I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35953	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll quote the wrong article, but you'll understand what I'm saying, 238. And my colleague abused the replicas institute if he wasn't replicating the speaker, he was replicating me. I'd rather he replicated to me then when I was talking, so you could answer him, like I'm supposed to tell my colleague Lenart I'm supposed to rephrase my answer to my colleague Shashin? [[So try it, I'll go back.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35954	I agree with you, but unfortunately, unfortunately, I will repeat it for the third time, unfortunately it has become a common practice. I'm not going to give you a warning or a fellow warning, but don't do it all together. So, if we have something to say about it, there is an institution of replication, mass abuse, as the institution of injury to the Rules of Procedure is mass, knowingly abused, and therefore we have such discussions that last until ten o'clock, and we could do it all together much, much earlier and more effectively. The emphasis is on more efficient, more concrete and useful for our citizens, but everyone behaves as he thinks they should. Well, here you go, Comrade Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35955	Here's a colleague... I wish you'd replicated me, but one part I'll pull out of your replica. It's not just about this government, I've been talking about 30 years in my debates, about all governments, but the HDZ was the most. You remember very well how privatization was carried out, who spent it, how state agricultural land was shared that for almost three years the Agricultural Land Act had not been functioning, which we pointed out would not work, and we pointed out to this government through amendments and through debates. Nothing happened, now it's about changing the Law on Land, but the deadline for buying approaches and he's here and we're about to, and 33,000 acres from Agrokor system we left to the peasants, not to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35956	The next replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say something about the truth first, and then I will replicate to you, which is that the Croatian Government has made some measures to protect the producer of the turnips, but has itself admitted that these measures have been missed or that they are therefore not the result. If you have measures that don't result in what you've done? Nothing. And now I'm going back to the replica of you, a lot of measures the government makes, but look how machete it actually refers to the producers. Just look, since you're coming from this sector you know very well, fiscalizing the accounts with eggs, milk, people have invested huge money in machines that will now be able to throw into the trash literally. What's he gonna do? We keep making some ad hoc decisions, constantly changing game rules in the middle of the game, not thinking long-term, thinking strategically. Minister Tolusic promised a strategy for the development of agriculture only now we have seen it this year after nearly four years and how long HDZ has been in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35958	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35959	Here's a thank you for the replica. Well, we've had a lot of ministers and I don't know who I could say he's done something very revolutionary for the village and agriculture and for the development of agriculture. Many have had problems with this tail and sugars, here's the finale there's not going to be another turnip anymore. It's hard to be an agricultural producer, and I speak from my perspective because you can't even make a five-year plan to develop your property because what you said is an obstacle every day more and more. It's like moving on a 100m sprint with obstacles, counting on 10, but when you're in half, five new ones pop up and then execute you fall, rise and you simply can't develop normally because there's more administration than you should invest in a job on the property.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35960	The next replica of the respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35961	Your Honor. The crown crisis that is still going on was like that snow in the saying that it's not snowing to cover the hill, but to leave every beast behind, so what happened with the crown with the first lockdown, then rhythm and order of relaxation, and after the restriction of the measures essentially showed some power relations on our market. Here in this sense, when we talk about fair and unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, it is enough to just remind ourselves that we could buy in closed malls mostly foreign owned, while before our crying we were neat and entered one by one passing checkpoints as if we were entering some closed states. This small example tells us how much we lack the right autonomous policies, which in the first place will have a domestic producer, and unfortunately in our case we seem to have privileged shopping centres in foreign ownership, and this is always a matter of free will. And that's one lesson we learned thanks to the crown.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35962	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35963	Thanks a lot, buddy. So here's what you've noticed, and according to what I've been discussing, foreign malls can do anything, and even in the biggest lockdown, you can stand in Kaufland in three rows at the cashier's side without spaces, and you can't get to the market. My OPG has a market stand for 20 years and we've just been pushed out of the whole story because it couldn't work according to the schedule the civilian headquarters set up, just people gave up selling. And that's exactly what the OPG's discrimination was shown in relation to the malls that could say that they were the centres of infection and spread of the virus in relation to anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35964	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35965	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. You mentioned at the beginning of your debate that the question would you today be discussing this bill if it hadn't been adopted in 2019 at EU level. However, what you forgot to mention is that 2017 just before this directive was adopted and before being transposed into national legislation, the Republic of Croatia has actually settled this issue and adopted the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices. It would also be good to look at exactly how many procedures and decisions the Competition Protection Agency itself has made, what practice it has introduced, and to what extent it has actually positively affected exactly the things you have been talking about. So, I don't mean just here to collect administrative and penalty measures and now after new fines, but I also think that she was actually correcting everything in those cases that found it wrong or unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35966	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35967	I didn't forget to mention the 2017 law because you didn't listen to me where I said the law was passed in 2017, but that he didn't get a lot of success, so today we're implementing it. Since you're nodding, listen to yourself after the phonogram, and you'll see this, given that we're implementing a directive in our law today, maybe that changes something, maybe something changes. But the problem is again I repeat Croatian legislation, a judiciary that doesn't work in any segment or here. One small penalty for one big chain that will make 100% more than that penalty is no obstacle because their budgets are far bigger than what we scare them through this one law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35968	Thank you very much. And the next final on behalf of the club of representatives of MOST will be spoken by a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35969	Well, let's get on with the last question, see what we have to brag about. Of the 62 items, 9 administrative and 53 non-administrative proceedings and a large number, we do not know who and on what basis concluded contracts with suppliers processed by the agency to buyers and processors. Out of the total of 9 completed administrative cases initiated under official duty, 5 administrative cases were findings from anonymous applications and 4 were initiated based on market research. So that's all the success we have to brag about. Yes, even that small number of procedures that have been completed, which is incredibly small, comes mostly from anonymous reports, so much is the manufacturer's safety on the market, and only a small part comes from market research. Now we have a new regulation, we have unannounced controls that are expected to better conduct market analysis and thus end up with unfair practices. I will express the skepticism around the above even though there was an agency's earlier initiative to move proactively, and although there should be something that should be done not to leave everything on the back of the manufacturer who obviously has the only power of anonymity to report someone because they are so conditioned by different customer practices that they cannot dare to apply to those who impose these unfair practices. I fear that this provision, which should and should be the most positive outcome of these amendments of the law, will lead to that it too will be misused depending on someone's intention and depending on the arbitration criteria that as such should never be, therefore, we have legal frameworks at the end of the line, why it comes somewhere as an unannounced inspection, and why some place to skip. Because let's face it, if we look at who's been retired so far because of unfair commercial practices, then we notice that all the leading trade chains have received one-off penalties, that some like Sirana Gligora barely got away with it because then they had a profit of 43,000 kuna instead of 50,000 kuna, we've now lowered the threshold, so I guess that's not going to happen anymore, while some other big ones have run over. However, they have made it very far apart because they can afford to do so. So they went through further court proceedings to delay the payment of fines for the unfair commercial practice they had committed. And what do they do? So they do this to agree on delivery deadlines for more than 30 days, to agree on different prices, then let's say some large trade chains agree and that different quality control systems must be additionally paid to make it go to the manufacturer's harm or from his pocket regardless of what the outcomes of this research will be. These are all practices that are a standard part of business, let's be realistic based on what the agency has given us most of the malls. Will this really change by amending this law? He won't because if he could change, there was a framework before and he didn't encourage anyone to report anything. We can rely on the agency's proactiveness, but I'm afraid that this proactiveity is mostly going towards opening up a few more jobs, and the state administration is going to make it even more difficult, but if there's going to be any concrete results, I'm staying skeptical. I remain skeptical and because we were able to go to the manufacturer's hand in other ways, go to the OPG's hand, go to the hands of our own autonomous production. But we didn’t do it, we didn’t do it during the crisis as we pointed out here on many occasions which in the best way showed who can afford to be open and business and when no one else can. This law is going to keep everything going, and I'm still afraid of a dead letter on paper. And we will continue with that practice that we all know well, that it is not that we do not have good products, we may have the best products depending on the individual branch within the EU, but they will not remain for our market. Our market will be condemned to third-rate imports from the EU under dumped controls, at the dumped prices of those who have regulated their market and who can afford to compete on our market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35970	Thank you very much, we will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we would move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Penal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No 88 Proposer shall be the SDP Representatives Club based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. And 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed Peja Grbin on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Penal Code is one of the most important regulations of every country. Why am I saying that? Because it's a regulation that defines what our country's behavior is most strictly forbidden and provides for punishment. The penal law provides for the taking of freedom and rights of citizens and citizens of this country. According to the Penal Code, we can impose penalties that go up to 50 years old, but the Penal Code is also a law which, although we should always fail to do so, provide a kind of support to the victims, show that we care not only about that, not only to punish those who have committed some behavior, but also to show the victims that society is with them. The proposal to amend the Penal Code, which the SDP Representatives Club referred to in the procedure, addresses this second part of which I was talking about. With these amendments to the Penal Code, we want to send a clear message to the victims of a crime, a very concrete crime, a criminal offence of sexual harassment that we are with these victims, that we understand their suffering and that we want to help them. What we want to say with this law is that the time of the word has passed and that the time of action has come, even if it is so, even if it is minimal. And what exactly is this about? As you know in our criminal justice system, there are three ways to prosecute a criminal case, three ways in which a single crime can end up in court. One is a private lawsuit, this Assembly often discusses such a way of pursuing criminal proceedings when it comes to removing immunity because of slander, insult or similar behaviour. The second most common, most commonly known way to initiate criminal proceedings is by official duty, when the authorities of the repressive apparatus of the state react to the very fact, to the very knowledge that a criminal offence has been committed. Then the public authorities, the police, the DORH don't need someone to point a finger and say it, and it's guilty or it happened to me, it's enough that the public authorities of the police or the DORH in any way find out that a particular crime has been committed and they are obliged to act at that time. However, there is also a third way to initiate criminal proceedings, which is on the proposal. In that case, the victim of a criminal offence must address And here comes the problem, the double problem, on the one hand, we're looking for a victim's reaction which, in our still too patriarchal society, is very difficult to talk about this problem, and the other is a deadline. So, if you are in a situation like this, you who are a victim of a crime do not initiate an appropriate procedure within 90 days, three months, the criminal proceedings can no longer be initiated over that period. And there's no longer a question of age that goes on for years, if the victim doesn't respond in three months, the prosecution of the perpetrators won't be, and even in those situations that forced us to submit this bill when it was evident that it was a serial abuser and it was evident that there were many victims. Unfortunately, the three - month period had passed and the victims could no longer react or their reaction had unfortunately had to be rejected by the authorities. We want to stop it. Yes, the Penal Code should not be changed too often, it is too important that we intervene in it as anyone remembers, however, this is also an important situation and an important social moment not to react to it. The abuse, especially of women, because the figures we have indicate that victims of various forms of sexual crimes are mostly women, abuse of women takes hold. For years, society has ignored the problem and often, and we only remember a number of jokes, numerous stories, numerous inscriptions on new ones, and often the victim of crimes in the area against sexual freedom has been called and attacked more than the perpetrator of these acts. In fact, the perpetrators were once treated by certain social groups as heroes, completely unacceptable. As a lawyer, I had the opportunity to face victims and criminal acts of rape and abuse. Believe me, trust me, these women, because it was mostly about women, they had to get huge courage, enormous courage before they came to someone and once again convinced their trauma, and then once again because first they had to give a statement to the police, then to the DORH, and then once again before the court. And then if the criminal proceedings are repeated once and for again and again and again again and again and again again and again, without any certainty that the perpetrator who, as a rule, had to watch them be punished in the courtroom. We will not provide for or guarantee the outcome of a particular criminal procedure, that depends on the court, but at least we will facilitate its launch. We will facilitate it from that side that the bodies of the public authorities, first and foremost the police, and then the DORH, will be able to react already on the basis of the knowledge that something is happening, and not wait for the victim's reaction and second, we will be able to give the victims a little more time, a little more time to make the necessary decision to initiate such a criminal procedure. This is not a question of left or right and this cannot and must not be a question of left or right or centre or some political option. This is the only and only question of the relationship between society and the state towards violence and victims of violence. This proposal of the Penal Code is a small change in which we carry out a criminal act of sexual harassment according to our official duty and not only on the proposal must be a clear and first message that the Republic of Croatia is ready to face the violence that is happening daily and ready to take steps to prevent this violence, and in those situations when it is prevented it cannot adequately sanction. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to show you a number. So, I think we'll all agree that rape is like a serious crime, an act that by nature things should be less rare than the works of fornication, sexual harassment, etc. However, see the 2013 figures in Croatia, 274 cases of rape were reported, and 310 cases of other forms, minor forms of sexual assault from the area of sexual freedom. However, in 2018, instead of us as a society acting positively towards victims of violence and encouraging them to report the work that happened to them the number of rapes reported, always reported, and we know that the actual number is far higher, the number of reported rapes remained more or less the same, but the number of cases of other forms of sexual assault remained, it became smaller and fell to 250. So we in Croatia have more reported cases of hard work compared to less. For example, only an example works in Scotland which is comparable to Croatia has been reported twice as many sexual assault situations compared to rape, and the total number of applications is almost 10 times higher than in Croatia. Why? I will be free to say for sure not only because there happens 10 times more attacks and rapes, no, but because society has come to the stage to provide greater support for the victim and that the victim in that society is easier to get out and talk about what happened to her because then the victim will not come to judgment and will not, in the same way as too often the case in Croatia, have to relive everything that happened to her again, and at the same time be criticised, ridiculed and defamed. We can't let that happen as a serious state. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I could and was free to conclude that there is actually no one in the Croatian Parliament who opposes this bill. The question is only one, whether we're going to do it now at the first next vote, or if we're going to wait. And before you decide to wait and delay all of this, think about how many people in our society are going to be attacked, abused, disrespected, and how much of this delay will make it difficult for them to come to justice. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat this once again is a question of the relationship between society, the state, the Republic of Croatia and violence. This is a question of the relationship between society, the state and the Republic of Croatia to the victims. But given the proportion of women in victims of this type of violence, this is also the question of the relationship of society, the state, so the Republic of Croatia to women. Let us make a small effort, support this bill and ensure greater protection for our fellow citizens and fellow citizens above all. I think it's necessary that this will not create absolutely no cost for the state budget, but it will still ensure a higher level of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35974	Thank you very much. Does the Government's representative want to give an additional explanation, explain, explain his opinion? And we had replicas, I'm sorry I didn't see, but a whole series of replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35975	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the coat of arms, so with a series of things, we provide a picture both in and out of what country we want to have, in what country we want to live in. And that's the part of us sitting in this assembly, no matter what side of the assembly we're sitting on. There's one topic I don't think there should be a dispute on which side of the assembly is sitting, that's this topic. It's about a small amendment to the law, it's really a fact, but it's about one big consequence. The consequence of sending a message to the country you want to live in. The consequence is to show what we want. The consequence of the victim not being a victim several times. Because she becomes a victim of abuse and a victim of the system. And now instead of making it easier and making it possible because this change of law came from the experience we have. So, you've called too, and I'm using this replica to once again call upon the ruling that good thinking has the opportunity to vote for a good proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35976	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're right. With an existing legal solution precisely due to the shortness of the deadline, we are actually discouraging the victims of this form of violence to react and file a report. We discourage them, make it difficult for them, and by doing what we do, we make it easier for the abusers. We make it easier for abusers to do something that is forbidden for all of us in society because this criminal act is not a dispute. We're all behind the fact that this is forbidden behavior, but when we define how this behavior will be persecuted, then we side with the abuser. We want to change that. And I don't think there's any argument that we can change this right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35978	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35979	Dear colleague, and here is similar to that of counterpart Mrak Taritas, I will look back at the statement by Minister Ivan Malenica, who on 8 February in the media, so after meeting with the prosecutor for gender equality, said that a working group was formed to amend the Penal Code and announced that sexual harassment would be prosecuted in the future under official duty and that he expects changes to the law within a month, two. How, then, do you comment on this government's refusal to give a positive opinion on the amendments to this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35980	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35981	Thank you. Well, it's hard to comment, but let me just show you some sort of timeline. So in order for the Penal Code to be adopted, the first task force must do a job that will certainly not be done tomorrow. After that we must conduct a public hearing, it is the Penal Code that the debate must last 30 days. After that, we will have a break in the meeting as we always have because of local elections and the question is whether we will ultimately see this change that you are talking about, which Minister Malenica was actually talking about by the end of this year. And then multiply it by the number of abuses that happen every day, and then we know how many potential victims we're going to deny help. I'll do it again. This is simple. At least we all agree on this nominally. Then let's do it. For reasons I won't go in, but I'll say let's do what we all think is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35982	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35983	Dear counterpart Grbin, of course, that we will support this bill for a simple reason as soon as possible, the better, regardless of the need for modernisation as such, and that is one process within which the ruling majority is planning to change this as well. We agree that the sooner the better. But I'd like to warn you of one thing. As for crimes against family members and close persons, we have 14 victims of sexual harassment in 2019, 6 of which are male and 9 female. These are particularly sensitive criminal offences because they occur in the safety coverage, which should be security. And here we have, say, in 2019, a large number of male victims. Why am I pointing that out? Because I think the whole public and the whole system are completely forgotten. So I think we should send a message when we talk about victims by respecting the consequences of social roles. that there are perpetrators and victims before men and women. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35984	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35985	Thank you, dear colleagues, but I'll give you the numbers. I've got 2013 in front of me hasn't changed much, so I'll read it. Victims of various forms of sexual assault in Croatia were around 580 in 2013. I always repeat, always what's been reported. The actual numbers are unfortunately far greater. Of those 580 cases against women, there were 550. 580, 550, 90% that's a fact, that's not a fact any of us invented. And when we talk about perpetrators of crime both towards men and women and then men are even more involved. And that's also a fact. This crime, unfortunately, is mostly an act committed mostly by men towards women and sometimes by other men. That's why when we're talking I'm talking about sexual harassment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and protect women's rights. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35986	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35987	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grbin, of course support for this legislative proposal and what we all need to do and as a society, we here as the Croatian Assembly to make violence as little as possible, that those responsible for the violence more quickly respond to it and I am glad that you and other colleagues have said in the discussions that there is no division in the Croatian Parliament, although there was division, for example. as regards the Istanbul Convention, where those who are against supporting violence were claimed to have double standards and criteria for victims or cases of sexual harassment. We have a situation where certain names, for ideological purposes, or some clan accounts, come out in public without some names coming out in public. And it is up to him, of course, to take into account that no one is guilty until proven guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35988	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35989	Dear Mr. Grmoya, I'll start from what you said in the end. We had one proposal to set up an investigative commission just to determine where the girl's information came from. But as I said then, I will repeat and now in Germany such investigative committees are allowed to be set up because I guess he doesn't know what we know in Croatia and not in Croatia. In Croatia, these things are hidden, and then we are all disgusted when the information leaks, and often, too often, for political reasons, they are used in various situations, pre-elections especially. But that's another topic. What you said first, yes, there were certain ideological obstacles to the Istanbul Convention, but fortunately we finally voted on it. However, fortunately, the only thing we voted for was the death of a dead letter on paper. This law is a suggestion how to make what we ratified Finally, we start to apply in practice. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35990	The next replica is respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35991	Dear counterpart Grbin, you mentioned in your statement that the Penal Code is probably one of the most important laws and that it is not desirable to change it too often because of the sensitivity of the subject. But is he so important that he is more important than the life of the victim? I also ask the question here to all present parliamentary representatives and MPs whether the Penal Code and its frequent alteration are more important than the victim of violence, regardless of whether it was any unknown victim or any of the victims who were close to you? Are you sure your sisters and brothers or your loved ones today are deprived of sexual harassment? Don't be too sure because you haven't heard from them directly. How important is it for a fellow coat of arms to pass this very amendment of the law by an urgent procedure, and how do you comment on the government's refusal to do so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35992	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35993	Dear colleagues, the Penal Code is one of the most important laws, but it must not and must not be something carved into stone. Like any other rule of state, it must grow and develop with the growth and development of society. And we can't behave the same way we did 10, 20 or 50 years ago today. I believe, I firmly believe that in our social development we have progressed, and then we need to translate that progress into our legal norms. And here especially because we've seen in practice that it doesn't work. And when we saw that the law in the form in which it is now does not provide enough protection for the victim from where we stand, look, and not react. I don't give it to myself. And why did they refuse to support it? I don't know, I don't understand. I don't know, and I don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35994	The next is the replica of the esteemed Glamuzine representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35995	A fellow coat of arms, a similar issue as counterpart Ahmetovic. We got the government's opinion, their only argument is that, so we're thinking of doing it anyway, so why now. Can you explain to us why it is important now, while noting that the Istanbul Convention, which it requires in its Article 55, is in this assembly of ratification in 2018. It's 2021, it's supposed to be done already. Why do you have to wait another quarter this year or when they already said it would work, why not right away? What's the real argument that can be and why not right now? Is that as funny to you as it is to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35996	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35997	Dear colleagues, I'm going to have to correct you. What you said for me isn't an argument, for me it's just an excuse, but the argument isn't because it can't last any logical checks. If you're okay with something, if you think it's right, if we're going to help people, if we're going to protect victims of violence, if we're going to do it right, then let's do it today, not tomorrow. Yeah, that's an excuse. I'll say it again. It's an excuse. Is that an excuse because this proposal was sent by an experiment or for some other reason I can't answer that, but that's an excuse. However, I am sending a message to all my colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority. If the ruling majority has passed the law that we agree with, we support it because it is right for citizens and citizens of this country. our democratic culture requires that you act like one, and that is how we all behave. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35998	The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u35999	Dear counterpart Grbin, I'm sure you remember three years ago in the Croatian Parliament between me and they told everyone else because one part of the assembly was acting deaf so he didn't mention the Istanbul Convention at all, it was not pragmatic at that time, today he started mentioning, and on the other hand you and HDZ were standing up for the Istanbul Convention and now he would ask you a single question of what this convention had solved, and you were clapping on HDZ and HDZ clapping on SDP when it was adopted or when she adopted what she had done besides introducing what Croatian sovereigns and I personally claim birth to me in Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36000	Your Honor, I apologize, Your Honor, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36001	Your Honor, Mr. Grbin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36002	I thank you, dear Mr. Zekanovicu you, Mr. Stier and a few other speakers at the time I asked something none of you could answer, and the best thing is that you don't know now either. You don't know what gender ideology is because gender ideology doesn't exist except for one gender ideology. And that gender ideology is the patriarchate that has been pressuring this country and many other countries for years. Not to adopt this bill is merely the life of this gendered ideology, that patriarchate. And why we clapped then and why I stand behind my vote today for the Istanbul Convention because it was the direction of Croatia in advance. Another problem with the Istanbul Convention is one problem that is too common in Croatia. And the problem is that we go take a step and then stop. This law is a resurrection in practice of what we have undertaken as an obligation to the Istanbul Convention. These are the things the Istanbul Convention prescribes for us and brings Well, then let's make it happen in practice. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36003	Thank you. We have some injuries to the Rules of Procedure first, a request for a break, then a replica. Let's go first to break the Rules of Procedure. Honourable representative Selak Rasdic, who was injured in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36004	Article 238, the demeaning of parliamentary representatives, regardless of what counterpart Grbin thought of gender ideology as there may be a concept of gender that is a construct, a social construct that defines something as well as the concept of gender ideology through it, which is explained by something in society because ideology can be related to any concept, so at this point it points to those who find it in any convention to instrumentise one concept and its absoluteization.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36005	Thank you very much, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a typical replica, you get a warning. The following violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Nino Rasdic. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36006	Art. 238th Demeanor of MPs. There are us here in this assembly that we know of, we wrote and published and scientific about some important social and humanistic struggles and issues, so you can't claim that there is no gender ideology. We've already heard some arguments. The literature says that ideology is an idea that wants to be imposed and realised in practice. Science speaks of chromosomal xx, xy, sex is clearly determined. Rod is a sociological first structure which is then imposed in practice through legislation. If it's not gender ideology, then I don't know what that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36007	Thank you very much, you know that it wasn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica, you get a warning. Now, slowly, slowly, slowly, we have one replica and we have one break. This replica of respected MPs, and I'm sorry. And I'm sorry. [[Stinct from the bench: Stanka, break]] First break, first break, honourable representative Zekanovic, please. [[/Clip intrusion: Stanka goes first.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36008	Dear Vice-President HS in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, I request a 10-minute break to further consult this bill. Namely, counterpart Grbin is acting as if he did not read the interpretation statement adopted here in HS, which is clearly said that in this Istanbul Convention adopted jointly by the SDP and HDZ, the rest of the assembly you know which parties were divided there and kept silent who were watered. So he pretends he hasn't heard the statement that he doesn't know there's gender ideology in the Istanbul Convention itself. And what's gender ideology? It's Mr. coat of arms here's one simple way that you can be a girl tomorrow if you want and feel free to declare yourself a girl and tomorrow when you become a father, sit well with your wife and try to make arrangements whether your child will be a girl or a boy, a boy or a girl, have a nice sit-down and discuss how you will raise your child, which is going to be born. With us Croatian sovereigns there is no dilemma, so there is a sex that is male and female, and with you HDZs and SDPs and other undefined in fog, so obviously there is something third, there is something undefined, something that can be changed on a satanic, weekly, monthly basis. And if you claim that there is no small fostering of children from same-sex couples in Croatia, look at the situation where the parents' names from father and mother are deleted in the certificates and that in recent times we have a situation in Croatian maternity homes that mothers are no longer called mothers but simply parents as if a man can have a child.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36009	Thank you very much. Uh, according to the article. 239.b. We'll keep working without a break. Well, here you are, Your Honor, we now have this replica of the esteemed representative Jelkovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36010	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I really think that when it comes to protecting the victim from violence, we all want that protection to be as strong and as adequate as possible. However, what you yourself did in your speech, you yourself were in some way a contrast to that is that you pointed out that the Penal Code is one of the most important laws in the Republic of Croatia, and as a lawyer you know and you are aware that it is an organic law and that it is not opportunized to change it either conveniently or at any moment. Since you have been able to understand from the government's opinion that amendments to the Penal Code are under way and that the European Directive must be incorporated and that these amendments will also cover this amendment that you have proposed and that all of this should be made and entered into force. By December 31st, your charges are not at the expense of the government. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36011	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36012	Dear colleagues, I speak Croatian and I am quite confident that you understand me. Well, since I know you're as professional as I am then, and that you understand what the change I've suggested is, which I was talking about today. So, problem there is problem we can solve, problem there is problem we can solve choice is just whether we will problem that exists immediately or we will wait. And to those who, during the period ahead, will become victims of this form of violence, will make life more difficult and seek justice. The problem exists, the problem can be solved. Unfortunately, we of the opposition cannot resolve it alone, ruling you Problem is, let's solve it together. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36013	Thank you. He wants a government official to further explain his opinion? Yes, respectable State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice and Administration Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36014	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. A short time before the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice and the Administration already said that the working group working on a broad amendment of the Criminal Law is under way, given that it is a specific and current problem, but also a directive that must be interpreted by 31 May 2021 is a directive on the fight against fraud and counterfeiting in relation to the cash-free means of payment and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/413 whose deadline is... It means May 31st. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We decided to extend the amendments to the Penal Code and the new problem proposed by the SDP and the Ministry and Working Party Club by 31 May, so it is a delayed effect of this on three months. Also in HS, there was one thematic round table of the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of the national minority where we also decided to extend the issue of amending the Penal Code concerning Family Violence and certain current phenomena that emerged as a need for amendments to the Penal Code. So, as regards formal-legal reasons, the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the broad amendments and implementation of the directive in the Penal Code, but also the need for the Penal Code to still be completed with one expert, working and expert group working and meeting today, so we will accept this with certain amendments that you respected MPs and MPs have not proposed. So we suggest that, in this form, a brief amendment of an article does not accept this for the time being, and in May 2021. wider amendments to the supplementation of the Penal Code to mutual expectations will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36015	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark Tarritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36016	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. If we'd had that one bank of pigs and had put ten kunas in there for every time we heard it would be accepted, that a working group was founded, that it would be a complete solution, there could have been a new Parliament building after the earthquake, that's what we've heard several times. This is about an exceptional situation, it's about something that we really should be united about and send a clear message that it's really tolerance to any kind of violence zero, that we don't want the system to double-punish the victim, no matter who she was. And my question to you, isn't it at least a little awkward for all those women who are going to because we have a working group and because we're going to delay it a little bit, so we're going to get into some kind of situation, so very soon comes autumn and the end of the year, and here we are in 2021, and because of that system and that kind of system, they won't even be able to submit a proposal at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36017	Thank you very much. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36018	Dear Representative Taritash. If you've already asked me, I don't support any violence, and I believe that the Justice Department said that Minister Malenica would change this in a broader form. If we talk politically, you were a member of the Croatian Government in 2011-2015. In the government of Zoran Milanovic, the Penal Code and this issue did not arise yesterday, the victims of sexual harassment were also in your term, so I would also be uncomfortable not as a new representative but as a former minister asking me if it makes me uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36019	The next is a replica of respected MPs Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36020	Thank you, Vice President. So, the Honorable Secretary of State, in your explanation and explanation why you do not accept our proposal, you have stated that you will go to amend the Penal Code, but not now, you have stated the deadline of 31.5. If you stick to the deadline as well as with the Executive Law, I think that you will be writing home has failed. I'm asking you again as I asked you a question on the board, why don't you want to accept this proposal when you have a finished document? And one of the most prominent reasons is that the victims of sexual harassment have no more time and that it is necessary for the institutions to stand behind them and a firm legal framework that will encourage them to talk when they are ready and feel protected at that time from the abusers, only then will we provide safe and equal conditions for all victims in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36021	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36022	Dear MPs, we discussed this matter politely and professionally on the Committees of Justice and Law today, I said here only one brief amendment to the article where everything you said stands. So no one on this side of the government, the ministry is thinking of protecting any abusers, sexual predators, and I don't know what to do next. We've decided on a broad change, the Penal Code is an organic law he needs a professional public in that. I accept what you've said, but I'm saying it's about formal reasons where we need broader professional changes in terms of everything that stands. And I'll repeat, you're a new representative here, and I appreciate that, today you've put it well there, it's something that's been said in the Croatian political public and in the former governments, and we were then of the opinion that this was enough on the application. As time changes develops new crimes, new problems and we act so that it is wider, professionally and supported with a wide problem, and not just once so tightly though I appreciate everything you said, I have nothing against what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36023	The next one is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36024	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We understand that you too do not support any form of violence, that is where we agree, but clearly the promoter tells you that these legal changes require no additional funds for the mass. You have all of us here, we are allowed to vote within a relatively fast deadline. When this is going to be what you said, the 5th month, the 6th, the 7th, the 9th, who knows, what are you going to say as government to all those victims who are looking forward to bringing these legal changes to seek justice and actually make their lives easier, how are you going to look into their eyes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36025	Dear colleagues, the Government and the Ministry, I hope we all here protect all victims, all crimes, all abusers as minors, as sexes, as these, as those. Believe in the Ministry of Justice, and today the Ministry of Justice and Administration was sitting with SDP Minister Orsat Miljanic, sitting with us in the Government of Justice Minister Ante Sprlje, with us Minister Ingrid Antović Martinovic, a number of HDZ ministers, I say this is both political and professional and on judicial and on state-law and on various broader issues than is a political debate in the Croatian Parliament. I appreciate, I don't disrespect, and I believe that we will have quality changes and additions to the Penal Code with a broader procedure than what you're proposing today. So, we can go back to yesterday and ask why this wasn't discussed yesterday,...the whole time on the Croatian political scene was the government of HDZ, this problem, these abusers were abusers 30 years ago, and you are aware of these latest cases by colleges when it happened, Not three months ago, but years ago, years of life. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36026	Thank you. The next is a replica of respected Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36027	Your Honor, Secretary of State. I see you're very concerned that this law is potentially changing. You weren't so concerned when the Istanbul Convention took place that the Croatian state, according to what Dubravka Shuica said, cost a billion kuna a year and is obviously not effective. So, I don't see any reason for your concern. So let go of this law, if you could already adopt the Istanbul Convention and around it you had a consensus of all the actors in the Parliament either shriveled or clapped, and then do this nicely. If you have already failed to protect people first from domestic violence, let's try to do so with this law, I don't see why you have reason to fear or maybe it's a reason to adopt the Istanbul Convention and about other natures. Maybe there was a reason to be, for example. Introduces gender ideology, not to protect one from violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36028	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36029	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zekanovic. For years we have been discussing everything and everything, the political me and you disagree on the Istanbul Convention, today the subject of amending and supplementing the Penal Code. I believe that my concern is not personal concern but political will and desire to pass laws that will benefit either left or right, or these, or those, it doesn't matter to me. It's important to me that we protect the state's interests, protect all victims, have a quality Penal Code that won't change many times. So, the Istanbul Convention today is not the topic of this debate and we discussed it, you all said your views, we said our views, the government said its views and there is no more to be added or taken away.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36030	The next line is respected, and forgive the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Selak Rasdic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36031	Art. In 238, an esteemed colleague who spoke on behalf of the government hurt and disrespected his colleague Zekanovic and tried to impose his birth ideology because he clearly and unequivocally expressed himself as a man while his colleague called him a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36032	So this is how I ask first that we don't make a joke out of this Parliament. Secondly, you know for a fact that it wasn't any violation of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting the foundation of an article. The 240th century, 1st century, is a reminder that the word is taken away. We now have a replica of the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36033	I think my injury is too high because here today I have two lawyers in the family couple Raspoudić, so here's my colleague Rasudiæ said everything, thank you for defending me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36034	Look at your rules of procedure. Finally, don't come here. Read the Rules of Procedure and you'll understand what I'm talking about. He's a colleague of Zekanovic's. ... I didn't hear because a very unusually respected representative came here to argue with me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I won't give her what you should give the proper punishment. But please, everyone, please, who doesn't know the Rules of Procedure, and deliberately raises the breach of the Rules of Procedure, let him finally read this Rules of Procedure so that you know what you're talking about without wasting so much time here in vain. This is not what people have sent us and the citizens of Croatia to outwit us and that we do not know what we are talking about because we have never read the Rules of Procedure, we have not. Here's your esteemed representative, Raspoudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36035	Injury. Rules of Procedure 238. Demeaning of MP Rasdic. You've had a very tasteless run at the council, and I've heard you here, and your microphone wasn't on. So she came to you politely to point out that you were inexcusable to her because she had only one warning to give you notice while taking away the right word, and you were very tastelessly raising your voice, so we heard you loudly here, and you weren't on the microphone. I appeal to you to respect your position as chairman and to treat the ladies properly above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36036	Dear Representative Raspoudić, first of all, there is nothing to be discussed with me here, little, and please read the Rules of Procedure at last, so that you can understand why I gave her notice, and why I am the foundation of an article for you. In 240th century, I give the warning by taking away the word. Read what it says in the Rules of Procedure. We now have a replica of the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36037	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State. How important is it for you to sanction sexual violence or sexual harassment because how do you explain the delay in making changes to the rules already now if it is known that a small number of reports to the police or other bodies affect the work of the judicial and criminal system in carrying out the procedure, condemnation and punishment of the perpetrators? In fact, we have no information at all that something is happening and how widespread this public health problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36038	Dear MPs, I have information, I know what is happening, and it is very important that this is implemented and that the amendments to the Penal Code be adequate, broader, professional, acceptable and that we finally have solutions that will be in line with the time in which we live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36039	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. I would be happy to accept your argument that practice does not deny you because the law of regulation, from strategy to strategy, is what we are witnessing. Here's the thing that didn't work out, here's what we're writing, here's what we're about to write, here's tomorrow on your benches, and here's what I've been waiting for for, like, four years. That's another thing, but it doesn't matter. So, Minister Tolusic comes to you and says, "Here's a Malten freshie from the press," so I haven't seen her in four years. I don't know what that road is from the printer to here. If we're going to do this again for four years, two years, five years, then all this stuff that your colleagues and colleagues used to tell you is true. I wish you had the courage to support the good proposals that come from this side of the assembly as we support everything that's good that comes from the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36041	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36042	Dear Representative, we agree on a lot of things, there are common thoughts and you are young, but a parliamentary veteran who participated in former councils and you know how hard we tried in 2013 for amendments to the Penal Code and for 2019 about some changes. This topic that has emerged as a problem, we have seen how statistics unfortunately defeat us, we have seen how small reports are, we have seen how some cases appear from 20 and 15 years ago today, we have decided to accept responsibly the way that we need to change the Penal Code more widely, and there is no disdain, it is not a topic that would go beyond any political game of outwitting, it is a topic that we must together, professionally in one large, large-scale thinking of public thinking and bring a quality legal solution. No one demeans your proposal, and if you've been following the debate now, what I'm saying is no one has said that your proposal is not good. We said that in the task force we accept it and put it in broader changes in May 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36043	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you have announced a broader amendment to the Penal Code not only because of a European directive to be introduced into our legislation but in order to further strengthen this issue of criminal acts of sexual harassment through the Penal Code and in order for such activities that deeply disturb and insult human dignity to end. What I am interested in is whether you are planning through this broad amendment to the Penal Code also to include some phenomena that are increasingly common in our society, which lead to radicalisation, extremism, terrorism that we have witnessed in our places where members of various religious communities are called by different names, the language of hate spreads to them, the destruction of religious objects, and members of certain political groups are not considered to be people, so that goes to some broader discussions. which maybe the Penal Code should reach out to. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36045	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36046	Dear MPs, I agree with you completely that there are phenomena in society that are not good at all, and every call for certain distributions for certain groups of either religious, national, or sexual, leads to increased violence. We are faced at the Ministry of Justice and Administration with numerous demands, with numerous submissions and representations of citizens, where, on these grounds, people are discriminated against. The Ministry of Justice this task force is looking at the wider possibilities for such phenomena to be introduced in the Penal Code, because no one in this country will be allowed after 30 years of fighting for it to offend anyone, to share in diversity no matter what anyone thinks, what religion he belonged to and which party he belonged to. So today we say responsibly that we have taken a serious job, that we are aware of this weight, and we are certainly not the ones who are going to delay this problem. I say if we can politically list the 10 justice ministers so far, if we're going to do what we live and do today. and the time we live then we are now obliged to worry about the situation today. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36047	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed Glamuzine representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36048	Thank you. Mr Secretary of State, I didn't want to mention this to you so much, but when you mention that political dimension so much who it is when I do what I'm going to remind you that the Penal Code recognized sexual harassment and violence as a crime only in 2013, we don't need to mention now who wasn't in power at the time. This proposal now could be heard, suggested in 2011, and who wasn't in power then, I think the point is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36049	Please don't come from the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36050	This proposal, as we could hear, the whole opposition supports only Mr. Zekanovic is not sure, scramblingly fighting for his kin as if someone were threatening him. Please answer me in order to prevent you from accepting this proposal now in your plan to make another major change by May 31st, what would stop you exactly?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36051	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36052	Thank you, well-respected MPs, I appreciate and respect your good will and your political debate, I would not like to say something that might extend the boundaries of this debate and perhaps in some wrong context it is understood. I didn't want to count who was in power, but what's obvious is that in the years of Croatian statehood, many of the justice ministers were left to the right, and even some of your parties were very good and we cooperated well, we as an opposition had strong demands, reflections and over the Penal Code. So my answer to the question isn't that we're stalling. and we protect, we want quality law, and I also told you that professional conversation can be discussed, and may be political. [[Intruder: Please do not from the bench.]] Now that I've continued politically, you'd be offended, so I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36053	The next is the replica of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36054	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State from your presentation, but also from the presentation of the motion itself, it is clear that we are all aware that the amendment of the Penal Code is already in the procedure, that the working group is doing work among other things and on more comprehensive amendments to the law regarding the issue of sexual violence and abuse, it is 31 May. Therefore, no one here degrades the SDP proposal, and I think it is necessary to stress that if one government and one party ultimately showed their attitude and zero tolerance towards each type of violence, then it is this Government, and this is also evident from all the steps that have been taken when it comes to changes and improvements in both criminal and criminal legislation. Remember the amendment to the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, which we are in this particular issue of sexual violence rape, harassment done in 2019. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36055	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36056	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, and you have been a minister in the Croatian government and you know how much has been done in the amendments to this law and to the Code of Criminal Procedure, but also on these issues of domestic violence and especially the events that have been in the centres for social work, so the time in which we are living unfortunately problems, the coronary virus, the crisis that hit us is a certain opportunity for people to go beyond normal behavior. Unfortunately, in that time, many things have happened that fall within the sphere of crime. We have worked as a government along with the professional public, along with HS, with the parliamentary committees to produce what will be in accordance with time. I say, and the Penal Code is a living organism, today crimes are not the same as they were 15, 20 and 30 years ago. And if we're going to move this side to talk to someone who belongs to us, we've really done everything without any figure in our pocket that we have quality laws and that we protect our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36057	The next replicas of the esteemed representative Posavec the Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36058	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State Salapic, you are a longtime secretary of state, you are a longtime parliamentary representative and you know very well and know the procedures, you are primarily an excellent lawyer. Please tell me, specifically, when a task force has been established to amend the Penal Code, how many members are there, what are its members? Because you and your colleague Jelkovac today said she was in session, the minister announced its establishment for January this year. It was announced exactly a month after the SDP referred to the procedure for this amendment to the Penal Code. If we talk about such a demanding and organic law, will it be enough 5 months for the task force to draft a law, to conduct a public debate, and that by the end of the second quarter, we actually have that law voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36059	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36060	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, so here's when you told me that I was a longtime state secretary and attorney and a lawyer then, within what I believe to be a lawyer, that I should say, that the working group is working at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, that in the time I have passed the law, that we will in law incompose the directive that I have said, that we will put this as a criminal act prosecuted by official duty, as well as that we will extend certain parts of the crimes of family violence, and we are also considering certain proposals that have come from parliamentary representatives, who have come from the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on National Minority and Human Rights, so I am responsible and I have not come here to say something that does not stand. And who are members of the task force is a matter of the Ministry of Justice and Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36061	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36062	Dear Secretary of State, I will say hello to you for accepting the amendments to the Penal Code, so that everyone, all the acts of this sexual harassment of water by official duty, is also all that you have announced, the amendments to the Penal Code whether it is as good and effective as possible. But what I'd like to say is that you try to understand us, too. Since we have been waiting for the national gender equality policy since 2015, since we have heard from that same place several times "we agree with you", "here we are only doing it", "we are going to do it", "we have established a commission, a working group" or what is not, again, here I join everyone who asks what time do you expect these legal changes to be passed, or why do you not accept this bill that is one big step forward? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36063	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36064	Thank you very much. The honourable MPs, not to repeat, were numerous replicas on the same subject. This is not a question that a person can play politically with, especially because of the victims and because of people who suffer may suffer damage daily on this subject. I said by December 31st we have to implement the directive, we're working on wider changes. It is your right to have a different opinion as a representative of HS, but this is a subject as well as similar topics related to both juvenile violence, criminal acts, domestic violence and the like, which are very sensitive and these are not the topics with which we perform here in the assembly with any political figurines in our pocket. So, that's honest, I have to stand here in front of you and explain it. I also know what it's like on this side when you're a representative, where you're sitting, who you belong to and you have the right to your opinion, I appreciate and respect it, but also let us have an opinion on why it's within this time limit that we've announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36065	The next replica of the respected MP Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36066	Dear Secretary of State, you have been appointed to your place of work as a politician, have not been through a public competition, so you are absolutely invited to defend this position politically. So your political position is that you should not protect victims of abuse because it is not necessary to change the Penal Code immediately, but that is why you will do so in some future period. As I suppose a person with integrity I invite you not to go down to that level and don't call on some previous governments that could have done something, and they didn't, so why should you? I invite you to answer the question explicitly, regardless of how it bothers some MPs, are you aware that you may be depriving one of the victims of sexual harassment at the same time, looking at her, protecting her, and looking her in the eye at the same time?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36067	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36068	I know who I am and why I'm standing here, I know why I've spent a lot of years here, I know what the policy I'm implementing and I know what the policy you're conducting and I'll be polite to you because I've been following your candidacy in a party that you belong to with a number of your colleagues that I appreciate, I'm just going to answer you briefly and clearly, I'm responsible for my duty, you're responsible for your work that you do, let a different opinion on the same subject be so that we have the right in this democratic state to bring laws that will be broadly proportionate to all our citizens and to all the vulnerable groups. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36069	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, there is no dispute about the content of this proposal, and I think it's so good and it needs to be pointed out all the time. On the other hand, the government also argues that it intends to do so in the procedure that this is an organic law and therefore wants to avoid making such changes for individual articles but to make one change bigger which is already in the procedure and announced. I think it is important in the spirit of a constructive debate that, in this debate and the formal decisions that we will have to make to be clearly defined in which time it will be and not to have those restrictive deadlines as regards these crimes, so that they do not remain unpunished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36071	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36072	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you for putting the subject back where it belongs at the end of these replicas. Given your experience in both the European Parliament and here in HS, I think our joint mission of this government, this country, regardless of who was in power, is to pass laws that will reflect on all our citizens, regardless of who they voted in the elections. I believe in the good intentions of the promoter, I'm sure your intentions are not just politics and debates in this House of Commons but that our common intentions are to pass laws regardless of who is in power to be for all our citizens. And I have returned to the past because some former ministers in governments who have never heard of this subject have never said, and they belong either to men or to women or to this and to that, I just wanted to draw attention to you that the debate can sometimes go beyond these professional frameworks that all people who work hard, work hard on quality Penal Code, just because they are not members of the SDP but are members of the HDZ, which is not fair to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36073	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and will be the first to be the Club of Representatives of the Mosta in a name to be spoken by the respected representative Marija Selak Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36074	What might happen to someone who has 538 preferential votes, but at the position of power it was a funny joke or her attempt, is not even close to it, but is a figure called a reductio ad absurdum that shows to what extent the debate can go to if we absoluteize our own positions by imposing our own truth as the only correct one. How long did it take? 10, 15 minutes for this debate to turn away from what was supposed to be its measure and start arguing over whose political victory this is going to be. Let's not lie, let's call things our own name, this is a bickering over whose political victory this is, and it's not an accident because the very morally unquestionable topics that are expected to be a broad consensus because there is indeed a strong consensus on violence, sexual harassment and other inappropriate ways of handling are those topics that can be most profitable because they are unquestionable. Therefore, first-class topics that are exclusively manipulative, dictated, moralised and ultimately profitable in political practice. Ideology is a relationship to the world and life that enters all pores of society. Exactly the relationship between ideas and ideology is what distinguishes the authoritarian and totalitarian regimes because totalitarian regimes tend to monitor and private pores of society. He who appoints things, who is the bearer of concepts relating to the repression of violence against women, and thus their content is a moral winner who acquires positive political symbolic capital, thus becoming the one who is in a position to show those who refuse to use his termology as political inexperiences as those who promote violence against women, and it is not the first time that this debate on such topics turns into a political point instead of performing a metric. So let's not act silly as if we don't know what ideology is because if I need a location on it, I can give it to my education, but let's admit what's going on here right now, and it happens all the time in public space with a discussion about sexual harassment, less metrics, and more political profit. And if you really want to talk about the relationship of gender and sex once we're really going to talk about this issue is not at all banal, it's a matter of the substance of the relationship between spirit, between society as a creation of spirit and nature, and in which line it's emancipatory, and in which line it becomes destructive is something that we'll all believe in in the future under the invasion of technology, and we're going to have to debate very much. Now let me go back to the sexual harassment that should have been the only subject of all our conversations. I am afraid that this legislative proposal, which we will certainly support because it is right before and after, and it really needs to give up on its own political profit, regardless of whether the motivation for such a vote was right now also someone's political..., it is irrelevant for us. I'm afraid it won't really lead to the suppression of sexual violence in practice, and that's what we need to deal with and what we need to talk about here. Namely, but also these current testimonies, the ones that set off the avalanche, probably not all of them will be processed by the DORH precisely because of old age. If there are any concrete processings, then the question is also the biggest issue of each legal framework. It is not our imperfect laws but, first of all, their implementation in practice, in which way the judiciary will refer to the victim, will it wait again to prove in the criminal section a recurrence under other circumstances and after the fact that a criminal offence could be established at all, will this again be an easy circumstance for the perpetrator and the burdensome circumstance of the victim? Will any victim of those who have now decided to go out with their cases of sexual harassment really experience a judicial epilogue? That's the question that will show what we're onto with the legal changes. Of course, we'll support them. What we should work on, apart from this legal framework, and especially its implementation in the practice with which we have the biggest problem is how we really protect those who are victims of sexual harassment. After studying relevant scientific literature, I noticed that nearly two-thirds of students have no idea who to address in the event of sexual harassment, so there is no adequate, transparent institutional protection of victims. In that sense, I have advocated a clear protocol of conduct so that, at the time of enrollment in college, students are unequivocally given two things. First, who is the person I can address in the event of sexual harassment and the second person who is the legal framework that protects their rights. It is a small intervention that will facilitate the victim's reporting of sexual harassment, and at the same time it will be discouraged that it is the most important, prevention, to discourage the perpetrators in the doing of this work because it is not the same to hunt in murky when 2/3 of students have no idea whether sexual harassment has happened at all because they do not know what it is or who to address if such a thing happens to them and come to the university and know, it is that person, it is my rights. So you dare put your hand where you shouldn't. Another thing he wants to warn all over this media cacophony is that we are increasingly witnessing the process of institutionalising the media. In fact, the media is increasingly taking over the role of institutions, they see, process and judge criminal acts. The problem when media do so, unlike when institutions whose primary task it should be, is that the media has been subordinated unfortunately despite the effort and good work of many journalists to another logic, which is the logic of the market and the logic of instant clicks. So, because of this logic that depends on their wages and their work existentials, they will often place bomb information without it being finally checked, and in this situation when it comes to victims of a very sensitive act that is yet at all such, as a criminal act is not sufficiently accepted and understood in our society they can be double victimised again because their story will be dragged through different media, and then that victimization can be very specific, and not just psychological, because when their perpetrator is recognised, let's bear in mind that we have witnessed a number of anonymous reports and put different pressures on them not to come out with specific details of their story. So, it's a very dangerous process to institutionalize the media that we have and what else the DORH should process, first the media, and only then the DORH as a reaction, but in this situation which is particularly sensitive, we can experience the twilight of the victim's perception as such, so that it all ends when one mispublished information is exposed, that all victims are relativeized as such and even an act of sexual harassment itself. We need to be careful here to maintain the dignity of this debate and bring it back to the cover of the institutions that it belongs to. Therefore, as president of the Committee on Gender Equality, I have just advocated changing this practice that institutions are the last to be addressed by citizens. And I organised a thematic session of the joint thematic session of the three parliamentary committees, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Information and Media, which reached common conclusions in cooperation with all relevant institutions involved in recent cases of sexual harassment to prevent sexual harassment in practice and to create a more quality legislative framework. So I will conclude because time has come to an end with the fact that I am glad to see that there is both a social and political consensus on how we can make a better legislative framework. I just hope we finally show that it doesn't matter whose political profit this is and that we agree that in the focus of not our political victories, but our public actions are indeed victims, not points, and that we will allow at least one quality proposal to be more workable before later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36075	The next Club of Representatives is one of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36076	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, so we are talking about the Proposal of the Law amending the Penal Code, and with this proposal we want to resolve violence, i.e. we want to resolve here I will solve for all those who do not know what is changing, which is the proposal, who is sexually harassing the other person to whom he is appointed or who is before him in relation to addiction or who is particularly vulnerable to age, illness, disability, addiction and pregnancy, severe physical and mental disorders will also punish the prison sentence of 2 years. Great, I'd put in five years. So this is too much. There's only one question going on here, so don't mind my colleagues who brought this up, and what about the Istanbul Convention, here's what I have to mention. I was the only one defending her, and I am glad that colleagues from the MOST married couple Rasudiæ also joined in taking up the Istanbul Convention. What about the Istanbul Convention of counterparts? You adopted along with Andrej Plenkovic a document that was very thorough and that should have prevented this from happening in the beginning, so the violence should no longer be. Given the pomp and everything that's been raised around the Istanbul Convention and the huge funds that have been invested and on a major public dispute, I would expect there to be no more violence in Croatian society, absolutely no more. Not only is there violence, but there's more. That my colleague Grbin and my dear HDZ violence have more. And then why this Istanbul convention? Are we going to attempt to deratiate the Istanbul Convention as some countries do for reasons that it does not protect or is not an instrument that can protect women from violence or prevent violence, and we spend money like drunk rich people. I will repeat, according to what HDZ said, it costs the Croatian state and Croatian citizens a billion kuna, I guess annually, I don't know if that figure is excessive or not, but here I heard it in my ears, specifically from Mrs. Shuce. And then we spend this huge money, but we don't have a solution to violence. I will go again on this topic exclusively in the context of the Istanbul Convention because today it is very obvious why the Istanbul Convention was adopted. Not to solve this problem that we are trying to solve with this bill, but to introduce gender ideology. And gender ideology is there, everything is present. Here he made a colleague Salapic a lapus, a lapus lingue, I hope he's not celibate, so he made a mistake, called me a representative, not a representative. But that's exactly what it's all about, which I can actually at any moment according to the Istanbul Convention decide what I am. You too, pal Salapic, can be fluid, nothing, anything, so there's not just two storks, there's a million of them actually. You have, these breeds are very, very diverse, so you can change it on an hourly and minutely basis and that's what the Istanbul Convention is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36077	Comrade Zekanovic, we are talking about amending the Penal Code, not the Istanbul Convention. I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36078	Okay. Dear Vice President HS, I think if you followed me closely, and obviously you couldn't see the link between these two documents and why I'm talking about another document. And for those who have not understood, and for you, here I will explain. Both documents serve to prevent violence, to prevent and prevent violence. One document was in effect costing us a billion kuna, another document we'll try to bring. It is similar to that of the second document, or the first one that we adopted, that there are several other articles of that law, or those conventions that are controversial and were actually the real reason for the adoption of this document, and that is one clear link, and I do not see what the problem is that I connect these two documents to this single debate. So here I must point out that those ridiculous arguments by both HDZ and SDP and colleagues of the Grbin at the time Bernardic and Andrej Plenkovic actually fell into the water when you tried to make us sovereigns here from the right sovereign and conservative part of the political spectrum as those who fight for violence or advocate violence or defend domestic violence. Because it is you who, by one bad law, made it possible for violence to grow in the family. If you had listened to us and had had a specific public debate about preventing domestic violence, I am sure that Croatian representatives and the competent ministries would have passed some more over-the-counter law, some more over-the-counter convention to prevent violence, and I will even say this extremely simple bill that is too simple for one big party with a big reputation, which is SDP, is too much more than that bloated Istanbul convention that has not solved the problem of violence, which has been talked about. So, I'm gonna say it one more time to keep it this way in everyone's ears. Unfortunately, we won't have a consensus on this bill, and we won't have a hand like it broke three years ago. in this assembly, which is actually funny and weird, and this time I suggest to the HDZ colleagues that you both clap together this time and be guys like the SDPs last time and bring this bill together. And we sovereigns have nothing, no problem with this since there is obviously no gender ideology in this, unlike the Istanbul Convention in which it definitely has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36079	On behalf of the promoter, she will now speak to the esteemed representative Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, dear colleagues and fellow Secretary of State. ... would probably Shakespeare if he had described what his colleague Zekanovic said alive, meaning a lot of things about nothing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to counterpart Zekanovic, such a bill is too simple for one big party. Well, I wouldn't say that it's too simple especially for you, given that you obviously didn't understand the importance of changing this law because you looked back on an article that doesn't change at all, which is this article. Since you have only referred to one who is sexually harassing another person who is under his authority or who is dependent on him or who is particularly vulnerable because of age, illness, disability, addiction to pregnancy, severe physical or social interference, you will be punished by law until 2.g. That's not something we've changed, you said you'd give five, so write down the amendment. What we would change is next. Under the current law of a person who suffered sexual violence or sexual harassment 3 months ago, if we adopt this law, he may have a chance to report that violence. If we reject this bill and wait, unfortunately, for its sacrifice and its suffering will go into oblivion and for the rest of our lives it will be de facto or until the law changes can do nothing about this, this question and it is. And we've already had such cases, don't forget, at the end of last year, not wanting and entering at all what the procedure would show if these complaints of sexual harassment were in one important Croatian roof association whether they were relevant or not, which would show the whole process, but the fact is that persons who have declared that sexual harassment were not even able to report the same violence. So, Mr. Zekanovic, this may seem simple to you, but this would simplify and ease the lives of many women, that's the first. Secondly, I'm not surprised that you don't read the materials that come before you bench, and we've also seen that you haven't read the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, because in your anticampion against this same Council of Europe Convention, you'd be saying various lies, scaring the public, you and your like-minded people in a way that boys will go into women's toilets and vice versa, that boys will make nails, meaning what you used to do in that campaign, I'm giving you the right to think differently, and that you don't agree with some proposals, some solutions, but the way you fight in battle to fight for your argument, you should still be a little more serious and not a subjective, literally fake news that you've already had, that concept of fake news, the Prime Minister will worship him, because you don't use it as much as much as much as you do. The truth always, the arguments welcome but lies and deceptions, no. But you are going to see in this direction and today in this debate, this is not a debate on the Istanbul Convention, but we can consider the improvement of this legislative framework in the Criminal Law as one of the obligations that we have made as a state, including the ratification of that Convention, because what the Convention says, states commit to invest more in education in order to prevent violence against women and violence in the family, the second, to work on greater protection of women victims, to work on improving the legislative framework, which is also one of the contributions, and fourth, no less important, to take care of victims in a way to provide them with accommodation in shelters for women victims of violence, lines on which they can report the same thing. So I wouldn't banish these old ones in this way, our happiness if we don't have someone who's so directly concerned with violence in our environment, but if we don't have a case in our environment, such a case that concerns us personally doesn't mean that we don't need to understand the suffering of all women who may be suffering the same today and according to all the research, every 15 minutes in Croatia, one woman suffers and experiences physical violence, so at least according to the respect of them, I would pray that in this debate It holds as much or as much dignity as it does. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36081	Thank you very much, good afternoon, everyone. Please remain, you have replicas, colleagues of the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. The first replica is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36082	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Here I'll apologize, really, yeah, from a mile, just one article. which deletes an existing item, which indicates the erasure of paragraph 3. 156, and that's actually, yes, even simpler than I said, and I read wrongly, it's not that long but even shorter, so than you said. [[Subject Voter: Item.]] And as for the Istanbul Convention that you mentioned as well as I do, it's really beneath me every level when you try to make fun of it and redecorate it the way you mention toilets, male and female and fingernails, I never mentioned it,... You mentioned it 1000 of you, because you tried to make fun of it, when you were trying to mock the Istanbul Convention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear fellow Glasovac, fortunately, your parents had no doubt whether you are male or female, because they are reasonable parents, so with insight into your anatomy they concluded that you are a woman, however, according to the Istanbul Convention today some new parents will actually be able to offer their child to choose what is and that is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36083	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36084	First, you don't have to apologize to me for coming here for a pay phone and talking about something you haven't even read at all, but here, now that you know what this is all about, then support this law, so help women in a way that the violence of sexual harassment and abuse is being prosecuted by official duty and that there is no statute of limitations and no deadlines, it will be your contribution to this topic. And the other about these nails, boys and girls that you abused in your campaign against the Council of Europe Convention, so it wasn't funny to me at all, it was sad for me, and I didn't laugh at that at all in your antiquity, but I laughed at the same thing, and as much as I could, I exposed those pathetic lies of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36085	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Hrvoje Zekanovic, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36086	Of course, Art. 238. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I think you noticed that my colleague told me that I was lying, I told the absolute truth, the only one who told a lie here, and that's her, because I've never really been in a campaign for Istanbul or Istanbul Conventions, mentioned what she said, and you're fellow witnesses like me, that this convention hasn't solved the problem that you said would solve and that's violence in the family, violence against women, has not been solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36087	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Zekanovic, I know the Rules of Procedure, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, especially not an article. 238, all of you and the entire Croatian public. In 238, neither the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament nor any article mentions that someone must not lie. Unfortunately, he can, it's number one. Number two, I haven't seen the elements of a lie in either one. Number three, since I've just sat on this chair, I won't give you a warning, but next time you'll get one, be sure of it. Let's move on, we have the answer, I'm sorry, we have the replica, we have the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36088	Dear colleagues, we may have predicted a prominent key concept that makes this proposed change important. And that's the concept of power asymmetry to which the Penal Code is referred. So why don't you get old after three months? Because while people are under power, they don't dare, like the relationship of power is a professor-student, for example, the relationship of power is e.g. The chairman-in-Office of the Assembly, and the abuse of this relationship of power is to simplify, when you come and address the chairman to ask him kindly as I have done, and he treats you like garbage because it can be just as easily as the secretary of Bucharest for me, these are little psychological games. What about those who are in a system where they can't get rid of their relationship as long as they're part of that same system, any students, any employees? That's why it doesn't go out of date after three months, so it's only forever longer when people finally dare to report what happened to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36089	I'm sorry, the answer, you have to, excuse the reply to the replica. But before I do, I must say the respected MPs Selak Raspoudic, the man who is the person who holds the presidency here is not a parliamentary representative but is the vice president of the Parliament and the president of the Parliament, that is according to the Rules of Procedure, yes. So, he's a parliamentary representative such as the parliamentary representative and the Prime Minister, but he's the Prime Minister, and here the president and vice-presidents of the Parliament chair, and please don't go to people, there's no reason to call either the secretary or anyone else. I beg you, I didn't participate in this debate, so please don't take your word away, I understand your revolt, but let's refrain, let's wake up within the framework of civilization's behavior. I apologize, dear colleague Voter. Here's a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36090	Thank you very much. I apologize for not letting you give me your word, that's the same as a warning. My colleagues, Selak Raspoudić, yes, exactly what you said is necessary only for a moment to put ourselves in the position of the victim, meaning that if we are a student or a student who is being abused or mistreated by a college professor or a college teacher, if we are an employee or employee in a company where our superior or superior abuses us, clearly that at that moment not only because of our feelings of shame, shame, pain, undoing, wrinkled dignity we do not want to or do not have the strength to report violence, but perhaps at that moment we think that our existence is compromised, that we are at risk of work, and we will gain the courage to do so even when we get out of this process. And what will the existing law tell you? We're sorry, you're late, you're sitting there crying, it's been three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36091	Time, thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36092	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. Surely you're seeing that indeed the victim is she's the whole society that we all want together and see that you're very well explaining it, but I believe deep down that you'll be in the initiative of what the government is doing in the new law and that we'll understand all together regardless of the political perspective that what the government wants to do is that it's long-term and quality much better than what your club is doing today. It doesn't mean that you're not doing well, however, it feels like you've made a lot of effort and it should be respected and appreciated, but at this point I see that we all need to understand together and accept that it is the government that is now making a more long-term, better and better-quality solution. And another thing, is this Mr. Zekanovic, is that some new coalition of sovereigns and SDPs all over the dialogue you've been conducting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36093	Time, thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36094	This is what your coalitions with your coalition partners look like sometimes that you don't quite agree, but for some interesting reasons you're coalitiond, but we're not in that kind of coalition, nor will we ever need to be. Okay, you support this as much as I can see, and unfortunately this article of the law we will welcome in your bill only somewhere in at least six, and probably in a year, but okay I can handle it, but let's explain to that woman who wants to report violence tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in seven, in ten days, why she can't do it and why she's out of date and has to wait for the government to come up with to write that one sentence. You don't have to explain it to me, you explain it to those women that we're passing this law for. It's clear to me what you're doing, the problem is that he wrote an SDP or someone else, but let me explain it to those victims. Why not tomorrow because he'll be out of date must wait a year. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36095	Time, thank you very much. I'm asking you nicely, dear fellow vice president, just to wait according to a few points of the Rules of Procedure to give you my word, please. Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs. I think we all agree that there should be zero tolerance for violence and that we also have to make efforts to do more work on prevention because it seems to me that there is a key to avoid all the unfavorable events that follow. It is important national legislation and the measures that you have also pointed out that they should be incorporated into national legislation, and in that sense I believe that shifts will take place. What is to be said for the sake of truth, since there was one debate between you and your colleagues Zekanovic, according to the Rome Statute of international criminal law gender refers to male and female gender, and according to the Istanbul Convention, gender becomes a socially conditioned structure, which means that the choice can be made and that the right you receive by birth is not acquired, which is usually an element in every international law and that should then be taken into account in future discussions. [[Intruder Škoro: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36097	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36098	In Croatia, as far as I know before the Istanbul Convention, you were able to change in some way in your birth documents or you were born in one sex, but take the identity of the other sex if you want another gender and it has nothing to do with the Istanbul Convention. However, what the Istanbul Convention on why it mentioned gender is because violence is born conditioned. So the basis of some native inherited traditional, whatever roles you want to dominate in society, unfortunately women are more often exposed to violence, precisely because of these gender stereotypes, and that's the only dimension in which you've dealt with the Council of Europe Convention as such, saying that violence is birth conditioned, which, unfortunately, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36099	Thank you very much. Let's move on, thank you that'll be all, we've exhausted the replicas. Let's move on with the debates on behalf of the club, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the respected representative Katarina Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36100	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The IDS representative club supports the adoption of this amendment to the Penal Code in order to allow the criminal act of sexual harassment to be prosecuted under official duty in all circumstances, and not only exceptional, as it is under the applicable legal provisions. The amendment of the law is necessary because in the way that it is now prescribed. Versus 156. Penal Code, related to Art. 47. The law on criminal proceedings, victims of sexual harassment in most cases, has a deadline of only 3 months to submit a proposal to prosecute the perpetrator, which is an unnecessary time limit imposed on victims of sexual harassment and, in fact, ultimately, goes to the benefit of the abuser. The testimony of persons who have suffered sexual harassment, victims are mostly female, reveal that sexual harassment often occurs in educational institutions and workplaces, or in circumstances where the victim is often hierarchically subordinated to the abuser. In such circumstances, it is very difficult for women to decide within a short period of time whether to report the perpetrator and refer him to criminal proceedings because he carries a number of unpleasant consequences for the victim himself, from possible convictions of the environment and primitive comments, and even from the fear of the workplace, if he objects to the authorities who disturb them. When reporting to the perpetrators of these crimes in today’s society, the victim must collect a great personal courage to decide at all on this step and therefore act as an additional burden on her within 3 months. Speaking of the deadline, the question arises whether anyone thinks that a woman who was a victim of sexual harassment will forget about it after 3 months and that she will be able to live as if nothing had happened. This shows that the applicable law does not care at all about the sacrifice or the consequences that it has to live with later. On the other hand, the perpetrator is thus amnested from the consequences of the action he has committed because the application filed against him after 3 months will be rejected. Once again, there are all the indifferences and injustices of our legal system. Therefore, it is not acceptable for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to accept this bill. The government even states that, as part of future amendments to the Penal Code, it will go in the direction of abolishing criminal prosecution on the basis of a proposal for this criminal offence and that criminal prosecution will be imposed by official duty, means precisely in the direction in which today's bill is going, but for some reasons, the government does not want to accept it. The law ahead of us should become a point of merger and consensus of all political options in the Assembly, in order to send citizens several important messages. First, that sexual harassment in Croatia no longer passes and that the state will punish abusers more seriously than before. And secondly, there is enough wisdom and political will in the House to pass a quality law, regardless of whether it is proposed by the government or proposed by someone in opposition. The fact is that only criminal law and criminal sanctions will not solve the problem of sexual harassment and that we must also work seriously on youth education, prevention and, in general, on the social condemnation of all abusers. Even at the age of growing up and schooling, young people must have the opportunity to speak openly and discuss these topics and have the support and understanding of adults, not to receive superficial and inappropriate comments and underestimating the problem of sexual harassment. However, in all those cases when education and education are failed for some reason, we must have a quality legal framework for punishing abusers and therefore this proposal for a law amending the Penal Code is a step in the right direction and that we should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36101	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is counterpart Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36102	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, dear secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, from the beginning of this debate, it seems to me that we can conclude the following. As regards this proposal for a law relating only to the erasure of Article 3(6). The Penal Code, and in order to achieve the objective of making it possible for victims of violence to do so without a limitation of the time limit, which is currently applicable, in the light of Article. 47. The law on criminal proceedings, because at this point, apart from vulnerable groups, all other victims are limited to the launch of the procedure by their proposal, we think that this objective is indeed justified and that we all advocate that each victim should be protected by a legislative framework. However, what is obvious about which there is a misunderstanding between the position and the opposition is the following. So, we believe, because at this point they are already in the procedure of a broader amendment to the Penal Code, which, above all, is motivated by the integration of the European Directive which we are obliged to implement and incorporate in order to enter into force by 31 May of this year, and in the very legislative plan of the government's activities it is envisaged that amendments and additions to the Penal Code be adopted until then, simply, we consider, since the Penal Code is an organic law that is not opportunised, and it is not good for legal certainty that at this moment we are only going to these amendments which are proposed to delete Article 3. 156. when it will be covered by wider changes that will take effect no later than 3 months. Therefore, it is never good to change the rules and never have to swear to that, and especially when it comes to such an important regulation, it is also the proposer himself on behalf of his colleagues, Grbin, who said that the Penal Code is a very important law and that it is really not good to change it often. I really don't understand why this argument is controversial to you when you all know very well that these changes and additions that are broader in scope are already in the procedure and how much information the task force is having at the end of the draft and he should be going to counseling very soon. So, what we also need to know, and that is that, as counterpart Rasdic said, the Committee on Gender Equality together with two other committees had a thematic session a few days ago on the issue of protection against violence which is very current and we are all aware and that they unanimously concluded at that session that all possibilities would be considered to improve the existing legislative framework. And it is also a task for the task force to consider, in addition to this amendment proposed in this law, whether there is any other possibility of improvement within these amendments and additions that are now under way. I think it's really never good to do individual changes to the article under the article of a law. The situation would be completely different if we had this proposal today and it wasn't in progress but rather a draft of broader amendments and additions to the same law. However, it is not good to resort to a solution that we have two procedures to amend the organic law only 2 or 3 months. So I'm asking for understanding because I really see that it's in all of us's interest the same, and that's better and more adequate protection of victims from violence, and I think we're all in the same position. If we talk about what this government has done and in the last term, then I can say that we are also in 2019. Had changes to the Penal Code when we were just changing this article. 156 and when the exemption is laid down in Article 3 that the exemption applies to vulnerable groups. However, no one then thought and suggested that the exemption was not available but rather that the procedure should be initiated for all victims under official duty. So then we changed the Code of Criminal Procedure just to speed up criminal proceedings and to strengthen precautions, we changed the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence precisely to protect children and all other victims. We have qualified then and forms of crime, crimes against close persons, we have imposed much stricter sanctions than prescribing a special minimum to prescribing a special maximum sentence in the Penal Code precisely for these crimes that we are talking about today. So, I really don't think that today should be too slow about what we're all up against and that we really shouldn't weigh whose political victory is, as counterpart Rasudic said, but really let's think about whether it's opportunistic to change the Penal Code in three months two times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36103	Thank you. Next is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36104	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Today when I speak on behalf of the SDP Club about amendments to the Penal Code, I actually speak for all those women and all those men who have experienced any form of sexual harassment and kept silent about it. They kept silent because they didn't feel safe to talk, they kept silent because they weren't prepared to condemn and to Stigmatize society, they weren't, they weren't willing to be victims, convicted victims, and on the other hand to watch protected perpetrators. Verbal or not verbally, physically, but it is always unwanted, I underline is always the unwanted, unwanted behavior of a sexual nature that aims to hurt a person's dignity, behavior that causes fear, hostile, humiliating or offensive environment. Today, colleagues and colleagues, responsibility for us, today we have the opportunity to change Croatian society for the better, and not only to stick to declarative condemnations of such behaviour, today we have the opportunity to specifically create a legislative framework and set up tools to protect the victim, and more effectively process the perpetrator. Let's not all forget it together, that's our job. HS is a legislative body and it is not enough to say that some laws have changed, the laws need to be amended until they are effective enough to protect our citizens, to protect our victims in this case, and if it is necessary to change them once, two, three times a year, to change them until they are good enough. We do not hesitate, and when your draft law comes on the agenda we will support it because it is in the interest of the victim, because it is in the interest of the citizens. But we're sorry we have to wait so long, not us, but I repeat, the victims. My colleagues and colleagues, this is not a topic that needs to be shared ideologically. This is a subject that we need to have a unique view of because I repeat, the victim is a victim. If we so approached the adoption of these amendments to the Penal Code, they would be voted by the great majority in today's parliament, it is clear from all the debates so far but already at the beginning of this debate, we know that it will not be, but now we know that the Government of A. Plenkovic has proposed to the Parliament to accept this proposal and unfortunately will not accept it because it has the power of hands. It has the strength of the hands, no strength of the arguments, but it has the strength of the hands. However, I expect this initiative to be supported by other clubs, which we have heard here today, we thank you for. But we also expect to get support from the ruling majority. Because despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given a negative opinion on these amendments to the Penal Code, I do not see that anyone in the Croatian Parliament could be opposed to being prosecuted by an official act of sexual harassment. For example, if the proposal were supported by all opposition clubs and 16 colleagues from the HDZ Club, this proposal would be voted on. He would be voted upon for the benefit of all women victims of sexual harassment in the Republic of Croatia, and some of them may never have become one because of these changes. I therefore also urge colleagues from the HDZ Club to reconsider and support this proposal. While in the media space every day we had the opportunity to see new sexual harassment affairs emerging, and I remind you of that, from the case of former HDZ representative Damir Škara, whom we have slightly forgotten, via Bernard Jakelić, to cases at the university and on public television, the Government of A. Plenkovic of the Parliament has proposed not to accept SDP's proposal to prosecute sexual harassment by official duty. At the same time, Resorary Minister Malenica announces the establishment of a working group to draft a bill on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. It was said to begin working in January 2021. Today I asked the secretary of state if they had started working, where the decision to establish them is a matter of the ministry, the secretary of state tells me. No, the decision is not a matter of the ministry, the decision is a public matter, it's a public matter. It is especially a public matter because it does not contain personal data and is important for the future of this country. Also, Resort Minister Malenica rather than offering concrete solutions aimed at protecting victims and more effective processing of the perpetrators of this crime, says "the victims now have a legal option which they are underusing and the courts are according to regulations and laws". Shall we say in the end, Your Honor, according to bad law? Can we say that here in the Croatian Parliament? Can we say that? The institutions through the legislative framework should be provided with an effective tool. And by the way, send a message that there are no untouchables in the Republic of Croatia. I will stop here because you will remember, it is precisely a sentence often pronounced by our prime minister, the Croatian Prime Minister, often during the current morning, here in the Croatian Parliament, there is no untouchable in the Republic of Croatia. No matter what she says about party belongings, everyone before the law must be equal and there must be no tolerance to sexual or any other abuse. I'll just remind you very briefly, the SDP actually proposes to delete paragraph 3 in Art. 156. The penal code would mean that any act of sexual harassment can be persecuted and persecuted even after a three - month period. or on official duty. By bringing such a change to the KZ, the Croatian Parliament, the legislator, we, not someone imaginary, not someone to say, would ensure a stronger criminal protection of victims of sexual harassment, would send the perpetrators a clear message that they would always be able to be persecuted and possibly deter them from committing a new crime. That would mean there are no untouchables in the Republic of Croatia. And what do we have in the Republic of Croatia? We have a fact that the sociological and cultural framework provides both behavior. Sexual harassment applies not only to the relationship between men and women but also to transgender and transgender persons exposed to various forms of abuse because of their sexual or sexual traits. This means that it is embarrassing in the Republic of Croatia that victims are often stigmatised in view of the existing legislative institutional framework and are left to themselves or possibly to NGOs. Single mothers are particularly vulnerable together as victims of sexual harassment who also hesitate to report for fear of losing their jobs, condemnation of the environment in which they live, work, and so on. The same situation happens to us with men's applications. In the Republic of Croatia, it is a shame and a Stigmatized that a man is sexually abused. Today, it is important here in the Croatian Parliament to say that we record a very small number of convictions for these crimes, only a few at the annual level. Judicial practice is not gender-sensitive, judges and judges are not sufficiently trained to carry out these procedures, so the resulting law is mainly interpreted or literally without understanding the spirit of a certain normative solution or without ensuring the necessary protection of victims. Furthermore, I'm going to give you a little bit of an example. For example, the protection of victims through the Penal Code Article 156 suffers from the deviating interpretation of this standard by court practice. It is also an interpretation of some courts that repeated sexual harassment does not occur immediately after the victim has made it clear that her sexual behavior is unwanted, and the perpetrator has continued to do so only after the action has been interrupted and repeated under the new circumstances of time, the place of initiation is completely unacceptable. It is for every condemnation of Croatian society and we are able to change it all together today. I appeal once again on behalf of the SDP Club it is extremely important that these forms of gender-founded violence are not carried out according to the proposal of the victim within 3 months but by official There's enough of us to vote for the changes. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36105	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you very much, thank you very much. In the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed representative, Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36106	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs, so in front of the House of Homeland Movement Club, I want first of all to look back on the process of passing the law by emergency procedure because it is something that I otherwise resent the rulings and keep the righteous and bring here. Therefore, in its report of 23 January 2013, the Constitutional Court warned that it was not constitutionally legally acceptable in the manner in which the legislator passed the laws under emergency procedure. The Institute of Emergency Laws has been governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so Article 204(1) states, an exceptional law can be adopted by an emergency procedure where it requires particularly justified reasons which must be particularly justified in the proposal. In addition to the proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure, a final draft law containing everything and a bill is submitted except for the text of the final draft law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament say that laws that comply with EU documents may also be passed following an urgent procedure if requested by the applicant. Voicing concern with parliamentary practice about the adoption of laws under emergency procedure, the Constitutional Court recalled that the Republic of Croatia belongs to parliamentary democracies. The multi-party democratic system and the rule of law are the highest values of its constitutional order as defined in Article 3. The Constitution. The common practice of passing laws by emergency procedure violates the very essence of parliamentaryism. Such practice warrants the importance of democratic procedures and the obligation to respect them, and prevents public debates on essential social issues by weakening this and the basis for developing and improving dialogue culture without which there is no democratic society. The right created in procedures that are not in line with the spirit of parliamentaryism does not come under citizens' trust, while at the same time undermining their trust in democratic institutions. The legislator is absolutely not denied the right to adopt law in certain specific situations by emergency procedure, however, this should be done exceptionally where there are reasons laid down in the Rules of Procedure and where these reasons are justified. It is necessary, without exception, to explain the relevant reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure in detail in the proposal for the law itself. So much for the law-making procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The penal law hypotheses of a criminal being fills one who acts verbally, non-verbally or physically unwanted behavior of a sexual nature that is intended or truly a violation of dignity to a person who causes fear, hostile, humiliating or offensive environment. The social danger of acts in the preventive and penalty domain has been established by up to 2 years in prison. The perpetrator is prosecuted on official duty if the victim is particularly vulnerable due to his age. It would be better if this age were defined by objective criteria, for example. the adulthood of a person or, for example, up to the age of 25, while, in all other cases, the party's proposal is also needed for prosecution by the State's attorney. This is the only offence contained in Chapter XVI of the Penal Code, so it refers to crimes against sexual freedom for which a proposal for a victim has been laid down and includes acts which cannot be subject to other incriminating acts in Chapter XVI. Such a provision is common in the case of partial acts established by criminal or criminal law in which a violation of dignity occurs, i.e. a personality or an intimate person because they also have a component of a subjective experience. In these situations, causing fear, discomfort or other mental or physical distress must be existential. There is no crime without caused by a sense of discomfort or fear which are forces, species and intensity foreseen by law. The criminal law also governs, in the same principle, other materially similar criminal acts such as abuse at work or intrusive conduct, violation of home infraction and business space, unauthorized imaging. The very application of the provisions of the current law specifically in practice means that victims of sexual harassment within a maximum of 3 months of the moment they have experienced sexual harassment must submit a proposal to prosecute the perpetrator, and if they do not do so within that time limit their application will be rejected, in other words they will be considered as not to have been disturbed. The question is rightly asked what kind of message we send to people who are prone to harassment, but also to those whom the system should protect. To all these additions and the fact that I have been given insight these days, therefore a European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg has been made public, which annuls all rulings of the Croatian national courts, namely the first-degree and second-degree court, including the ruling of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, but also denies the position taken by our Constitutional Court in the case of a pregnant woman who was fired in the KBC of Rijeka after signing a contract on work indefinitely. In this particular case, after learning that the employee was pregnant, the employer concluded that it was a fictitious contract because she, as such, cannot meet the obligations of the labor contract. It is regrettable that all courts in the Republic of Croatia, which it has addressed, including the Constitutional Court, have sided with the employer and have justified KBC Rijeka's case. All the way to the European Court of Human Rights, which strongly condemned the Republic of Croatia and the only one to protect women, pregnant women, who only got fired from the contract of employment because of pregnancy. This example was deliberately chosen and presented today because I believe that I should, therefore, return to the concrete proposal for amendments and addition of the Penal Code, so it should be kept in mind that persons exposed to sexual harassment, especially if it seems to be from the superior and at the workplace, is very difficult to retaliate and decide to apply against the perpetrators, which is, among other things, caused by fear, both for the workplace and for other existential and related issues, but also because of the subjective feeling of shame and discomfort, and therefore, it is often necessary to make such a difficult decision as to file a complaint against the perpetrator of sexual harassment. We at the House of Homeland Movement Club will support the bill's amendment to the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36107	Thank you, dear colleague Vukovac, and now, on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36108	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here in defense that by an emergency procedure we should not change the Penal Code, any of the speeches that, behold, not every single one should change the Penal Code. It should be recalled that the Penal Code entered into force on 1 January '13. And so far, it's been changed five times and Mrs. Jelkovac here said that there, we didn't, when it was changing exactly in this article. The 156th said there was no need to have a 3 month limit, but only to have vulnerable groups and children, is there, and minors, etc. Is life and what we've learned going to wait for our laws to be confused since they were made so that we can't make changes or this other story, who is it that's going to bring some change? We need to know that the fact that life is faster than we are and faster than the law, and we know how justice works, should also remind us that 2020, thanks to women's initiatives, too, especially to save me, that one change, extremely significant, happened in the Penal Code and imagine how no one had ever seen the nonsense before that there was a difference between sexual relations without consent and rape. So sex without bringing in equal rape, and of course legal sanctions were different then, for one provision both for the other and then, of course, we know that the judiciary tried and which additionally with judgments, which were less sent messages to some future rapists. So practice made us change then, practice about now these reporting initiatives. What's the rush? Because we testified a month and a half ago that the procedure was dismissed, where 14 female employees and three other former HUP employees were also rejected because they did not report sexual harassment or sexual abuse or sexual violence within 3 months. So it was rejected and which message was sent, not only 14 women, but 144 and 144 women. Well, it was an important thing to encourage 14 women to apply, and here other colleagues have also said what it means in some environment of businesses, companies, institutions, where it is not only a question that will report to one who has power over, but also who will testify for the benefit of these other women because they also have to keep their jobs or relationships with other people. So why do we advocate and the Green-Left bloc club will support this happening in an emergency procedure. We can trust you to change and change, so laws are not more important than human lives. Or are they? Or, until a new law is passed, if any of these women have reported it now, so until we pass the law, from this wave that's now happened, all these cases will also become obsolete because, look at the information we have from the MUP. The increase in the criminal offences of sexual harassment of art. 156 of the Penal Code, as it is now, compared to '17. is more than 55%. In 2017, there were 26 cases, in 2018. 249, 2019. 59. So even with these bad laws, there were so many applications. Not the bad laws, but the bad regulations in the law. Unfortunately, we don't have official statistics on judicial institutions, but according to the follow-up and the lawyers for gender equality, we record only a small number of convictions. So we've got 27, then 49, then 59, and barely a few convictions a year. What does that tell us if we have only a few convictions a year? So if it encourages the non-processing of the victim to report or the abusers to abuse, it would be a very simple answer. The practice has just shown that our legislative framework gives on one side a sufficient level of protection of the victim, and we know that there has been no speech here, there are three laws and one half that almost has the same definition of sexual harassment and these are the Criminal Law, the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination and the Partly Fourth Law, the Law on Labour. So, we have almost the same or with minimal differences in definition of what sexual harassment would be, but when we come to court practice, then you know very well what it means to read in spirit or by law and what measures are being taken and what judgments are being made, whether they are in favour of the victims and whether we are now trying to do something for the benefit of the victims, even though we do not know what the verdicts will be, even though they no longer have a limit in reporting. If we don't change that article then. 156. We will continue to reject criminal charges due to the age of time, as I have already mentioned in this case by HUP's official because it is interesting that the resolution in the rejection of this application is a practice that there are circumstances that exclude prosecution, and that no victim has submitted a motion for prosecution within a legal period of three months, nor has such knowledge been given, but the reading of the verdict shows that there has been a basis for this. And you know what they got the proposal? That everyone individually sues the abuser. So we're the community that's going to leave women behind after all that's happened to them to end up suing someone for their own expense. Are we really going to make sure that women feel safe and when they apply, if we're going to see it now and in common here we mentioned it, to a joint thematic session of three of our committees where we insisted that women must have a safe, but also an autonomous place first to report, that they must know where they have protection and that we must show that the power that is above in any relationship, whether it's in the university, whether it's in the company, whether it's in any other institution that relationships can't be a prerequisite for someone to abuse another. And also what's important, the message that we're sending is the sensitization of the community, all that we've done over the past few years, that the community has been sensitized by the one that used to be about domestic violence, and then the sexual violence, so we've changed what we understand is rape, now that we're talking about sexual harassment, that I and the syntagm of sexual harassment would change because it's a bit of a banalization. Why is there no sexual violence left, sexual abuse like we have in some other laws? I'm sorry that there's no Mr. Zekanovic, but I'd be happy to answer him once to stop talking and let him study what gender ideology means and stop talking about men in dresses, we know that only in two of our Christian churches are men with dresses with regular appearances that we see, and nobody is bothered by it, but let's look at it, the Istanbul Convention didn't put the concept of gender ideology, so let's take a look, for example. The Croatian Statistics Act 2002 is signed by Mr Shakespeare, chapter No. 9, statistics and birth statistics, so that's when we separate data from male and female. It used to be called statistics towards male and female sex, so it was a bit rough, so it says birth statistics, let it look at dozens of laws before Istanbul that were adopted there in the Assembly, parliamentary representatives and MPs do not slow down what would be controversial in terms of gender that only recognizes these different roles that we have talked about here. From understanding these different roles comes violence and we here have to stop it and we have to stop it as soon as possible. Don't let anything happen to us until you pass your law so it won't be like Mr. Bandic that he'll resign when he falls out of the house, so it fell today, so he sure as hell won't resign. Don't let an accident happen. [[Intruder Škoro: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36109	Time, thank you. We'll stop at the bricks. The last debate on behalf of the club of representatives respected representative Marijana Puljak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36110	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will begin by quoting the news from the media on February 8th as I asked the State Secretary here, so "Minister Ivan Malenica then on February 8th of this year said he met with Gender Equality Advocate Višnja Ljubicic, who has long warned of too short periods of age. Malenica has confirmed that a working group has been formed to amend the Penal Code and suggests, among other things, that police or DORH sexual harassment is being prosecuted in the future by official duty and that the current three-month deadline for the application is extended to a general limitation period of ten years. The proposal for these changes could see the light of day through a month or two, said Minister Malenica," so on February 8th, it says month or two. But even before that happens, we find out, therefore, that the author of the news "will go in the direction of the police and the DORH that they are acting more extensively under the existing obviously missing law, which means that sexual harassment is being treated even more seriously than the law is now predicting" so that was news in the media on that day. We absolutely support and welcome, then we said "good for the minister, excellent and quick reaction", so we spoke at the time of that statement and clapped that decision. However, here is after Minister Malenica's statement in the media astounding the government's opinion on the proposed law or their recommendation not to accept the law's proposal in question, although everything that this amendment brings to mind in principle, here we have heard here in the presentation, so there is nothing controversial about it, and here is the opportunity for the change to take effect as soon as possible, so here's why they don't take advantage of this opportunity. The victim must now seek to persecute the perpetrator himself, so he does not go on official duty as in the case of serious acts of fornication or rape. Sexual harassment is the most frequently untasteful sexually-concerned verbal incursions, touches, and similar physically unwanted behavior of sexual nature, which is primarily a violation of someone's dignity and causes fear, as many girls, women and other victims report these days. After a series of testimony about sexual violence in public these days other than verbal support for victims of violence, it is our duty to move them from this place of the highest representative and legislative body to strengthen institutions and tools that would be much more protected by victims of violence, so all that is in our power without delay. For this reason, as well as here and the women's club, some call us whether the female club, we have responded and invited all fellow MPs to respond appropriately to our function, not only by verbal support for victims of violence, but by a large number of representatives who responded independently to the call for party and club membership, regardless of which side of this assembly we sit, left, right, at the centre, we have gathered in an informal extra-party task force, we have called it "Advisers to strengthen the protection of victims of sexual violence" which would further and focus on proposing and monitoring the realisation of concrete proposals to help strengthen the protection of victims of violence. One of the first proposals was to extend the legal deadline for reporting sexual abuse. The SDP Club then, at that time, has already launched this initiative to amend the Penal Code and here it is right here in front of us and we all support this proposal. The next proposal mentioned in this initiative is better quality psychological and other professional assistance through the opening of a number of centres to support victims of violence throughout Croatia, currently there are only 7 in the county courts. In addition to punishing the perpetrators, it is necessary to work to prevent sexual violence. We will ask the Ministry of Education for a representative sample of primary and secondary school students and their teachers and professional associates to carry out scientific research on the level of knowledge adopted in the field of inter-species "Health" which has been taking place in our schools since 2018. with particular emphasis on preventing and preventing violence and sexual violence in order to see how our children even perceive these topics. One of the topics on which we should certainly insist is the "Addition of a national policy for gender equality" which we have not had since 2015, so it was adopted in the 2011 assembly for the period until 2015. We have recently also had a meeting of the 3 parliamentary committees on this subject, so how institutions can prevent sexual abuse and there are some conclusions that we welcome. Sexual violence is not just physical violence, with profound and severe consequences left on the victim's psyche, and they carry their whole lives. And the traumatic experience is extremely difficult for them to talk about and ask for help. Therefore, as a society, we are obliged to create a secure environment and provide them with the highest possible standard of protection. Here I will now quote both psychologist and female room coordinator Dr. Maju Mamula, who emphasized some things. So, in society, we must not aim at preparing victims for future similar situations but at creating a healthy and equal society in which there is no tolerance to sexual violence. It must not transfer responsibility to girls, girls, women, but rather point to the perpetrator and unanimously condemn the crime that someone has suffered. Because if we were to accept as a society the weight of sexual violence and we were to be sensitized and to understand the extent of the consequences and the stigma that we currently attribute to victims who have survived sexual violence would be less. We can't raise girls and girls for generations to guard against sexual violence, but it's time to really raise boys and young people who will view them exclusively as equal and equal. Sexual harassment is one of the most common forms of sexual violence that is most easily and tolerated and for which most legislation does not have a sanctioning mechanism. It includes unwanted sexual behaviors that necessarily do not involve physical contact, bring the victim into an awkward and humiliating position, and cause a sense of shame. The key element is the power of someone in a more powerful position than the victim, e.g. Head of a subordinate or subordinate, professor or assistant of a student or student. Sexual harassment is often treated as a trivial problem that can easily be avoided and stopped, most often not true, very often with repetitive behavior. Sexual abuse is not related to the need to satisfy impulses but to the need for power and control. Finally, according to the Council of Europe, one of the five children is from the age of 18. They will experience some form of sexual violence while one in five women and one in 71 men experience rape. Data from the MUP show that children make up a large number of victims of various forms of sexual violence or youth by the age of 22. lives that are more than 70% while child abusers and adult women are often known to men. So here I think everyone in the assembly has agreed that these amendments to the law are necessary, so I'd say for the end, let's listen to the advice that we've often heard from our parents, so what you can do today, don't leave for tomorrow. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36111	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since the last break was at 2:00 p.m., we need to clear the assembly room a little bit, so I suggest we proceed with the debate at exactly 5 p.m. and 45 minutes. Thank you. It's 17.33 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the session on the same agenda and follow 16 individual discussions. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.51 HOURS]] The first individual debate is Honored Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36112	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague, mostly my colleague, is it, and also a colleague vice president, sexual violence or abuse is the worst thing, essentially the most morbid, most likely if it's from the position of power. And of course we need to support the legislative changes, this is not a question, this is essentially a question of humanity's behavior towards those who are weaker, more powerless, who are threatened with dignity. Sexual violence should be condemned, the tribune characterized and the triba regulated legally and this law partly, the proposal, mostly regulated, that all abusers who humiliate it from the position of power, is mostly from the position of power, the weaker, the less powerful, the sexually abused, and by me, this proposal is quite acceptable. And I think that the state must work on this so that abusers, bullyes, primarily sexual violence, must be condemned and it is ours, moral, above all, obligations and human obligations, and of course, there must be law enforcement, because generally these morbid things that come to mind, the tribune should be condemned and sanctioned to protect it weaker, whether women, children or anyone else, and also men who are being abused sexually, means everyone who is being abused with positions of power is absolutely out of date, it can't be waited, so I'm surprised why most of them who have been propagated by solving, that they will solve everything, the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, along with the applause of the SDP, we have to strengthen their own, meaning our legal framework, and not some kind of gender ideology, some kind of intrusion through the Istanbul conventions, we haven't really solved anything. We haven't solved anything, and contrary to the will of the majority, that HDZ pushed here to have some foreign institution oversee, some GRECO, oversee what we're doing. We must, as a legislative body, protect everyone who is sexually abused, us as a Parliament. This is not a question, this is normal, I mean, question, which is why I am amazed and I expect that HDZ will accept it, mainly gender ideology promoter, which is Andrej Plenkovic in the Republic of Croatia. Although this issue is absolutely, these gender ideologies, the Istanbul Convention which has been brought here without a referendum because a referendum has been stolen for people, nothing represents and now it is seen that we were right and colleagues from the SDP, you as promoters. When we said that we had to, that the Istanbul Convention didn't solve anything for us, but we were parliamentary representatives who had to pass the law to protect everyone from sex offenders, mainly, I repeat, with the position of power, when abused, whether a child, whether a woman or anyone else. Abuse, so it's hard to condemn. Without old age, it's the hardest thing to do. And not to advertise here with the EU, here, I've brought the Istanbul Convention, I've brought you gender ideology, and now he's someone and something. So give it to the people to decide on this Istanbul Convention, not to pay foreign institutions to oversee us in some of the less important matters. Here we must be unique, to protect against the victim's abusers because mainly the violent are always from the position of power and while the position of power the victim is in fear, the victim is under psychological pressure, the victim is the one who is in trouble and therefore must not be obsolete. If it's about a student, if it's about, no matter who she is, she's from a position of power, she's humiliated, her dignity in sexual abuse or any other position, which is why the stricter legal framework and sanctions and punishments and abolishing any statute of limitations in sexual abuse, regardless of who it was, and too much in Croatia is a lot of demagogy, the PR, mainly it was at the Istanbul Convention where she was violently presented here as a rescue for victims, for some, I don't have, I just can't see it now, it's not true. We're that body, we're that body, HS has to autonomously decide and sanction the most severe sexual abusers and protect the victims. And that's like my final message. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36113	Thank you very much. You have one replica. Dear Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36114	She would thank her colleagues for this presentation, and this shows that it is not a woman's subject or something to be dealt with only by women, but also as a man respects the importance of this topic, and that is precisely the point of what is the biggest problem, which is asymmetry of power, the fact that we have someone who can rule over someone and as long as the victim is in that position that it is actually very likely, unfortunately, often existentially threatened, will not react. Here, by the way, you would ask him, since he has made such a nice conclusion, does he notice at Parliament level that there is an asymmetry of power, whether different parliamentary representatives and parliamentary deputies are treated or think that we are equally treated, or might he then notice at the second level a demonstration of power and, for example, from the chairman over the rest of the parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36115	Thank you very much. Replication response, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36116	It's the devil's power, the devil's chair we're sitting in, mostly at the most, where we lose our connection to reality. But surely, once again, the most difficult thing to do is to sanction sexual abusers and to protect the maximum victims of sexual violence. And it's not just A. Plenkovic's parade, here when the Istanbul Convention was adopted, counterpart Seka Rasdic, when they clapped HDZ together, SDP. It's empty paper, but we have to bring it in and ours in implementation, all the bodies, so state institutions, have to determine that job. The greatest sanctions I am without statute of limitations against sexual abusers, and I will support that, regardless of what comes from the SDP, I raised my hand or anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36117	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go, ma'am. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36118	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The subject of sexual harassment has recently gotten a lot of public space for a reason. I'm sure the time has finally come for women to say there's a lot of abuse, and that possible abusers are finally beginning to fear their actions. I kind of let myself say women because they're victims of sexual abuse in most women. Even if it wasn't for so much publicity, this proposal should support it. And I don't think there's any dilemma about it, but of course, the HDZ government, as always, has one other approach and it justifies it with a classic, smoke-screened, complete solution that's around the corner, so it's going to be perfectly arranged, even a working group is established, so there's really no need to adopt this proposal right now. If we had some starch here and if that starch had really been thrown into 10 kn, every pie when the government with that answer refused some proposal, the Parliament would have had the money to make after these earthquakes a new building. If sexual harassment were to be prosecuted under official duty, if the deadline were to be without a time limit for women or victims, they would not have to report the same after their traumatic experience. This is extremely important because the perpetrators are often superior in the workplace or in the position of power relative to the victim, but until this and this proposal is adopted, we will continue to be silent and unable to witness the worst cases of harassment and abuse. As an example, in the case of the HUP, I'm just going to have recent cases. When criminal charges were dropped against former deputy director Bernard Jakelić, who accused 15 employees of abuse, the DORH acknowledged the existence of an element of the crime but a period of 3 months. I'm afraid he's gone. And in that case, the Gender Equality Advocate also identified the HUP's failures to protect the victims. Or should I remind you of this interesting case from Vukovar. When the court released the perpetrator with a reason that the harassment only happened once. It was a police officer who got the courage to file a report. Every time we have cases where someone gets the courage to report it. And then the court repeated it once more, determined that there was sexual harassment but there was only one time, and then one who was neither, so the perpetrator was released. Or the case when the judge released the perpetrator, he accused the victim of slander and then it found out that she was telling the truth. There are hundreds and thousands of similar examples. According to the Mobing Association, even 38% experienced sexual harassment at work but very rarely reported it. Different research has been carried out on this subject, and everything tells us about the fact that one - third of women in an environment have been harassed. Students, employees, etc. The study of the Women's Room showed that as many as 55% of women in the public space experienced unwanted sexual objections and vulgar offers. Even 43% of women unsolicited body touching. This is the kind of Croatia we live in. This bill goes in the sense that a woman really shouldn't be a victim twice, and once, the second time she reported it, and the third time when, like this case, the victim was convicted of slander, the judge only then found that she was telling the truth. Therefore, the ruling HDZ deserves to be accepted immediately, not there somewhere, not there when a working group produces a whole proposal. About the fact that we have to wait for the whole proposal, we've heard too many times and therefore taught by experience, I'm afraid we'll never see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36119	Thank you. Next, if you'll excuse me, we have one replica, the esteemed representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36120	Dear MPs, here you have seen several examples of court practice that do not exactly go on the hands of the victims, you have seen several alarming figures that also point out that in Croatia violence against women is quite pronounced and that we actually have major problems. In your opinion, given that this request we made for adoption and the debate is not complex, it is not demanding, so one article should delete one paragraph of the law, in your opinion, which is why the Government does not accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36121	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36122	Thank you very much, dear colleague, so there's always a hand-to-hand ratio. So, it's always all about how many hands anyone has. So if you have 76 in the Croatian Parliament then you can come to the pay phone, say you agree that everything is good together, but when the vote comes, you vote differently. There won't be a step in this country, this country won't have a real future as long as we from this pay phone hear those words we've heard countless times, but you did it there in 2003 and why you didn't do it, but you did it then. So as long as you don't or don't do it we'll listen there won't be a step. Step will be the moment when you have a proposal like this, when the proposal is absolutely clear when we will all agree with the proposal at the declarative level, but when we will then and the day when the voting conditions are obtained Then this country will have a future. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36123	Thank you very much. Next individual debated representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36124	My colleagues and colleagues were very quickly seen in which all gloves politicized it usually so we call this debate a turn. But I will remind you that the Croatian Parliament is not only that, that we are before that, and hopefully in the future we will see how we can work together. So first, I will take the opportunity to thank my colleagues for helping me with some of the problems and some of the things about this topic that I had not previously been aware of and who worked with me together to achieve the meetings of the parliamentary committees, but also in the towers in the halls worked out this topic and did not necessarily always perform in the same place at the same time, but with the same goals. I would like to thank my colleague Juričev Martinchev, who was here to see that she had left, the vice president of the board, and her colleague, Bedekovic, is here. She helped us organize a meeting together of as many as three committees. I think it's a big message and it's a very important thing that it's not one committee, that it's not two, it's three, that almost half the assembly, one third exactly worked together to solve this problem. And that for one moment at these few hours, we really forgot that we belong to different political options and that we agreed on common conclusions. I'd also like to thank my colleague, Martinchev, who was there on behalf of the Media Committee. I would like to thank my colleague, Boric, who is helping me because she has been working on this subject for a long time and because she is aware of some things that I am not acquainted with, and who is sitting with me in the Committee on Gender Equality. And all the other colleagues I have discussed and cooperated with on this subject, and I hope that in the future we will show that there are topics beyond our party's and even ideological interests and that we will produce some common conclusions just to remind ourselves that the Croatian Parliament is not only what we have partially witnessed today and what we may be witnessing when we vote on this legislative proposal, which is a divergence in order to make a political score and a political profit on this. The Croatian Parliament is often less media extravagant or less tempting and a place of cooperation and should remain. As far as sexual harassment is concerned, I'd like to point out one more thing. The Labour Act of Article 134 provides that in any collective where there is at least 20 work, the employer is obliged to appoint a person who, in addition to him, is authorised to receive and resolve complaints with the dignity of the workers. We have some good legal provisions, but how many employers do it in practice. I'll remind you that there's a growing number of anonymous applications within large systems, within institutions, which shows that the victims don't feel like they have institutional protection. We've talked a lot about the media interest in the situation at HRT and the situation in academic institutions, but we've seen a lot of those workers who have the least institutional protection that are truly existentially dependent on all work and who never dare to report sexual harassment because after them is a loss of work, a loss of existence and cannot afford it. They need to implement these legal provisions in practice. And in the end, I would go back to what I said and in the replica of my colleague Grbino, 2019, we had six cases within the family of a crime, which happens within a family of close men who were victims of sexual harassment and nine women. Also, when we talk about the victims of family violence with disability 71 victims are female and 53 male victims. Elderly age 717 female victims, 383 male victims. Why am I saying that and pointing out? Because I want to remind you that our foundation and our enemy are power, strength and strength, their demonstration and abuse of those who are weaker and more powerless. That's how sex relations in this statistics when they're older and powerless and disabled are getting closer than when, say, people are in the tension of power. That is why it should also be recalled that men can be victims of sexual harassment and that men can also be victims of violence. It should not deny that women are more often victims or our conditionality to the social roles that leads to this, but with this reminder, we may sensitize each other and alarm all of us as members of society who do not tolerate violence to fight together against all its deviations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36125	Thank you, colleague Selak Rasudic, for your debate, has caused several wishes for replicas mostly within your club. The first is Honorable Representative Ante Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36126	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, has the number of cases of violence against women been on the rise in recent years? And secondly, do you think or specifically, what do you think should be done to prevent violence against women and then men?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36127	Excuse me, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36128	Within the last few years, we have not witnessed so much increase in violence of any sexual violence, but what is more worrying is that we do not witness its reduction. Despite all the social pressures, despite the changes in the legal framework, we have changed the framework for the criminal act of sexual harassment that it is no longer a punishment of one year or two, so we have sent a certain social message. But we still do not see that this message has been accepted in practice. So we primarily need to worry about the fact that we do not see a fall in sexual violence. As for how to prevent it, I think we should work on prevention, that we really need these protocols that I've advocated to clearly establish. For example, for students it is not really a problem through some brochures where they will be familiar with their rights and where they will discourage the perpetrators. It is a simple step that can have concrete consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36129	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36130	I thank the chairman. Dear MPs, I would refer to what you said about not using these topics to score political points. I think that in this entire political maze, certainly none of us will be executed from whatever side of the political spectrum we come from if we are in line for the values of the policy on which citizens have given us their trust within this mandate. We come from different positions, but there are some things, and I think today we're talking about such a thing where we all really represent the same values, and I think that this proposal should be supported and put aside who put it out there. If the SDP gets any points with that, so let him get it, first they remember, they formulate it well, and they get points. Maybe we'll get extra points in public because we're going through some political and ideological differences and we support this side's quality proposal. Perhaps even the ruling would get a point to support something good that comes from the opposition. I think that in this direction we should direct the debate, so the common denominator of the values that we stand for and let aside the political calculations who will ultimately win. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36131	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36132	I have never really understood why someone, especially the ruling majority who is now ruling, is jeopardizing the fact that they have accepted any quality opposition proposal that they agree with in substance because they later propose it through their own amendment. As far as I'm concerned, I believe that's what most Croatian citizens think, it's just a demonstration of weakness because you're showing that you're giving yourself such an easy threat that you can't even accept the amendment, which means you're aware of how dangerous competition comes from the lines of opposition. You recognize your own impotence, not demonstrating strength, as often thought to be sending a message when these same proposals are not accepted. I agree that we should at least try to be politically honest here even if it's some kind of political point for us, so it doesn't mean we're politically innocent, which is to admit that there's a common social consensus that we don't tolerate sexual harassment and then accept it in practice. By applying a law like this. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36133	The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36134	My fellow Members, it was correct of you to commend your colleagues from other clubs, including those who worked together with you, that all of you worked together means that this topic opens up and I think you're going to give us a little commendation and let us who we are to the other sex so that it's correct and we're constructive and we support it. Indeed, with the position of power someone who abuses sexually anywhere, anywhere in any institution, educational, I don't know, ruling, government, in the assembly, that's the most morbid and the worst. It's not a question or politics anymore, we all have our mothers, our sisters, our children, everything we have to do to make it the most difficult to condemn the abusers sexually and to apply it in laws. And that's what we have to be complicated about. And everything else is less important [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36135	Replica response, respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36136	Of course the biggest thank you goes to the MOST Club, you're my eternal support and inspiration, parents only come after you. And I'll agree with what you said because I think we can really send a message that we agree on some issues. And I believe that I'm not the only one who thinks about when it comes down to this pay phone can he say something that will change the course of events, whether there's a sentence, whether it's up to me, whether it's something I've forgotten, whether it's something where I've done something wrong before that I'm involved in that everything is predictable, whether we can step out, what, what we can say to create what it really is true and that we show it to others that we can agree on, not that pathetic "we're all the same", "brothership and unity" and so will forever be, but in topics where there is only to recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36137	Time, thank you. Here's some more support from the Club of Representatives of the Most, replicated representative of the Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36138	Dear MPs. Selak Rasdić, thank you for sending praise across Bulja to the entire male population within the club MOST. What I am truly interested in is the topic of sexual harassment in the academic community, purely some new research, and if you could link it to the business world if you have this correlation between the academic community itself and the business world. There he is, if nothing at least in the academic community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36139	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36140	All who were part of the academic community in any way, even their studies, are aware of the importance of this relationship between professors, professors and students in the process of growing up and the unquestionable trust that is precisely in this critical and constitutive stage of life for a young person indicates someone who comes from the position of authority. As a teacher, I can responsibly argue that this trust is extremely easy to abuse and it often happens in different interesting games and is not unusual in academic practice. But when it happens in the event of sexual harassment, then we have a real problem. So far, there have not been so many reports, but the question that has been kept quiet and will any of them get an epilogue? So, I think we should focus on that because if everything stays at the level she said she said, then this, except for five minutes of media space, we didn't do anything or get anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36141	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36142	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, therefore, we will all agree that the last few years have really taken steps when it comes to adapting practice and all that is happening in terms of countering violence, and in this sense the change of the legislative framework, we are talking about amendments to these three laws, the adoption of different protocols, etc. But I understand that we can have great laws, great regulations, great protocols, but if as a society we're not sensitized that we can't really have it and we have no excuse for any kind of violence against anyone then we'll stay on that we're a society that actually doesn't tolerate violence and society that doesn't really have a consensus, that violence itself is evil in any form or anyone in which case there will be violence and will remain.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Škoro: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36143	Thank you. Replica reply respected representative Selak Raspoudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36144	I agree that this is a big problem, sexual harassment is a specific provision and something that has not yet been brought into practice as something that society condemns. We should talk about this problem too. We haven't given him enough attention. So morals, mores, customs, and morals are often related to what a particular society is temporarily through laws, whether through some common practice it experiences as what is permitted or what is unacceptable. You know that in some communities, I have to caricate, eat people, and in some other communities, that kind of thing comes to the greatest judgment. We must first even sensitize ourselves for the problem of sexual harassment, and we can only do so by openly talking about everything and even the like of what it means to do with sexual harassment, which means to process sexual harassment and all other aspects of this problem, only when we sensitize for what it is sexual. We'll be able to access his solution. [[Intruder Škoro: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36145	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is a respected representative of Katica Glamuzina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. This issue is much broader and more complex than a small amendment to the law that means a lot, but with this only small amendment to the law, we can, without further delay, bring about a major change in the life of victims of sexual violence. I will remind you of some relevant dates, January 22, 2013. Croatia has signed the Council of Europe Convention to prevent violence against women and violence in the so-called family. Istanbul Convention, 13 April 2018 HS ratified it, and on October 1st, it took effect in Croatia that same year. 24.11.2018. Amnesty International wrote a document stating in part of the recommendations for legislation in European countries the implementation of legal procedures under official duty for the crimes of sexual violence. These are therefore international recommendations and conventions that we have adopted in this House 2018, today is February 25, 2021, the Convention is not being implemented in Croatia. One of the equative examples of this claim is the lack of sufficient number of crisis centres that are referred to in Article. 25. The Istanbul Convention adopted by this Assembly should and should be established in sufficient numbers to support victims of sexual violence, the Council of Europe's recommendations are that the number of crisis centres be at least one per 200,000 inhabitants. Croatia has one such adult centre and one for children on its 4 million inhabitants. And speaking of these crisis centers, I find it important to point out that the waist believes that they need them more and not just for sexual violence but for all kinds of violence. Second example of non-implementation of the Convention ratified by this Assembly in 2018. shall be examined in contempt. 55. The Convention, I will quote it "Conscribing the particularly traumatic nature of the crime covered by this article, we wanted to reduce the burden that long criminal investigations and proceedings can represent for victims, while ensuring the arrival of the perpetrators in the face of justice. Therefore, the objective of this provision is to enable the conduct of criminal investigations and proceedings without being placed on the victim of the burden of the initiation of such proceedings and to ensure conviction. It shall be imposed on parties which are signatories States, the obligation to ensure that investigations in a number of categories of offences do not fully depend on the report or appeal submitted by the victim and that all proceedings will be allowed to continue even if the victim withdraws his statement or appeal. We believe that law enforcement authorities should conduct investigations in a proactive way to collect evidence, testimonies, medical skills, etc. and to ensure that processes can be carried out even if the victim withdraws his statement or appeal, at least in terms of serious crimes such as physical violence." In short, what does that mean? The processing of acts of sexual violence by official duty. I repeat, this convention has been ratified in this House 2018. Not by adopting these proposed amendments to the penal code HS jumps into its own mouth. And we don't accept the excuses of the species, we're going to do it in the second quarter of the current year, ma'am, it's almost three years after it's supposed to happen, we're almost three years late. And if you're saying you're gonna do it anyway, so why resisting it right now, what's the problem? For those who do not know, and the government does not seem to know, the Istanbul Convention has also foreseen monitoring the implementation of the provisions of the Convention, so there is a body... GREVIO which is a group of experts to act against violence against women and domestic violence tasked with monitoring the implementation of this Convention in the Signatory States. When GREVIO is right for us, as the country signatories of the convention come to visit, when they come to check how the Convention is implemented in Croatia, what will you tell them? That victims of sexual violence are not important enough to make one change for them, one small change, as you say, of the Penal Code, as soon as possible, but should wait for years until the government decides to put it into a package of major changes. And how many years will we wait for Dalmatia, Istria, Slavonia to get their crisis centers, what will you explain? This is a simple step, easy to implement, Italy does it, Sweden does it, Austria does it, but Croatia will not. No, our victims have to wait. Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36147	Thank you, dear colleague Glamuzine, you have three replicas. The first is colleagues of Domagoja Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36148	Thank you very much, fellow Skoro. My colleagues, Glamuzine. You've talked a lot about the Istanbul Convention. You see, we adopted her, it's been a long time since it happened, nothing happened, none of what colleagues who were skeptical about it said, but unfortunately nothing happened to protect themselves. And we can adopt billions of.../incomprehensible/... conventions, laws, regulations, if we don't implement them, but then we have a very big problem and I'm afraid that the Istanbul Convention, either first or last, but one of the conventions that you and I and a lot of colleagues and colleagues on this side of the assembly, we asked the government how much money was planned for implementation, how much money was spent, what activities were taken, etc. The answer is always in existing means is more than enough, everything works perfectly, and you and I both know it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36149	Thank you very much. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36150	Thank you. Check this out, counterpart Hajdukovic, I will now agree with my colleague Zekanovic who unfortunately is not here, when he says the Istanbul Convention has not changed anything in Croatia on the reduction of the number.../incomprehensible/... the reduction of sexual violence. And he's right, but not because the Convention is bad, but because the Convention isn't being implemented. I'm here in this short time that I have, I've set two examples, the Convention is full of them. If it were to be implemented, then we could talk about its effectiveness or ineffectiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36151	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36152	I thank the esteemed Vice President of HS, Your Honor. Comrade Glamuzina, you, in your debate, actually gave one frame and showed that the Istanbul Convention in Croatia, although ratified, remained a dead letter on paper. [[You're welcome.]] No matter what many will use it for pre-election purposes, for the purposes of international women's days, the fight against violence, etc., we who live in Croatia, the women we talk to, testify that this is unfortunately not the case. But more than anything today, I'm worried about one fact that you've touched. I will now quote: "The SDP proposal is not a matter of substance, but since it is an organic law, we believe that it is not opportunised within 2 to 3 months twice to enter into the procedure of amending that law, but that it is much more meaningful to adopt amendments in one procedure, which will cover what is necessary." This is not a text from either Italy or Austria, this is the HDZ's position. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36153	Replication response, please welcome colleagues of Glamuzine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36154	It would be rude for this speaker to say what I honestly think about it, but I would recommend asking the victim of violence which tomorrow expires either in 3 days or in 2 months or before 31 May, what about such attitudes of thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36155	Thank you. Next replica, the respected representative Željko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36156	Dear MPs, today we have heard several times that with the adoption of the Istanbul Convention nothing happened in Croatia. But that's not true. With the adoption of this Convention, the Assembly has clearly taken a stand towards phenomena in our society. And that's what we and the government and all those who adopted the Convention should take care of. I'd like to ask you a question. By accepting such a bill of amendment, that these crimes are being prosecuted by official duty, what is actually going on effectively, and what would happen if this provision were to be adopted today, which message would we send to the victims, and why is that important to us, why is that important?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36157	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. By moving this provision as an effective consequence of accepting such a proposal from only 3 months of the possibility of reporting sexual violence, we generally open the door to victims, we give them, i.e. We're putting pressure on them. [[Intruder: Please.]] All those who are involved in this topic, who have read some literature, are aware of how much victims of sexual violence are stegmatized, how difficult it is to report it at all, some take years and years of psychological counseling to get to the point where they are willing to talk to both their loved ones and their families, let alone report it specifically. By imposing this deadline on them the moment it's all still fresh, three months is nothing. If we lift that sword above their heads and open the door for them, perhaps more victims will be encouraged to report such crimes and perhaps more will be processed. and more criminals convicted. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36159	Thank you. Thank you very much, dear fellow Glamze, that would be it, and the next individual debate is the respected representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36160	Thank you, Vice President. Today we are discussing the final proposal for a law amending the Penal Code and so on. 156 in which we suggest that all sexual harassment be prosecuted by official duty. This means that there is no period of 3 months since the authorised natural or legal person has learned of the criminal offence and the perpetrator, as set out in the present law, but that the criminal offence would be prosecuted by official duty, also by eradicating paragraph 3 of that article, it would be deleted from the provision that the criminal offence referred to in Article 1(1). 156 pursues the proposal unless it has been committed to a person particularly vulnerable to age. Such a legal solution has caused a number of situations where victims of this crime do not fall within the category of special vulnerability due to age, etc. they are forced to submit the very proposal to initiate the criminal proceedings. And what's going on? Witnesses have been the case since last year in which 17 women finally ventured and decided to file a complaint against their perpetrator but their application was rejected for reasons of overrunning the period of 3 months. For these reasons, we are asking for an amendment in this proposal. 156. KZ, and we demand that the provisions cease to apply that the victim of sexual harassment must be seas within 3 months. submit a proposal to prosecute the perpetrator. We need to be aware that there are still few women who are ready within three months. to the institutions to talk about sexual harassment, especially because of the people who abused them, the work, existence, education, etc. depends on them. For these reasons, all victims who are sexually harassed must be afforded equality and protection to encourage them not to remain silent but to report abuse and that they will not be subjected to public shame and that the perpetrator will eventually be punished. I hope you want to recognise this SDP initiative as a good and quality procedure because it is about strengthening the criminal and legal protection of victims of sexual harassment. Since it is a minimum change in the sense of intervention in the text of the already existing law and that it does not require additional funding to be provided in the state budget, I hope that we will bring these amendments in normal and collegiate tones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36161	Thank you. You have one replica, respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36162	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, we hear very often from the government the criticism that Prime Minister A. Plenkovic is saying that we can always help with a constructive proposal, and when it seems very often by this opposition, we find resistance and even the most vulnerable in society. How do you comment on the fact that the ruling have failed to provide more protection to victims under the pretext of harmonising the rules with the EU acquis and gave priority to red tape rather than protecting our citizens right now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36163	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36164	Thank you, fellow Martina. This attitude of the rulings in our country is nothing new to us, and unfortunately, we are used to the fact that everything else is more important to them than the interest of the individuals of the citizens themselves who suffer while they normably coordinate, meet, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36165	Thank you. My mistake, you have two replicas. Next is the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36166	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Nikolic, you have well noticed that this law does not require additional funds. But in order for this law to be passed, it requires a number of hands in the Croatian Parliament. So today’s rulings are not even the problem of funds, it’s not even an excuse, nor an excuse, it’s a problem for the ruling to admit that something is good. Not only to admit that something is good but to admit that something is needed by Croatian society, that something is needed by victims in Croatian society, was in most cases, 90% but 10% of men. Well, I don't understand how you'll be the same in six months. Look at all those victims that are going to happen during this period, and how are they going to deal with the fact that all these victims are suffering consequences, psychic consequences?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36167	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36168	Thank you, colleague Ivana. Well, yes, I fully agree with you that this implementation of these amendments does not require the provision of additional resources because in fact this amendment also provides stronger criminal and legal protection for all victims of sexual harassment. Why they don't want to accept it right now, I don't understand it either, but as I have already cited in the replica of the secretary of state, the victims don't have time and the victims can't wait to form a working body. Here I suggest that if there's already some working group working on it, why didn't you invite the opposition to participate? So if you stop a bit, if you get tired, we'll push you to bring the whole KZ change as soon as possible. We welcome this initiative to pass the Penal Code, the new Penal Code, because it is necessary, but I also believe that I fear we will experience the same fate as we have experienced with the Executive Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36169	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very That's it. The next individual debate is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll do more today and I'd like to talk more from this pay phone actually about one principle, perhaps less about the very bill we're discussing, but that principle of course applies to him very much. I mean, I think a colleague of the Dark-Taritash said that before me at the pay phone and she actually stole my introduction in some way, which is that at least there's some smudge here, that at least we have 1 kn, no more, even half a kuna, and that every time we heard...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36171	Excuse me for interrupting, please, I'll stop your time. I'm asking you nicely, if we have any private conversations, phone calls or any other kind, let's do it outside the assembly. Thank you very much. Go on, colleague Hajdukovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36172	Thank you, Vice President. So if we had half a kuna and for every time we've heard from the ruling, wait, wait, wait, we're working on a solution, it's going to be a complete solution, it's going to be something perfect, fantastic that's going to solve a lot of problems, I think we'd have a lot of scratches with a lot of money. And even though I'd like to and in fact, what Mr. Secretary of State is saying is very nice to hear, but practice disproves it, unfortunately. And that's the fact that every time we hear about working on a whole solution, on a complete solution, on a different, that it should be further modelled, discussed, seen within working groups the result was most often that we didn't see or see them much, much later, and we didn't accept the almost solution that we have now. I can only give you some examples. I'm sure you'll remember far in the past half of 2020 when the SDP Club proposed a whole series of laws on helping the economy, on helping citizens, on restoring Zagreb, etc., they were all rejected, all of them because they're not good. And when they came to the turn of the Government's proposals, a lot of the solutions in these legal proposals were actually prescribed. If you don't get me wrong, I'm not jealous that they did it, and I'm glad they actually took some good ideas into consideration, but I'm already slightly tired of being called to consensus, especially political consensus, especially on these sensitive things, but you know what the consensus is in HDZ's way. The consensus in HDZ's way is you agree to our terms and you will unconditionally accept it and you will not say anything. That's the only way we can get a consensus, and if we don't accept it then you know you're not a consensus, you're a vulture on sensitive issues, etc. That's actually my main argument about what we heard from the government. Will we really see a solution by May 31st, will these working groups complete the work? So I doubt again taught by experience. And I can give you some examples again. Let's say the agricultural strategy I mentioned earlier, Minister Tolusic said as soon as he became a minister he was about to get out of the press. The fact that she didn't just come out of the press, we waited another four years. Also national development strategies, it already exists, it's there, don't worry, then it's an earthquake, a pandemic, and then we modified it, so we've been waiting for the same thing for years. And again, it happened to us, a multi-year financial framework as if we weren't expecting it. I am already slowly and tired of the fact that good proposals are being rejected only because they are being proposed by the opposition because colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, I will draw your attention to the fact that we are responsible enough as an opposition, I will not say bravely, but I do not think it takes courage but responsibility. Responsible enough to support any proposal coming from your government or from you personally, so as representatives, MPs or clubs if we consider it to be in the interest of our citizens because that's why we're here at the end of the day. If we have almost a solution, and we have had it on many occasions, the solutions we have offered because we thought that this would help citizens or certain segments of society, I think the minimum responsibility of that policy is to support such a proposal. Because today we're talking about victims of sexual violence, tomorrow we're talking about helping the economy, the day after tomorrow we're gonna talk about something else entirely. I wish there was a draft of your law on the agenda, so that's why you're refusing us, but it's not, the question is when it will be and that's why I'm afraid we won't see anything until May 31st.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36173	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. The first is the replica of the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36174	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, how you comment on the ease of delaying the problem of citizens at all levels from local to national. Citizens are always called on to be patient either to provide basic living needs, whether to provide basic rights or to provide services in the community as children grow up, and young people move out. The level of empathy in society is minimal anyway, and thus contributes to the lack of hearing for the needs of their citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36175	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36176	Thank you very much, so, fellow Members, it's actually on the trail of what I was saying. So we're talking about solutions to our citizens' problems. So it doesn't matter who proposes them if they're solutions, and we've all agreed less than I've heard that these solutions will actually improve the current legal solutions that we have. So here are the best examples perhaps, the earthquake in Zagreb when it was in March 2020, which is now the month, which is now the year, the restoration has not yet begun properly, and we have proposed in the first half of 2020 legal solutions for the reconstruction of Zagreb. As an opposition, and now you tell me where the responsible relationship is with your citizens, where is the responsible relationship in this case with the victims of sexual abuse? I don't think he's here. We need to change this now, so if any whole solution comes along, we can easily change it. We're changing a bunch of laws on a daily basis, and I don't see why this one wouldn't change and help the victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36177	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36178	Thank you, Vice President. So I would just point out that this deadline imposed on victims of sexual harassment actually legally after the end of the three-month period, legally they drink dots is not worth doing the criminal part, but actually they wear it for life, carry the dots and carry that pain despite the fact that they haven't received that satisfaction to the perpetrator and be punished for it. The only thing I can understand by not accepting this amendment to the law is that the ruling does not show compassion for the victims of this crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36179	Replication response, colleague Hajdukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you know what my colleagues actually do, and I'm kind of afraid what that whole solution is going to make. Because if it's going to make a solution, let's say, now I'm pulling a parallel that may not be the happiest, but you'll understand what I'm saying. So, if it's going to be some sort of solution on the trail of reconstruction of Bania, then it's no solution, if, if it's for you to report sexual harassment, you have to have 80 documents, 3 witnesses, 12 witnesses, birth certificate, a marriage certificate, a housekeeper, a personal image, and I know if we did something, and we just did it with that law, even the government delayed it for a week because it's inconclusive. Are we going to have an inexhaustible solution again? This is a minimal intervention in the law, not asking for additional funds, so I don't see why we can't support it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36181	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic. Next individual debate, respected Rada Boric. As long as we wait only, Your Honor. Nikolic, when something isn't worth it, it's not piu dots, it's piu dots. I mean correctness works, only if something hasn't changed since I grew up. Here you go, ma'am. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36182	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, here I am again, not because women are not often trusted. In fact, women really don't often believe it, and then we're surprised when women don't report any form of violence. Women can't be trusted, but that's if they don't trust women and they don't trust women's associations that are 30 years old. are concerned about the story of violence against women at least not just nominally saying that we are all tolerated and that everywhere as it was in HUP zero tolerance to violence, etc., so that it would not be so and that women are not believed yet to be trusted in statistics. And today I've given statistics to the MUP which is an increase in the crimes of sexual harassment from, precisely, art. 156. KZ versus '17. And it increased by 55%, so back in '17. There were 26 of them in '18. 49, and 19. 59 cases. Now look, since we changed in the KZ on January 1st article that defined sexual intercourse without consent, we threw it out and what does the statistics say in just 11 months 2020? Statistics say 147 rapes have been reported, compared to sexual abuse, and we know that rape is a little more demanding than sexual harassment or abuse. So, 147 rapes, and in '19. There were 63 of them. An increase of 133% was interpreted by the MUP, not Rada Boric, precisely because of a change in the KZ from not one year ago. Reported attempted rapes were 16 last year, and a year before that 12. What it tells us is one fact that it's changed so it hasn't changed the whole law. Remember why it changed? Because the prime minister has promised the "Save Me" initiative to change. Well, I wish you'd remembered and changed this before because you know what's gonna happen? It's going to happen what I said and what my colleague from the SDP was saying. Not these 17 women, so 15 + 2 from the HUP they reported, who were found to be legitimate and whose applications were rejected. There will be these reports that you have now had, you know that there have been, reports both to the police and to the DORH, 15 days ago, 20 days ago and when you bring this change and their applications, and already there are 20 reports if not more, so their applications will fall into the water. So still consider why the urgency of this law should be? Do you want the whole initiative that has further sensitised the public that sexual harassment is not allowed, whether it's at the university, whether it's in the institutions, whether it's in our businesses, means the same thing will happen, or whether these women shouldn't testify to the police or the DORH if their applications are rejected. And from what it seems, if we were to bring all their applications into the emergency procedure, and we would show that this is indeed one way to implement the Istanbul Convention. And when you change the law then really look at some of the other articles in the convention that undertake to then enter the KZ. This is a small step for HDZ, but big for women.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36183	Thank you, well-respected representative Boric, you have one replica, please, you have a replica, please return to your position. Replica, the esteemed vice president of the HS Mrs. Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36184	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Boric, I'm so glad you mentioned this particular element. At the moment when we have one movement "I didn't ask for it," which dominates the entire region where women are encouraged to each other, and they haven't had the strength to report for several years that they're sexually harassed, sexually abused at their universities as students, as employees of HRT, some other institutions instead of at that moment when they're just encouraged and only empowered to talk about something that they didn't have the strength to help them create a legal framework that will protect them, we'll, in this way, reject this bill at this very moment put a dam on them and say no, you're going to go into obsolescence. We must not do this under normal circumstances, especially in this sensitive moment that happened now and the question is when will happen again that women will be so encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36185	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36186	Thank you, colleagues. When I showed statistics on the extremely increased number of rape applications since the change took place in the law, why do you think it happened, because the legal sanction there is no longer a year, it's no longer a minimum of a year but 3 because women would think so for rape I won't report that the rapist gets a year, and I'll be traumatized 10 times until I pass the whole process. So here and here, finally women are encouraged and should stop and society has become sensitized, instead of saying they are finally sensitized both women and men on the subject of sexual abuse. We know that it's inadmissible, let's now that women have encouraged themselves not to question the kind of trauma as many of them, which instead of really doing everything we say right now is done because it's urgent that these women's cases are now going to fall into oblivion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36187	Time, thank you. Next individual debate, respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36188	Dear Vice President of HS Mr. Škoro, Mr. Bukarica, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Violence against women, there's nothing more miserable in this world, there's nothing more miserable in the whole universe than when a man raises his hand to a woman, there's nothing more miserable in the whole world, there's nothing more miserable in the whole universe than when a man commits any form of violence against a woman. From the bottom of my soul, I despise men, despise these weaklings, despise these husbands, young men who have betrayed the habitat of men, and who commit in any way any violence against women. There is no punishment that courts can say, there is no, there is no, there is no that would be adequate, that would compensate for the pain, suffering emotionally, mentally or physically suffering a woman, who suffers one single time in her life from any man. From the bottom of my soul, I despise it, it's the right word, I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, and I despise it, from the bottom of my soul, and I despise it, and Violence against women is present in all societies, and a particular problem is a low number of reports of violence against women, there are many reasons. Fear of the perpetrators, don't be afraid, don't be afraid of women, don't be afraid of these weaklings, report them, report them, report them. You ask for help, there are those amongst men and amongst men and political options, regardless of the number of uniforms they wear that will stand by you against these thugs, against those bastards who betrayed men, masculinity as such. For too long, it's the state that needs to do everything it can. It can't go into any outdated procedure, it's inadmissible, it's inadmissible, it's inadmissible. Low sentences for the perpetrators, it's inadmissible, it's inadmissible, it's inadmissible. Repetio, there is no punishment enough to replace men who commit violence against women, does not exist. Distrust in competent institutions, let us all ask ourselves why this is so and why we have contributed to the institutions being those to whom our people trust. Fear that no one will believe them, fear not the dear woman, wherever she is, wherever you hear you report those evildoers. Yeah, yeah, they're just villains, you should say and call things a real name, they're villains, they're villains, they're villains, they're real villains, and society should treat them that way. The facts say that sexual violence is listed in the least reported crimes with the largest proportion of numbers, there are as many as 15 to 20 unreported rape cases in one reported case. The MUP reported that last 2020 recorded a decrease in the number of perpetrators of domestic abuses by 11% compared to 2019, but increased the number of crimes of domestic violence by 39.2%. I commend this proposal by my colleagues from the SDP, of course we will support it, so everyone will be able to support discreet things, it's completely irrelevant to that policy. You know what's fair and what's not fair, which is good, which is not good. That's what common sense says in prudence. And I will end up, yet I am theologian, with the Jewish Talmud, "The woman is made of a husband's ribs, not from his foot to be trampled on, not from his head to rule, but from his side to be equal, under his hand to be protected, beside the heart to be loved."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36189	Thank you very much. Don't go, please, come back. You have three replicas. Even though you've overstepped time, I'll tolerate it for you because repetition is the mother of knowledge. [[Intruder Miletic: I'm coming back, I'm ready.]] The first replica of the respected representative Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36190	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Miletic. I agree, and I commend and join the praises of my colleagues from the SDP on one of these very important and important things. On the other hand, I join all that you say, in fact, a man undoes himself by raising his hands to those he should protect. I would ask you, what do you think would be an adequate and lasting way for the state as such to protect victims of violence?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36191	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36192	I would use my colleague Kujundzic's replica to say one more thought, and I read on Face someone wrote how she dressed herself. That's what makes me puke. So women are entitled to whatever they want and it doesn't give you the right to treat them in any way other than respecting them, having the right to forgive me for this expression, in heels and thongs you don't have the right to touch them, let alone do something else, you don't have the right to do it. As far as your question is concerned, there is, at least as far as I know, a safe house in St. Anne, one sister Susanna has led her for years, and now the second is the guidance for victims of domestic violence and for women who have been oppressed. I think maybe even if the city had something there, it's very important that both local self-government and state-level help these women in every way that when that horror happens, at least then they feel protected, at least then. At least then. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36193	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36194	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I'm going to spread a little bit of what you've been saying and use the fact that you're a trustee at the invitation. We agree that a great contempt for violence is a man to women, but so is violence against children. So this article we're talking about 156 clearly states that children are included here, so people are vulnerable because of age. Do you think that the state and society as a whole are working enough to sensitize themselves from the earliest age or to sensitize children and to recognize what any kind of violence is, and especially now this sexual harassment. Yesterday was the National Day of Fight against peer violence, it's being talked about in schools, we've been doing presses, etc., but I don't think it's enough to work on that education and sensitization from the earliest age, so that then those kids who grow up know what violence is and encourage them to report it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36195	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36196	Yeah, I wore that pink bracelet yesterday, too. Of course we're not doing enough and it's a very complex process now. Why? First because the bullys are the ones who have huge wounds, and they need the same help. So no one commits violence because he's healthy. You're sick and you're making violence. Violents are always the drums of whether it's one way or the other. So the state needs to ensure that it helps them because they're sick, and then, of course, it's a victim of violence. And of course we should explain to our kids that they would tell the Greeks if I remember correctly, now that they hear me from a high school professor bia bian tictei, the force of birth, every force gives birth to force. In fact, it should be explained to the kids that it is worth the fair way to walk that it is a much harder path, but that it is certainly more successful without any violence. Only love changes a man, I believe in it deeply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36197	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36198	My dear colleague, Mr. Miletic, would actually refer to the inquiry of my colleague Maric, given your long-standing experience of working with young people, how much young or young people are encouraged at all, so that they have been abused and what is your experience with this and how did you deal with it as a person who was exposed to working with young people?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36199	The answer to the line, please, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36200	Thank you. I was a high school student for 14 years. When I got to school in school, I got class and all the 14 years I worked I was a classroom and in everything I do I'm kind of giving myself 100%. So that's how it is. And many times the kids came to me with certain difficulties, I think let this be a message to your parents, talk to your kids, and when you think you're talking enough then talk more and when you think you're talking too much then still talk to them because it's rare for parents in the hurry that we are in, no one should be tried, and we're all in the madness that we're in, and then sometimes we ignore what we shouldn't ignore. And then when these kids of ours experience some trauma, peer violence, or God doesn't give it sexually or someone else happens often that parents find out last, and that's not good, that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36201	Thank you very much, that would be it, we've exhausted all the replicas, we're moving on with individual debates. If I may say so, you have refreshed this debate with your own personal dictionary and syntax. The next individual debate is a respected representative of Martina Vlasic Iljkic. The microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36202	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs, the purpose of this proposal is the protection of victims of sexual harassment, the protection of women from being put in an unfavourable position and a violation of the dignity of women or victims. This should be emphasized, and in the focus of our presentations, we should bear in mind that we listen to numerous victims who need support from us in the interruption of unwanted behaviors that are systematically happening to them. The debate on postponing the adoption of this proposal for the planned more comprehensive amendments to the Penal Code in order to bring national rules into line with the acquis does not offer support and protection for victims, but now that assistance is needed. It is devastating now to reject the proposal to amend the law for a more comprehensive change and harmonisation, thus sending a clear message that it is more important to comply with the rules than to protect citizens already now. If our interest is to protect the victim and to add importance to our discussions, then we do both the right thing and strengthen the victims for registration. In this direction we need to develop a system of inter-resorship cooperation in which each portfolio will do its job professionally and in accordance with the rules of the profession. Distrust in the legal system is often due to the reporting of numerous domestic violence. Mild sentences, fines, non-encouragement of mandatory treatment or psychosocial treatment of the perpetrators do not cause changes in the behavior of the perpetrators and do not solve the problem in the offenders. Often and inadequate behaviour, under-professional behavior by officials is enough to make the victim feel untrustworthy and not have a good opinion on the outcome of the whole process. The Protocol on the treatment of sexual violence requires the handling of all competent authorities and the need for continued education of involved experts dealing with this problem. All experts employed in bodies involved in detecting and combating sexual violence and providing protection for the assistance and support of victims of sexual violence are obliged to participate in regular education related to the field of their work. Why is it really important to report sexual violence and sexual harassment? According to the Protocol on the Treatment of Sexual Violence, a small number of reports by the police or other bodies also affect the work of the entire judicial system, the work of the criminal system in the conduct of proceedings and condemnation, the punishment of the perpetrator and the lack of services to help victims of sexual violence, as well as the lack of therapeutic programmes to work with violentrs. Furthermore, a small number of applications also create the impression that it is a form of violence that is extremely rare. And which should not be in a more significant focus of social interest. The majority of applications will provide a clear picture of the spread of sexual violence in the community, give key and necessary information to address the problem in order to include key stakeholders to create answers and enable the development of different prevention programmes. The causes of non-reportation of sexual harassment according to the 2019 prosecutor's report on gender equality are the concerns of the victim's existence, loss of work in the event of application, fear of social and business stigma, mistrust in the work of institutions, long-term court proceedings and the fact that we are trying to change the case, that the procedure is initiated on the basis of the victim's proposal and not on official duty as well as the uneasy victims to testify on the manner and occasions of sexual harassment. Women victims go to sick leave or withdraw from their duties or functions to avoid the bully and are deprived of the right to a decent life and work. Despite the growing number of sexual harassment reports, the prosecutor's report says there is an increase in the number of anonymous complaints that suggests victims lack confidence and do not feel that they have sufficient support in the system. What she would end up adding as a special problem is sexual harassment if it is a particularly vulnerable group, whether because of illness, age, disability, addiction, pregnancy, severe physical or mental disorder. The data on sexual harassment of these groups are even more inaccessible and as a society we need to give special attention to protecting these groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36203	We have three replicas, the first distinguished representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36204	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues, in your debate, you stated that only the Ombudsman for gender equality in his report for 2019 referred to the causes of non-reportation of sexual harassment due to the fear of outcomes of the application, therefore increased the number of anonymous applications. Do you feel that the adoption of this amendment would further strengthen and encourage other women to openly and safely report a criminal offence at the moment when they themselves decided to talk about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36205	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36206	Thank you. Well, of course, it means by shortening or restricting the application and complaint to 3 months. the victim is put at risk of not being able to strengthen himself psychologically through advisory work and through working with experts in order to enter into the whole legal process and legal procedure. So first, it is necessary to strengthen the woman in a psychophysical sense, provide her with the necessary support of experts, and further provide legal support and assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36207	Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36208	Thank you. Comrades, I think you've touched a very important issue, which is the education of all institutions and individuals who need to work with the victim or who need to recognize violence and harassment. I'll give you an example and that's mentioned here in the last debate, it's through the education system. On the one hand, you have a chronic lack of professional associates, such as educators and psychologists who have such education as access to the victim, how to work with the victim, and how to protect a potential victim. On the other hand, the teachers, and I was a teacher myself, a professor, don't, may have changed something by now... generation but my generation didn't have any education, how to put themselves in such situations, how to recognize abuse, how to protect a abused person, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So again I'm saying, we can adopt 100 conventions and 100 laws, but we don't implement what we have, and by ruling, they assure us that everything is beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36209	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36210	Thank you. I agree that experts, psychologists, educators have knowledge that they have acquired during their university education to deal with such a problem but what is missing is the education of teacher, teacher staff, education, even directors and all those who come into contact with such a problem at all. What is prescribed in all strategies is always the education of experts and competent authorities dealing with problems, domestic violence, or sexual harassment, or sexual violence. Education is systemically lagging out in all fields, and if it is organized, it may be organized in one institution for one teacher, it brings nothing to us or to one school, in one county. So, systematic, a systematic education is needed where everyone will learn the skills and need of knowledge to recognize these forms of violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36211	Next replica, distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36212	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have brought forth several important things about sexual harassment, education, prevention, etc., it is very important that you said that there is a fear of social and business stigma. How do you comment on the fact that we've witnessed not so long ago that actually the public, the media writings, and what would be said to be some sort of opinion about it is someone's fault or not guilty? So, I'll remind you, I'm not going to mention names, of course, of some kind of application or something. on concrete reports in a police department where the environment has decided that the victim of the Malta does not invent, and the one who is ultimately disciplined turns out to be guilty. So, a clear comment on these media inscriptions that certainly contributes to further traumatization of the victim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36213	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36214	Thank you. Well, I'm sure we actually have to go from there, we all have to act in, have a starting point of zero tolerance for any violence, domestic violence, sexual violence, sexual harassment, and that's only by education. It has already been stated here since the earliest age that education is needed, that since kindergarten age we need a way of treating each other in kindergarten, group work, the way they enter the world of education, and later on in the world of work, so that's something to learn, that's not something and that's why we have sensational inscriptions, and that's why we have opinions and comments on social networks just because we're not leaving that starting point, and that's zero tolerance to violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36215	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36216	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. There is much to be said today about this subject, and I believe that here many of us will agree that this topic is not diminished, each of us is giving it exactly as much attention as it needs in this complex, layered and difficult subject, and the goal is actually the same to all of us, which is to provide comprehensive support and prevent violence of any kind in society, especially sexual violence, violence against any category of people, and in this sense it is not possible to talk about any demeaning of this proposal or refusal rather than simply about the fact that, as it was already said at the beginning of the three committees on the subject of sexual harassment where indeed the three committees have come to work, and therefore it is going to be one more comprehensive amendment, and I will remind you that there was also a the thematic session of the three committees on the subject of sexual harassment where we have brought together a common conclusion that it is necessary to make an analysis of the whole way of violence and that there is not only the consequation that we can be made. So I agree that one, one whole analysis of the overall legislative framework should be made. And when we talk about the improvement of the legislative framework, then I do indeed argue and I stand behind that if any government has so far proven its attitude towards any type of violence, especially violence against women, children, family violence, and if any government has so far shown zero tolerance to any type of violence, it is the government of Andrej Plenkovic, who has, in the past, but also in this term, significantly improved criminal and criminal legislation, so particularly in the past term. I will remind you, although we have said so, so we have changed the KZ, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Protection against Family Violence, whether and of course these changes have achieved a sharper punishment, faster and more effective processing of perpetrators of criminal offences. I would like to remind you that the concept of a rape crime has been changed, where rape is considered to be also any sexual relationship or sexual intercourse with it, etc. This, I believe, is that we are all familiar with this and in this sense I believe that even after these changes, ultimately statistics show this, that there has been an increase in the number of reports, a report of violence, and that it is saying that indeed women and all victims of violence are encouraged to report violence, and on that path we should go on anyway. I have a need here for a short time just as long as it allows me to tell you although I won't reach everything, but everything this government does in terms of supporting victims of violence, therefore both in terms of prevention and in terms of action when violence occurs, and then in terms of treatment and victims, but also, but also in order to prevent on one side additional... , and on the other hand repeat works [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't talk about, about the funds invested on an annual basis in all the programs because it can be learned from the budget. So I'm going to say that we are currently completing the process of shelters or safe houses and shelters for women in all the remaining counties, 6 in which shelters are missing. Contracts were signed with Virovitičko-podravska, Koprivnica-križevci and Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and Krapina-Zagorska, Požega-slavonska and Ličko-Senj County are in the stage of overrunning, all of them have temporary solutions for safe houses. This is the way to permanent solutions and 70 million kunas are provided for this purpose. The 24-hour SOS phone line is running from 25.11. so far until 19 February 243 calls of victims have been received, therefore strong support is provided, and here they may be either through replicas or already in someone of interest I can talk about a new project, which is currently going in terms of education. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36217	Here we have a few replicas, the first distinguished representative of Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36218	Thank you. Here, dear colleague Bedekovic. So, here we all agree here in the House that the amendments to this Penal Code in this part of it are necessary, we disagree on when to do it or move to change right now according to this urgent procedure, or here you are, so we need to set up a task force, a task force to make comprehensive changes and then come up with these comprehensive changes here in Parliament. Here, so I'm trying to figure out, so far I haven't been able to, here, can you explain to me what a shame it is to bring this law with this amendment right now, what damage will happen under the law of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36219	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36220	My fellow Members, we have already talked about this, and it is clear to you and everyone here who is present that the amendment of the Penal Code is currently in the procedure, the working group is doing its job, so these amendments that we are talking about will be introduced into it, and about all other amendments and further more comprehensive approaches, and you have witnessed this and the joint session of all three committees, so where we have really reached a common conclusion, of course, that a more comprehensive analysis, therefore, of the overall legislation, not only of criminal law but also of other laws that regulate this issue, is not possible now and immediately, is it? It's not possible to make tomorrow. Therefore, there should be very serious, very systematic approach so that we can cover this issue in a more appropriate way from different aspects, and we aim together to support and encourage victims of violence and, of course, to reduce cases of violence against women, domestic violence, violence against children, violence against men, general violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36221	Next replica, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36222	Thank you. Here, I have to repeat because I don't understand it either, so this is about a simple, textually unrequited, but explicitly, the consequences of a far-reaching change that will allow sexual harassment to be prosecuted by official duty. So now we can immediately ensure all victims of sexual harassment that an adequate legal remedy and that the state behind them stands in criminal persecution. I don't understand why we shouldn't do it right now and why we wait months, half a year, and maybe by the end of the year, if the task force does its job, when it's clear that we have a consensus among all the MPs, that that's exactly the change we need to make. We don't need additional analysis to know that persecution on the proposal isn't a good model for stopping sexual violence and punishing the perpetrator.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36223	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you either don't understand or, I would say, obviously, you won't understand. So, we've already explained, again and again, that the amendments to the Penal Code in the procedure... The amendments to the Penal Code are in the procedure, the task force is doing its job, and this proposal will be introduced. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36225	Here you are, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36226	Injury. 238 for insulting MPs, in a way that he doesn't understand something, and that's how it's justified that the law is in the procedure, he's not in the parliamentary procedure, but there's a working group that the government has established and is working on the proposal, so it's not about the law being in the procedure, so now he might come quickly, but we don't really have a date yet, neither you know, nor any of us can know when it's going to be. and we can solve the problem now [[Intruder: Time.]] here and now. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36227	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica, you have a warning. The next replica, the distinguished representative of Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36228	Dear colleagues, Bedekovic, and something on the same trail, as it was not disputed, that proposal by Mr. Plenkovic, and I would very much like it to be, that his idea to change this because right now it's as urgent as we've changed and it wasn't working groups and it hasn't changed the law, so we changed the definition of what rape is, and as you told us, they've been finishing up, in six counties, overrunning, since '18. Mr. was supposed to be, for example. Only an SOS phone, which is easy to do, he only worked late last year. So if we believe how working groups work, how things are done, we'll wait three years, after the task force, and we still have a public debate. Indeed, these women who have now reported these cases will go back into old age according to this legislation that we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36229	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36230	Thank you very much, dear colleague. As for the SOS phone, so he didn't just work, the SOS phone was working. But since 25.11., therefore it has been expanded and improved and allowed to continue work so that the National Call Centre for Victims, on 24 hours a day for all 7 days a week including holidays and including Sundays and likewise, has employed 5 additional persons exclusively to support victims of violence. And in this whole story, in the work of securing this line, employment, etc., all I have so far listed is 3 million kuna. That's how much it cost, and so much has been done, and all of that, so your question that was similar to your colleague's about amending the law, I've answered it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36231	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36232	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. Surely you have explained this very well and surely that violence in all of our society is a serious approach, we all have to do it together and that is what the government is doing all the time. And I believe that our working groups, during the time ahead, that we must look at both women and all our social communities that we must set them on the same goal, to make it better, to make this law more quality, more recognizable. And I certainly also think that what my colleagues in the SDP, and I believe that these are noble and very important facts, I just think that by this quick procedure, I don't get it, here's why we do this thing in a hurry when we can do it better, to be one together, all of us together that there's no need for this kind of thing to come up with this kind of repercussion and misunderstood. Here, please explain that one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36233	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36234	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, that's what I said at first, really in the best sense and in the best faith, that we all have the same goal, no one demeans this proposal, but I'll say it, the technical nature of the situation we're in. So, changing the law of the criminal is currently being done, the working groups of colleagues are working, so the task force is doing its job. And on the legal side, I'm not a lawyer, but I've been in the House long enough to realize that the Penal Code is an organic law and that here I really don't see, I don't see why I can't change an organic law twice in three months.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36235	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36236	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Here is my colleague Jelkovac, on behalf of the club, in fact, listed everything that is relevant, just like her colleague Bedekovic. I don't think anyone in this Chamber is questioning any form or sexual harassment of any form of violence, whether against women, or we can say over the victim or any action, it's a verbal action, non-verbal action, or some physical unwanted behavior that is sexual in nature that is intended or really a violation of the dignity of a person who causes fear, hostile humiliation or offensive environment. What I want to point out here is that I think it may not have been well understood, and that is the demystification of the victim that's a lot of talk about here and where the impression is created if we don't "now" adopt this bill by the SDP to actually lose any form of legal protection. So I think we all agree it's not true and it doesn't stand, so that's not true. Here they also date out of date, so it's outdated if we're looking legally not, I think that colleague Boric said outdated, so it's obsolete, something else, a legal institute that's out of date. Here we are talking about a three-month period since it can be reported, so in accordance with Article. 47. The law on criminal proceedings, however, after that you have the possibility to file a private suit within eight days of the rejection of the criminal application, the victim potentially. On the other hand, if we are already talking about the application, the victim is reporting either under the current law or under the new law when it is adopted, and I hope that it will be within this time frame, as the Secretary of State said, will also have to inform the body, report the act. So, there will be no loss of this segment that is worst for the victim, and we all agree, that it must go through that negative event again and think about it again and re-register it to a body, whether it is proposed under the current legislative proposal and Article. 47. The CAP, either by a new future legal solution. What I also want to mention is 2011 A new Penal Code has been passed, entered in 1.1.2013, a new act of sexual harassment has been introduced, so until 1.1.2013 since the new Penal Code of the Crime was entered, it was not in the Croatian legal system. What does that mean? So that's what the HDZ government brought in, we have to be clear, I don't think we have to be ashamed of it, I think that's a good thing. But what am I saying? All these reports that are happening today, and there are many and many of them who have committed acts of sexual harassment before 1.1.2013, and those crimes have brought me these and adopted them today, either in 6 months or in a year a new legal solution will not fall, and it will not be possible if at that time of this crime there was no, there is no retroactive application of the Penal Code, I think it is equally important to stress it. The promoter mentioned here that it was time for the government to move from word to action, if I'm not mistaken, I think those words were said, and for that very reason I wanted to say, so the government moved from word to deed in 2011, the government moved from word to deed in 2019. when it's exactly that art. 156. The Penal Code tightened the fines where a suspended sentence was prescribed for a year to two years. And well said also by the promoter, here I agree that the Penal Code is one of the most important, most important laws passed by HS, so it is an organic law, which is confirmed by the Constitutional Court if I am not mistaken in 2003, so most of the votes of all MPs are needed for its adoption. And for that very reason, I find it necessary to be a certain seriousness when it comes to its adoption. We all agree that the victim is the one to be protected, but I say and I appeal it is not good that in amending such a law as the Penal Code we are going through, I would say some dotted changes. I don't think it's a good message, I don't think it's good, anyway if we go into this procedure that's prescribed she'll pass and consult the interested public and who says there won't be any other better suggestions than yours or perhaps an even better proposal to which the government will refer or refer to this assembly and as he said during this period if I'm not mistaken on 31 May of this year. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36237	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36238	Well, here's the second question, but now you've prompted me with a syntagm of dotted changes, so I hope you'll change the law yourself because we see what the mood is like, even though you're saying that there's no way that it's going to go out of date to read the conclusion of our 3 committee where it's exactly that way and it's talking, and you're still proposing private lawsuits which isn't our goal here was that women continue to be used in private lawsuits. About changing the dotted if you want something better, would you, so you have such a very good law, if we're finally just talking about the victims today, so you've also used a syntagma of the victim's demystification, whether you might apply something that exists, and it's called burden of evidence, that the burden of evidence is not on the victim, and that's what we have in the Law of Victims of Sexual Abuse in the Homeland War. Well, it seems to me if you're going to improve the law, so look at that commission in the law, so I think we're finally removing focus from the victim who's gonna demystify them as you said. So let's deal with the perpetrators. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36239	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36240	Thank you very much. I'm sorry if this is what you said to the synthesism of the victim's demystification offended someone, so it wasn't my intention, I just wanted to clarify what we're talking about, so it doesn't turn out or I can't agree that it's exactly what you're talking about. As far as the burden of evidence is concerned, I'm absolutely into it, so when we talk about the victim, it's always taken care of and goes from the position of a person who has a property or is in the legal regime of the victim to be first. And I absolutely agree that, in that sense, we should even our legal practice in that sense, and I think that none of our colleagues or colleagues should think differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36241	The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36242	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, you said that the government has moved from word to deed, and I really agree with you here. I would like to remind you that in 2017, a new Law on protection against domestic violence, which was changed in 2019, was adopted just to strengthen criminal justice policy. In the same way as reviewing the forms of domestic violence and extending the circle of persons to whom the law applies. It is then redefined and physical violence in such a way that in cases where it results in injury it passes into the sphere of criminal legal protection, rather than more criminal. The Criminal Procedure Act has also been amended to speed up criminal proceedings and strengthen precautionary measures, and the Penal Code has also been amended to strengthen penalties. At that time, there are also higher special minimum sentences for crimes of domestic violence, mutilation of female sexual organs, bodily injury to a close person, injuries The child's rights. [[Intruder: Time.]] So what I'm saying is that it's already done a lot, and it's still going to work in continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36243	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36244	Thank you very much, colleague, here you have succeeded in a minute, although it was too little for you to list what was actually done in this Continuity Government as you often like to say here, I'm not sure maybe you haven't been able to mention it and actually the Labour Act that also has the institute and allows for exactly those workers, there have been enough here today in fact words about the context exactly, and the overpower and the relationship between the employer and the worker. There are also certain institutions that enable workers to better protect protection in the segment of harassment, as well as in this part of the mobbing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36245	Next replica, distinguished representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36246	Thank you very much. An esteemed colleague will look back on that part of your debate in which you spoke truly about the continuity of the government and previous HDZ governments in the view of the inadmissibility of every type of violence and we have listed, and we can repeat again which laws were therefore amended in order to prosecute them in an appropriate way, and then sanctioned the perpetrators of violence. And I'll remind you, and I think you did, but I need to remind again that the act of sexual harassment in 2011 was first introduced into the Penal Code as a new criminal offence. The truth is the Penal Code came into force in 2013, but it was done so at the time of the HDZ government, and so there is continuity. After all, speaking of Istanbul which is not a topic, we know very well whose government is when the Istanbul Convention is signed, and when it is in the assembly ratified, at the time of the HDZ government. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36247	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36248	Thank you very much. So I can only repeat or absolutely agree with you what you said, I can only repeat that. So, does the victims of this particular criminal act that falls under sexual harassment have a major problem with the inability to even initiate any proceedings before 2013. In fact, the Penal Code has come into force so that it was brought into effect during the HDZ government and I agree with you about this for the Istanbul Convention as much as this isn't the topic that has somehow been imposed here today, especially in this part, has been ratified precisely during the HDZ government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36249	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36250	Congratulations on introducing amendments to the Penal Code, congratulating the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which is a topic because it stipulates that such cases are processed under official duty in its Article 55, as stated today. I'm interested in this pointy approach of yours, and we've all been talking about how this is a good thing, and your only hold-up is why now rather than later. I will repeat the question to my colleague, Pulak, whom your colleague Bedekovic did not want to answer, please answer me directly and clearly. What's the harm in doing this now, and then proceed with the rest of the planned change package as planned? Why not now, what's it about to stop you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36251	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36252	Thank you very much. Well, I'll answer you something different. So, if theoretically on May 31st I think he said State Secretary, mentioned date as an opportunity to adopt the new Penal Code, and if you theoretically have a victim of a sexual harassment crime today, don't God forbid, what that victim will do 2. Six? They'll go on official duty. Yeah? Because at that time, there will be a Penal Code to rule out an article. 47. The CAP. Where's the damage? No harm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36253	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36254	Your Honor, Vice President. Agent, here you are and how much this government has done to improve the law all these years. And if we all agreed together that it was a victim, that it was the basis of both these discussions and all these laws, then why would it really be here, to me it's not as clear as my colleague is, I don't understand why it would get into such a speedy decision that would not make any of the victims any good? And since they had a chance in the past few years and they brought it in fast, and they didn't, it seems to me that you're very well here, you called it a dotted initiative that would be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36255	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36256	Thank you very much. I may not have actually mentioned in my individual debate, or perhaps I was going to say, so here today we are talking exclusively from the victim's position and that's good because it is also supposed to be in focus but I will also allow myself perhaps a professional deformity, given that I am a lawyer, should also take care of this second segment, so people whose law is criminal, the CAP, the tool and who today-to-morrow in court or in some other procedure will be governed by that law. From every sudden change, the dotted changes as I have called them, I don't think they're ever a good solution, so I think it's much better to go with a comprehensive solution, and I still think it's possible and there's certain that there will be a public consultation process, and it's always possible that we can get a better and much better solution. Finally, I believe that this is not a topic of having political winners, of collecting political points, but of having a reasonable discussion of how to provide the highest quality protection to the victims and to those who have passed what they wear should go through and don't give God to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36257	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36258	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about sexual harassment today, we are talking about a criminal offence currently being prosecuted according to the proposal. the victims of such a crime must within 3 months. report abuse resulting in a number of cases of abuse victims being delayed by filing a report, so that there is no prosecution of the perpetrator, which is inadmissible. What is important again today is that this proposed amendment to the law will allow the victim to decide for himself when he is ready to report violence because very few people are ready within 3 months. to talk about sexual and sexual harassment, especially infrequently to persons who have abused them, depends on work, existence, or education. Very often it is about continuous behavior occurring over a longer period of time and for which the victim cannot find a systematic solution until the current law, the victim, protects her, but discourages her. Examples of sexual harassment are numerous, commenting on physical appearances, direct or indirect calls for certain sexual activities, unwanted touching, proposing sexual relations as a condition for progress, starting conversations on intimate and sexual issues, trying to achieve sexual acts, unwanted sexual comment or a proposal aimed at persons and their sexuality, and other difficult forms of sexual harassment. Therefore, by adopting the proposed amendments to this law, we will ensure greater protection of the victim and provide the victim with a legal framework in which she will be protected from her abusers. It is vital that victims can speak freely and be protected from their abusers. So I find it amazing that the government is looking for an excuse for the situation of abused persons and has not accepted this initiative to amend the Penal Code, which, I'll be free to say, is 30 years late. It is only right, adequate and acceptable that the criminal act of sexual harassment is prosecuted by official duty or that, instead of the victim, the perpetrator pursues the DORH, if our goal is to reduce violence because this amendment in the law will surely discourage the perpetrator and I expect that this proposal will support each of us in these assembly benches on behalf of all those who have experienced and experience harassment, humiliation and violence. In the name of all those whose dignity has been violated. We're changing society together for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36259	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36260	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the first six months. So what we want to change in law was almost 190, 186. The perpetrators were 230 something, I don't know by heart, now I've read them before, why, because by preparing not only... as well as last year, we met with working bodies within the county, with the police, with representatives of civil society and, of course, what the esteemed colleague Jelkovac said, this is true, so there was an improvement because in the debate that was very professional and competent two things were considered, which are also related to the pandemic itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, this tightening, therefore, in the matter of penalties or sanctions, therefore, from the offence to, without further ado, has contributed to an increase in the application, so that is what the police have claimed, the part that deals with it. But it also came from, from civil society, a warning that Valda is most likely due to pandemic circumstances, the first violence is less reported than someone, for a previous period. And these changes, mentioned, mentioned by a colleague... They're also somewhat dotted, not that they're not dotted. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the question of one other thing, and I'm just going to point out one fact because it's a very important fact. So, when something is published in the National Journal, it doesn't say who is the author of the law, or who has initiated the procedure, or who is voted with most of it. There is no copyright in politics, we simply pass laws based on the Rules of Procedure and the way it stands. The question of whether or not something is an organic law determines first and foremost the way it must be voted, therefore not relative but absolute, but absolute majority, that is the difference and another part that is related to the procedure, so that is the issue of public debate and so on. This is one small dot, without further adot. I, it is completely irrelevant to me, whether it is based on, this on, on the Convention, so on the Istanbul Convention, it is irrelevant to me whether it is based on other European acquiss, as well as somewhat on the part which is related to certain recommendations by and by UNICEF. If we do something, we have to do it for our sake and for our citizens' sake not to get along with someone. For our sakes, we have to do it, for the sacrifices I've already mentioned. The victim is a victim, the tear has no color, that tear is neither SDP nor HDZ nor MOST, nor the Homeland Movement. And where's the problem, where's the problem? I'm listening to the debate about this. We'll do something whole. Yesterday I was saying that the budget was late delivered to the assembly, he says because of the pandemic, in the previous meeting it was delivered. It was a replica of a colleague. I went to check it out, it's not true. So, in replicas let's not lie, I went to check, not to the assembly within which it was meant to be. There were elections okay, but the government could've sent it to the assembly, the other thing is when the assembly's gonna discuss what the badway doesn't have a legal deadline. So at least let's not lie about these things as well as anyone else. There's nothing else to solve here but behavior, and I'm going to tell you why because I've discussed both the government's programme and the legislation that regulates the regulation of which, the government's regulations, I've talked about the problem of civil protection and the discrimination of the active composition and the mobilized composition in part of the journal, and I've kept warning about it. As president of the county assembly, I've written to the MUP twice where they said that we're going to regulate it as fully as we're talking about, about this law. And what do we have in the procedure? We have the Civil Protection Act and compliance with EU regulations. It's not a complete solution, and it's written to me, I'm going to show you that it's going to be a complete solution because this is how we have this person who's mobilized or a volunteer in civil protection who's now receiving 150 kuna, and the person who's working in the MUP has 200 kunas. Well, sit down, I mean, I know that, yeah, that maybe I'm an antipathic, so sit down and write down what's good is good. I'm not jealous [[Intruder: Time]] [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36261	You have one replica. ... Yeah, you're a little excited, but you have a replica. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Željko Pavić is a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36262	Your Honor, you've become a little angry, I'm going to try to please you a little bit. Uh, we've heard more than once today the thesis that the Istanbul Convention was adopted at the time of the HDZ government. But that doesn't mean anything to a bully, it hasn't changed any laws. After that, we had an obligation since 2018. Until today, to change these laws, we haven't changed them. We tried to ask here on several occasions what a shame it is if the law changes today or Friday when we can vote for that law, for that change? Of the few colleagues who came from the HDZ ranks, as far as we can hear the great lawyers, we haven't heard the answer, we haven't heard the answer from the respected secretary. Do you know what this is about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36263	... In that sense, she has her values. [[Last-on speaker]] Each country could accept part of the convention, so it couldn't accept the whole text of the convention, that's one thing. Secondly, when it is accepted by an international standard he is talking about the minimum does not talk about the maximum, and that is why I said I don't care, I don't care about the Istanbul Convention, but it's something that we have to worry about as a state for our citizens to improve it. So here I don't care at all in that part that, I know that it's challenged by some ideological principles, but it's a matter of ideology, but in that case there's that part of the chapter that's acceptable I think for everything, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36264	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36265	The Honorable Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, the initiative we have in front of us is certainly commendable and we Croatian sovereigns have accepted it in all its segments, in all aspects of the protection of victims of sexual harassment, it is a duty for each of us to be on the side of this sacrifice and to do everything in our power, and in particular we, the parliamentary representatives, to advocate amendments to the legislation provided by these people, those persons, to be affected by such a grave threat to their dignity of sexual freedom, constitutional values that protect them, to allow them to feel some civilised in fact, one, one, the only and possible legally prescribed tool to fight against people who threaten them with fundamental human rights, and therefore it is incomprehensible that, from their colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, they feel resistance to this initiative, that they feel in this way one away from a good initiative that they have at their beginning, in fact, in fact, in fact, they have long ago, had all of government, in the past 4 years ago. Well, it's quite understandable that the victim must be given full support to the state under such circumstances to... under official duty, procedures are initiated, that the victim, who is already in his own catastrophic state, personal, family, to put the state ahead of her and to take her, as in other cases, if we do, is she less valuable than the person who has been robbed, is she less valuable than the whole series of other crimes where the state is acting under official duty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in the meantime, certain legal acts have been adopted, international legal acts which oblige us to act like this, and I do not know, indeed, that this observation by our colleague, Deura, when he says, Croatian sovereigns, have, in their mind, supported the SDP proposal in the protection of one initiative. Well, dear colleague Deur, well, Croatian sovereigns are just because they are sovereigns, which is why any proposal that is in favour of the Croatian people, Croatian citizens, will support it just by not looking at the party's narrow party interests. Well, we have supported many of yours, Mr. Deur, many of the HDZ proposals we supported for this short period of 5.6 months the moment we realized that they were in favour of the Croatian people. So we see that this is for the benefit of the Croatian sacrifice and of the Croatian, for the benefit of our children, our daughters, our sisters, our mothers. The more valuable it is, the more we went to war to prevent violence. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary, and these working groups that work now, respected colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, I was at least 2 working groups to amend the Penal Code, will not be, quote me, will pass the end of the year, will not come here, and in the meantime the tens, don't give God, but tens of our sisters, brothers, possibly and daughters, will be at the opportunity of this woman and, in any other way, be demoted to deal with her bully who is in a position of power. So let's go now, we're not gonna lose anything, and we're gonna get a lot. We will get a lot in the eyes of the Croatian public and in the eyes of the Croatian victim, and you from HDZ will get something because you will finally show that you tolerate what comes from the opposition And you swear you'll do whatever's right. [[Intruder: Time.]] from the opposition and accept. [[Intruder: Time.]] This is good, accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36266	We have one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36267	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, surely, I agree with you, sovereignty is an important thing and an important factor in every country. The HDZ has achieved sovereignty during the time of the Croatian state, and you know for yourself what is the essence of sovereignty, is not just one sentence where some individuals who were not at that time were not part of it. For this reason, I don't see why you and your SDP colleagues wouldn't have a common item, and I'm assuming it's in history, you're a man of the system who understands that, that history is important to us. And that they're the most important thing in common. [[/Intruder: Time. Time.]] What President Tudjman created, sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36268	This wasn't Please, please, please, Your Honor. [[Intruder: Yes, I can only agree.]] It wasn't a replica. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[I'm sorry.]] And since it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, [[Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.]] Deura, and you have a replica, Your Honor, you have a replica of the distinguished representative Marin Miletic. [[And he didn't need you, as far as I'm concerned, but good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36269	Dear Representative Sacic, Mr. Vice President of HS Sanader, I'm personally glad to hear it, see, I also disagree at the end, with your club in a lot of things, but great general, you're showing the width again as shown by many of you heroes in '91. When the homeland was to be defended, when it was to stand on the bumper of the homeland, then it was not seen who was wearing any color uniforms, it was not seen whether anyone preferred to listen to Pink Floyd, Dire Straits, or some eastern light jumps, but was known to defend the homeland. And now you're showing again that you care about women in the Republic, that you care about protecting women and just looking wide. This to our society and here in the Parliament, there are more of these people who have wider views. Thank you, General.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36270	Oh, thank you. I mean I didn't deserve it, but thank God, I don't have such a nice dictionary like you, I'm going to thank you for that support and you'll always have it we're HDZ, we're here at the time of these terrible earthquake accidents first we were to take on and on our initiative she went out of the opposition right from the Most, from the Sovereignist Initiative to make Sisak a free refund on the burden of funds. HDZ didn't support it at first, he had another variant, but he accepted it, so let's be broad in the area when it comes to general interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36271	Thank you. Let's go to the final debates, the first Green-left bloc's representative, Sandra Bencic, is the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36272	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I was actually going to say very briefly that this is the situation we call but the Brainer, so there's no dilemma that the model of prosecution provided for in the current Penal Code is not adequate to protect victims from sexual harassment, it's so clear. And taking on persecution and making proposals for persecution are not at all models of criminal persecution that should be applicable to those crimes where there are elements of violence, so they simply shouldn't have it in the Penal Code at all. The fact that we all agree here that we all agree that this change should be made. What's the difference between this part of the assembly and HDZ is that HDZ thinks that the victims can wait, that they can wait another six months or 12 months until the task force we don't know what it is, we don't have any data on it, no one here has explained to us who the members of the task force are, when it's established, until the deadline, until they have to submit proposals to amend the Penal Code, so let the phantom Working Group for the Penal Code should make these amendments and make some analyses. The analysis is clear to all of us on this, we don't need anything, and we all agree that we need to make this change right now. My message here, the victims of sexual violence, can't wait, and if we have literally 151 MPs and MPs agreeing on this amendment, there's no reason why we don't vote next Friday, not one of them. But I do have to add, or deny another argument that I didn't mean to speak at all technically or legally, but unfortunately, your colleague said something that wasn't true. He said when the new Penal Code of Victims that they have now submitted or should submit a motion for prosecution for sexual harassment, for example in Ada, that they would then be able to submit under official duty. Now explain to me how? Therefore, there is a principle of applying a milder law which you probably know is valid in criminal law and in relation to a material criminal legal aspect, that is, the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. There is one exception to that prescribed in Article. 86. The penal code also applies to limitation deadlines, and she says that when the old law did not put an end to the limitation period, therefore there was no limitation of prosecution, if the new law provides for a longer limitation period, although it is unfavourable for the perpetrator, a new law will still apply. By then, however, by the time you pass a proposal for a new Penal Code, the limitation period for these offences will expire because it goes according to the proposal and because the proposal now states in the Criminal Procedure Act that the deadline is three months for registration, you understand. So, it won't happen what your colleague said and I'm asking you as a representative to look back at it, excuse me not to propose but to the Government because we can't give false messages, it's simply incorrect. This is a serious legal issue over which the Penal Code will then be applied, but this long-standing dilemma within the scientific legal community was resolved by the 2011 Penal Code when it was finally prescribed that the application of the limitation deadlines was not worth the application of the soft law. But it has to be that the limitation period has not expired or that it has not expired, and here it will come to an old age. So, once again, I appeal to you not to treat this as a question of showing the muscles of the party but as a common question of the responsibility of the legislator, and only we are the legislator, not the working group to the victims of sexual violence. The legislator in this sense is not a government, the legislator is not a working group, we are the legislator here and we are all absolutely in agreement that exactly in this proposed way we need to amend the Penal Code. I call you to reason and to the responsibility of actually doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36273	The next final debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36274	I thank the chairman. I didn't mean to answer the final one, but I'm going to repeat the question that we have here for how long this debate is going on, how long we've been here since three, four hours, and so I haven't received an answer to the question, which is a shame that we should now adopt this law, and all those additions are comprehensive, changes to another 30, four, five, six articles, etc. Let's adopt in six months, here's what I don't get. I don't know a lot of schools behind me and I'm not very slow in some thinking, etc., but it's not in these five hours, three, four hours since we've been here, I haven't been able to figure it out. The only thing that ever occurred to me was here, and I don't know if you remember a series of beggars and sons. Matan and Nusha, if you remember, those singles stories. Whose singer is this? It's just like that now because HDZ is trying to say it's his singler, not that it's SDP's singler. Well, damn it and the singers, for God's sakes. Excuse me. So 151 here, they had any of the 151 here that says this doesn't need to be changed? Come on, that's the one. Let him answer it. Here's a hand up, here's everyone here who you are, is there someone I don't think should change this. If we have to, then what's stopping us from raising our hands together on Friday, changing it, and then six months from now. We add another 68 articles of change and I don't know what. Here's what I don't get. I don't know, maybe I'll have to do some review, but here, three, four hours of this debate, I haven't been able to figure it out, and here I don't know, find someone amongst myself that, here I think no one has been able to figure it out, we're thinking a little bit slower, try to explain to us what the problem is with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36275	Finally on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative and vice president, Sabina Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. First of all, at the end of this debate today, I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues who have been involved in the same debate, and also more than that, to those clubs of MPs who have made it very clear today that they will support not only in the debate but also in the vote in this law, these are the clubs of the Centre and GLAS, the Homeland Movement, the Green Left Block, Mosta, Sovereignist and IDS, I hope that on the day of the vote of these clubs which may not be here today, there will be even more, I hope that HDZ will change itself by then because here, after this whole today's debate, it is clear that there is not a single representative or representative in this Croatian Parliament who considers that the existing law is good, that there is a fair treatment of victims of sexual abuse and there is not a single representative or advocate in the debate today who has expressed his position that there is not a need to remove the dispute in Article 3. 156, which actually creates one obstacle to the prosecution of these crimes. So what we want all of this law to do is to prosecute the act of sexual harassment by official duty instead of prosecuted by a report of three months. and the issue of the dispute will be voted on next Friday. The only difference that is actually filtered between us today is that one part of the assembly wants to do it right now or right now and the other part of the assembly wants to put the stand by or a little bit more, acidify and wait. And I agree with those colleagues and colleagues who say the victims of sexual harassment don't have time to wait. And it kind of sucks to me when in some discussions here, but it really provokes the question of what's the problem? Here's a colleague of mine, Puljak is also asking myself, I have to do some review because I don't understand why if we all feel that we should allow faster sanctioning of these crimes in such a way that they are prosecuted by official duty rather than that the victims put in a situation that if they don't report within 3 months, de facto sits at home, pays because there is no more legal remedy, what is the problem that we don't do now? Because there are no political victories here, my people, we can only relieve our defeats in this way, this is not a topic on the left or on the right or on the centrist, this is not a problem on the left or on the right, this is a problem and a message that we send as a society and as a state to the victims of sexual harassment, and that's the message we're supposed to send today, I guess, along with them, that we understand, their suffering and that we want to help them. Now, today, now. And don't tell them wait till tomorrow, wait five. Uh, wait for the 12th month. And I hope we get to that vote after all. Because this is the right time to go from word to deed. When I say this isn't anyone's victory, no, this is a mitigation of defeat, if every 15 minutes in the Republic of Croatia a woman suffers physical violence, then there's a defeated state. If we have a situation in Croatia that the courts remain in spite of the fact that we have tightened through the Penal Code of Penalty for Violation, the crimes of domestic violence are pronounced by the courts still the least, then the state and society are defeated, if we continue to have the situation that the abusers are still respected people who act publicly, when they turn out and prove to be abusers, then they only resign to party functions, get a little prone to the wind, but they continue to represent and act public authority, then there is both the state and society. If we are still in a situation where the processing of crimes of domestic violence lasts longer than in the judgments of this type of violence, then both the state and society are defeated again. And also, when we have a situation where a woman after a year, two, three, ten encouraged to say I'm sexually harassed, I've been violated by dignity, I've been brought to be annulled as a person, to suffer shame, to endure shame, to no longer have respect and to collect that last, that last grain of power reported it, and according to our law, it's been three months, home daughter, no more salvation for you. Well, that's where the state and society were defeated. Now, we're not going to solve all this problems, but we can take one small step and not enough to say violence should be condemned, we need zero tolerance to violence, we need to support the victims, it's not enough. We heard today, we had a joint session of three committees and we reached a consensus and we concluded that we would encourage victims to report violence, that we would provide mechanisms to report violence. Okay. Nice. Now let's take a step further. Yeah, we'll mean, as HDZ says, encourage them, and then what? Let's take a cold shower. Let's take a cold shower. So let's encourage, now we have a wave of reports of violence that has been launched, not because it has ured or managed by one of us, no politics, women self-organised, women self-encouraged, and we now encourage them as a policy, and you colleagues from HDZ. You mentioned today a few times at a three-session pay phone session which has reached conclusions and one of these conclusions is encouraged, we report, well. And what happens when they do it? You're putting a barrier on them. How? Obsolete. It'll be three months, the law's gone. What did you do to them? You've committed violence against them. This time legislatively, not by deed, but by inaction, and be aware when you vote on this law on Friday. Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36277	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on crafts, first reading, P.Z. No. 38; Proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Most on the basis of Article 38. 85. The Constitution of the What? Okay. On the basis of Art. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. .../incomprehensible/... The Honorable representative asks if we're going to blow, the projected ventilation is in 20 and 45, so after your address on behalf of the promoter. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Here's an esteemed proposalor representative, MP Zvonimir Troscott, will give an additional explanation, so here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36303	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected Croatian peoples. Today we are discussing the abolition of mandatory memberships of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. On behalf of the proposer of this law, I would like to address you with a few words. Since we have recently debated the abolition of mandatory HGK memberships, I believe that I do not particularly need to stress that the very intensity of this law is not the destruction of institutions, in this case the Chamber of craftsmen. However, the aim is to encourage the HOC to make a stronger commitment to satisfy its users or craftsmen. We want to increase the level of productivity and efficiency and give more freedom to our craftsmen, in making decisions concerning their business. Before we enter the very essence of this bill, as well as all the activities involved in the HOK, I would like to touch on some of the fundamental settings on which our economy and crafts activities operate. Although we have generally declared ourselves a democratic state with a free economy, which accepts competition, 30 years after our independence, we operate in a system that economists define as a partner capitalism. Ortac capitalism is a form of capitalism in which business success depends on the close, partnered relations of company owners and politicians in power. In their basic form, these close relations between politicians and companies have the form of giving special benefits to companies and various imaginary institutions, much closer to the way the economy worked in socialist societies, such as Yugoslavia, than to the Western European countries that we allegedly seek to achieve in terms of living standards. And why is this important? It is important because our economy is weak and lagging behind developed EU members precisely because of the parafiscal burdens that Croatia currently has over 400 and generally too many taxes. From these taxes and parafiscal duties are found various partners, godfathers, friends, relatives and in political terms, useful persons, etc. One of these parafiscal burdens is also mandatory to the HOK membership and we want to send this law a clear message as we see Croatia, the kind of Croatia we want and the kind of Croatia we will fight for. We want Croatia, finance or the resources of taxpayers and our citizens to be managed rationally and responsibly for the good of all of them, rather than the privileged elites. We want more freedom for our citizens and entrepreneurs and craftsmen, guests, we want a fair Croatia with a strong economy in which young people will be able to build their families and live with dignity from their work. HOK is an independent, professional business organisation of craftsmen established for the promotion, coordination and representation of common interests of craftsmen. It also states that membership provides special benefits such as benefits for suppliers of goods and services from various economic branches with which the Croatian Chamber of crafts signed cooperation contracts through the HOK joint procurement project. Information on business news, free advice on business, information and advice related to regular and lifelong vocational education for crafts, licensing workshops, carrying out master exams, more favourable performance at fairs, free website publication, seminars and education, representation of interest in the adoption of regulations, registration in the base of crafts, stock exchanges and demand, digital business. All of these benefits and services initiatives are generally positive and we support to a greater extent that there is an organisation that provides those services but the next question is raised. Why do the leading people of the Croatian Chamber of crafts and the ruling parties so run away from the possibility that membership in the chamber will be voluntary? If these services are provided in a quality way, the Chamber will have no problem finding the users of these services and will be able to survive and strengthen from its work without a problem. And the problem is that it is swept into the security of its own income that we will later touch that comes from mandatory membership fees, chambers and leading people chambers do not have the imperative of fighting and effort for the results of the chamber which are obviously reserved in the Republic of Croatia only for the private sector. The solution is simple. Cancel forced membership fees, which would then encourage even greater engagement of the craft chamber itself. argument number one, we are the only former Socialist country that still has mandatory membership in chambers and that we are in the EU. And how did the Croatian economic model today look more like what we had in Yugoslavia than what Western European countries have? It came by the fact that most of the political, social and economic elites are somehow connected to the former state and regime. Of course, those who have lived well in such a regime have no intention and interest in losing the status they currently have, and obviously they are afraid and do not believe in their own abilities when they are so cramped they all struggle for the survival of a system that has proven to destroy every state in which they are in force. The Croatian Chamber of crafts is not an isolated institution within the Republic of Croatia, but an institution which is very well immersed also in the social capitalism or way of functioning as we witness in these areas after Yugoslavia's collapse. That the Republic of Croatia has never passed a transition such as the other countries in which the socialist governance model was in power also shows that of all the countries that had socialism, and now EU members are the only members of the EU still have mandatory memberships in chambers. There are some countries that have mandatory membership in chambers, but other than their chambers achieve significantly better results, they also have a much longer tradition of competition. However, such trends do not need to be followed by numerous examples of former socialist countries that are now booming and enjoying the numerous fruits of economic and administrative reforms that have been subject to. Bulgaria, around 15,000 craft companies are operating in Bulgaria, providing about 70,000 jobs, and Bulgaria's national chamber of qualified crafts is a roof craft chamber that gathers all small crafts and business organisations under its wing. Membership is voluntary and as such a national chamber of qualified crafts of Bulgaria is even a member of the European Association of craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which many Europeans remember under the acronym UEAPME. Did Bulgaria's crafts chamber fail as an institution by the fact that it has introduced voluntary membership and voluntary this fee? On the contrary, in 2005, they participated together with partners in 5 EU countries that contained energy saving measures in different European crafts organisations that included Bulgarian carpenters, German bakeries, Greek bricks, Irish food producers and Spanish meat producers. The programme cost about EUR 1 million for 2 years and half of it was funded by the EU. And besides financing the EU, an interdisciplinary energy network has been created between different crafts and different countries with developed energy saving models. This is an example of a country that has not voluntarily shut down its chamber but has catapulted it to EU spheres in which it has made a major contribution to new models and knowledge of energy savings. And while the ruling party deals with various games such as the case related to the Rijeka cafe or the political spins, how such legal proposals are being broken down by institutions 150 years old Bulgaria has left us with the EU's start-up on most economic parameters the same as Slovenia and Slovakia have done, all of which are countries that we used to be more economically powerful and which we want to achieve today in economic development, and we do not do so because we do not want to implement reforms that have passed by all the former Socialist countries that are now members of the EU except Croatia. Slovakia, two horizontal business organisations for businesses in the craft sector have been identified in Slovakia. Number one. The Slovenian Chamber of Life or the Slovak Chamber of crafts founded in '98, membership is voluntary. And two. The Slovenian Animal Union or the Slovak Federation of the crafts industry, business organisations are voluntary members. The association joined the European Association of craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which many Europeans also remember under the acronym UEAPME. The Slovak Federation of crafts industry, this is interesting, strengthened with an international project between 1996 and 2002 in collaboration with the Trier Chamber of crafts in Germany, enjoying support of neither less than the German federal government. This project focused on financial, material and human support for the creation of new regional trade communities and markets and their strengthening in the field of vocational education and preparation as well as support for improving the quality of crafts. In this case, mandatory membership has not brought them down in order to be argued by the ruling party in Croatia, but has put them in a position to be financed by a country which is a Mayan mandatory chamber member, i.e. Germany. Interestingly, so good Slovak craftsmen worked on market principles that the Slovak Federation of craft industries financed neither less nor more than the feathers of the German mandatory chamber model, or Germany. Perhaps, however, the market model of chamber financing is not the kind of horn the ruling party in Croatia represents. Based on the examples of these two EU countries, it is clear that this legal model does not talk about the destruction of any system or institution, we are talking exclusively about two important aspects here. Under number 1, a regular examination of the chamber system in terms of its efficiency and productivity and 2 examination of the necessity of the obligation to collect the membership fee by the chamber itself. But if the examples of Bulgaria and Slovakia are not close enough, I think that the example of Slovenia or the Slovenian Chamber of crafts cannot be geographically and mentally closer to us than it is. Voluntary membership fees in the Slovenian Chamber of crafts exist since 2012. pay up to 10 to 30 euros, and what is particularly interesting is the fact that the chamber continues to carry out some public activities such as the issue of various licences and licences and the organisation of an education programme. In addition, the chamber focuses mainly on advisory activities and organisation and the implementation of various projects financed by eu funds, similar to in the case of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce. Thus, their chamber already has more than 20 major eu projects that work together with companies and institutions from Norway, Austria, Germany, Bulgaria, Portugal, Hungary, the Czech Republic and many other EU countries and beyond. And the question now arises, if the Slovenian Chamber of crafts can also volunteer memberships as a functional institution that even performs public and private affairs, why not the HOK. No one can convince me here today that the neighbouring country, which is only 25km from our capital, can build a chamber system on the principle of voluntary membership, and that our Croatia cannot do so. At the end of the day, we shared the same country with Slovenia for many years, but today economic Slovenia is catching the EU average, and we have remained in Yugoslavia economically in this sense. As regards the public powers set out in the above examples of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, we see that the fact is that the HOC has transferred certain public powers in terms of the issue of certificates, the implementation of the Court of Honor's education programme or the Peace Centre cannot be justified for the mandatory membership of the Chamber. We can make it quite clear that the fact that the HOK's public authority can't be exclusively a market entity simply doesn't drink water. The first reason is that the HOC can function without some of the powers which best shows the fact that the Court of Honor is at the HOC in the 10th month of 2020. suspended due to the crown's official decision, the main reason is that the Court of Honor was financially unsustainable. It is questionable how many members of the Chamber of Public Authorities themselves are asking for this when it is known that in the case of more serious misunderstandings or problems among craftsmen there is trade law and commercial courts. The government's argument does not stand so much that it would mean that all should be members of, for example, police, judicial or teaching chambers because courts, police, and schools have public authority. Other minor problems can be solved by craftsmen and the market itself separates the good from the bad partners. In that context, this argument sounds like a simple cliché and an excuse. It is also important to note that the total amount of membership fees is far greater than the potential costs that such honorable courts can generate on an annual basis, and not only that, but any new occurrence before the Court of Honor or the Peace Centro means an additional cost in terms of certain fees that the craft must pay independently on membership. What remains as the only valid fact in all these barren arguments of the ruling is that the ruling colors reveal the door to the competition because in the perspective it means the weakening of their power and influence. When we talk about the business of the chamber, it is enough to point out several indicators, revenues from the sale of services in 2019. They were only 1.5% of the total revenues of the chamber, i.e. 321,000 kuna, which is a 10% drop compared to 2018. this trend has been visible for the last few years. The membership fee was 65% of the income according to the audit report and 14.6 million kuna, respectively, which is almost 10% growth. The next conclusion is being reached, the chamber is increasingly being financed from membership revenue, and all the less than selling services and products, and we want to reverse that trend. Why shouldn't the chamber be on the market and offer for example. its advice on business, on education on various interests in the field of craft activities or intermediation when it comes to fair performances and then on market charges. I believe that there is no rational answer to the question raised because if there are other organisations on the market that carry out these activities, we see no reason why they cannot be carried out by the HOC either. And finally, the HOC reflects the situation in society and the proven poor economic model, although the services it offers are generally good. They are not equally available to all, these Croatian craftsmen are not satisfied with them. Taking into account the fact that we are the only country that has a socialist system and which still has mandatory membership fees in chambers, and that the following question is raised by economic indicators at the very bottom of the EU. Why don't we follow the example of other countries in the environment? We firmly believe that the implementation of the craft chamber on the market will raise the productivity and efficiency of the chamber, and the services provided by the chamber will be better quality. If chambers can do business anywhere in a profitable way by providing services that attract users and customers why aren't our chambers capable, maybe we just haven't given them a chance? Traditional craftsmanship as an immaterial cultural heritage is a very important economic factor in Croatia since their history dates back to the Roman era where, through medieval brotherhoods protected by saints, we reach an important 1447. for the history of craftsmen when the City Administration of Gradec and today's Zagreb gave the tailors first privileges. Later in 1852. Chambers of Commerce in Zagreb, Rijeka and Osijek are established. In this sense, the effective side should also be understood, given that the numerous family trees of our Croatian people find their ancestors in crafts and crafts that family members would then continue to inherit. Today, however, we have a situation where many caterers complain about penalties by the state, and then those incentives that the state has given them have to pay back to the state. So far, more than 11,000 people in the catering sector have lost their jobs. People change their occupation because they can't take it without work, and many won't have enough resources to prepare the season, which practically means their closure and their worse tourist offer. With these measures, the government of the Republic of Croatia is turning our Croatia into a "wake for van" tourist destination. In this regard, craftsmen and entrepreneurs do not see either the state or the chamber as their allies and experience the burdens of chambers as a parafiscal imposition which, according to the polls of most entrepreneurs, craftsmen and caterers, should be voluntary. And our duty as their parliamentary representatives is to be their voice and to make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36304	We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36305	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Troscott, you have initiated the suspension of mandatory membership fees for HGK. The latest survey says 90% of those who pay mandatory HGK membership fees are not nearly satisfied with the service and all that they get from HGK. Yesterday, I think the results of the research were thrown out. Now you're initiating the suspension of mandatory membership fees for HOC. Do you have any information on the satisfaction of the services that all those who pay mandatory membership fees get back from the crafts chamber? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36306	Dear Representative Kujundzic, thank you for asking. Therefore, it is necessary to separate the craft chamber from the Chamber of Commerce for reasons that according to many indicators the craft chamber is better than the economics. For example, they have an annual work plan, have a financial plan unlike the Chamber of Commerce, have an annual financial report, have available documents dating back to 5 years, have an open form of business, audit reports from which I read some of the data and sponsorship and donations. However, here I do not see a survey of the craftsmen themselves who say they agree with the mandatory membership fee and if the actual survey would show that all craftsmen in Croatia are, therefore, agreeing on the fact that this fee should be mandatory for no one to question that it should then be so. And on the other hand, management of the crafts chamber does good things and I don't see any reason not to test that ability by market principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36307	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36308	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I'm actually going to part with the question of my colleagues before me. You listed a series of arguments that explain why you think you should cancel mandatory membership. One of the little, few arguments of the government is that you haven't determined the will of the members of the HOK, so I'm curious as to why you actually went to these changes as a proposer, so have you done any kind of survey specifically, have you spoken to these people and have you here to present their will specifically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36309	Dear colleagues Maric, therefore, as far as the bill itself is concerned, he was already in his 10th month last year so that I am now eliminating potential attacks that this craft chamber is now going into this cycle now that this whole crisis is, which is connected to the hosts themselves. So, we've been doing our internal survey where we've talked to a number of caterers, with a number of cooks at the end and with fishermen, here's our representative Bulj is connected to fishermen, let's say the carriers who weren't satisfied during the crisis itself, especially their treatment on leasing, so the carriers are there. At the end of the day and our craftsmen, we talked here that today, we talked about them, couldn't sell their products during the crisis on, on the posters, but we all had to go to malls. So in our analysis of what we've been doing and talking to people on the ground, so there's a large number of craftsmen and caterers. who are not satisfied with the service. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36310	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36311	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Troscott, since yesterday, you have been surprised by the fact that even those MPs who gave their signatures that your proposal is on the agenda today in HS have actually voted abstentionly on the Assembly Committee on the Economy to abolish mandatory membership. You see, I'm not surprised that dear colleagues realized that HOK has a completely different role than HGK, has a lot more public authority, especially in terms of craftsmanship and craftsmanship, so none of the elected members, presidents, board members, boards of directors, congregations are permanent and employees, so they are themselves members of the craftsmen who manage the HOK for the benefit of all craftsmen. And most of them work without a fee to work. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36312	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36313	Thank you very much for this question. So I'll start at the very end of what you've set up. Public powers are not an argument that it does not go into the market principle of membership and we have seen this in many examples of European countries. For example, one Slovenia that also has similar powers as our HOC, but that did not prevent them from introducing a market principle where they would then, in accordance with the services they charge to their members, between EUR 10 and EUR 30 per voluntary base. So that's about your argument of public authority. Regarding the Chamber of Commerce itself, I agree, therefore, they have certain things or processes much better expressed than that in the Chamber of Commerce, and I said so on the Committee on Economy, so to the President of the Chamber of Commerce. However, on the other hand, the removal of parafiscal burdens is one of my party's official economic policies, so we think that parafiscal burdens that are over 400, and the craft chamber is one of them should not be there on a forced basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36314	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36315	Dear colleague Troscott, dear Vice President. So here's a colleague I really appreciate you, you guys are really always getting ready to argue, but you're promoting yourself in this assembly as the main destroyer of institutions. So instead of taking the time, which you've taken a lot of time to do in this preparation and these speeches, and all of which may be to take advantage of that time, so what additional article you write. Your proposal for a bill is 3 articles "wipes", "wipes" and "applys in 8 days". There is nothing like 90,000 exams, 20,000 is master exams, there is nothing to ensure the workforce and education, there is nothing about vocational education for which we have EUR 80 million from European funds where the craft chamber is the main partner, there is nothing about any system and you have done a very nice analysis of it, but only what is written in the law is counted, and your law is "expunged", "expected" and "apply in 8 days". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36316	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36317	Well, dear colleague Pavić, thank you for your kind words of praise for the opening part, and I appreciate it, and I appreciate it when you are at the debates. As far as MOST's proposal is concerned, there is an old Chinese proverb that I said yesterday, which is that in simplicity there is genius, and therefore we have made our proposal, so we have given our proposal and what is behind our proposal is the calibration that we have done in accordance with the countries that have been through such transition, so that there is no destruction of the institutions themselves, but that even certain services are being charged more than this, according to this mandatory membership, because if you charge certain things in the market I assure you that the revenues would not be, therefore, 15 million but would have made 25 to 30 million kuna if the manager's ability was there, and I see no reason not to place it on the market, and I have no doubt that a person of such caliber would raise income and market principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36318	The next replica is the distinguished representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36319	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Troscott, some of the things I'm going to ask and hear, but now we see from another aspect. As regards the structure of the craft chamber, it is important that the work of the bodies at all levels is managed by the members themselves, so none of the members of the management bodies chosen by craftsmen are employees of the craft chamber but are all decisions that result from their own experience and practical work in the profession. Therefore, it turns out that the members of the craftsmen are themselves and control in business because they choose their own bodies, of course with respect to the applicable legal provisions and can participate in all decisions and initiatives. So I haven't noticed in the public any more significant activities of members of the craftsman's chamber in terms of abolishing mandatory membership, consulting, surveying and the like, so I'm interested in a concrete basis for adopting this bill, and related to the views of the members, so only the members of the chambers, or that was a bit of a rash move. for obtaining membership's approval without prior communication with the same. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36320	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36321	Your question is quite legitimate, so what we can ask, for example, in the region of the Primorje-Gorski County with, say, initiatives that were 5 to 12 when our hosts went out on, into the streets and simply didn't feel that our government heard them, or that they were heard by the craftsman's chamber. For example, the fishermen themselves when they couldn't sell their products on the market during the crown, and on the other hand we could go to chains like spar and buy frozen fish from who knows which countries, and we couldn't eat the quality fish that comes from our parts. So at the end of the day the same question arises, the good craftsman has, however, done a lot of work on the restaurant and craftsmen in terms of this bill, but on the other hand, the craftsmen complain that they unfortunately do not receive these fees on a regular basis and simply feel themselves in this whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36322	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36323	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed colleague Troscott, craftsmen and craftsmen are an unforgiving part of the entire economy, perhaps most tough because he has resisted all challenges, difficulties and crises over the past decade. The craftsmanship has a future and valuable hands that will certainly continue to develop it. A national roof institution such as the HOC gathers craftsmen of all professions, harmonizes their sometimes conflicting interests. Such arrangements provide for independence by the state, which would mean the absence of such a unique system for craftsmen, without having previously carried out a previous analysis that of course we did not determine the will of members of the Chamber of Commerce. I don't think we need one good and solid system to crash ad hoc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36324	Well, Your Honor, I thank you for asking. So our proposal does not go in the direction of destroying the institution of the Chamber of crafts, but rather upgrades because when you act marketly or when you go into battle for each kuna, then you increase additional productivity and efficiency. In this sense, the Chamber of Commerce would be on the market, for example, looking at the revenues of one Slovenia, Slovakia, Bulgaria, which today play a very important role in the EU, they are doing interdisciplinary inter-state projects involving a number of EU countries and thus creating certain models in which energy is then saved and such projects are sold or given to other EU members. In that sense, I see no reason why such an institution would disappear and all the analyses you mentioned in the EU show in fact that the market approach Members' memberships are highly efficient and productive. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36325	Dear representative Grozdana Perić next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36326	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Troscott, we know that the Chamber of crafts was created by the Czechs and their associations, or sections, and that they organized themselves precisely to protect themselves and to impose themselves as one institution that can and that carries a large part of the economy in Croatia and so on in the world. What is important is that members of that chamber are craftsmen who are still craftsmen, so they do not have the status of an official but are still craftsmen and do these jobs only with certain fees. So it is an institution that is very well-functioning and gives very important and good proposals for changing the law and for the benefit of its members.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36327	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36328	Thank you, Your Honor. It may work well, but it can be much better and it has shown all those countries that have gone through the transition where these membership fees have become larger because, for example, with the management capabilities of Mr. Ranogajec, who is really a person like we had the opportunity to see on the Committee on Economy which is extremely energetic given in this job, I think that with his team and the management team would certainly increase revenues to the Chamber of Commerce itself because when a craftsman is even more satisfied with the service which the Chamber of crafts as a roof institution is historically important for the Croatian people then, in that sense, not only is he willing to pay more for a service which then he should not be 76 kuna but for certain things, for certain licenses he paid even more than in that sense and the craftsman is willing to pay market management capabilities such as Mr. Ranogajk and his members of the team. And in that sense, I don't see it as an institution collapse, but even one specific upgrade. by example of Slovenia. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36329	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36330	Dear colleague Troscott. Here's a little bit of clarification here, my colleagues said that the HOK officials are not in a working relationship and do not receive any fees or receive monthly rewards, travel expenses, journals and so on, for example. the President of the craft chamber of the Primorje-Gorski County over the past five years spent more than 875,000 kuna. In 2019, the craft chamber had 36 employees with average salary of 12,500 kuna, total income of 22 million kuna, and compulsory membership fees cover 75% of income. So do you think that it's justifiable that the fear of all those who operate in the Chamber of crafts that by abolishing membership, they're actually going to lose their incomes and lose their monthly rewards and all these benefits they've made so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36331	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36332	Thank you, dear MPs, for asking. I would also like to demystify and be fair to this amount of 875,000 kuna, it is a gross amount of about 120,000 at year level, and in these amounts are the entry and taxes and contributions and transport costs and overnight expenses, for example, of this gentleman in Zagreb, where he was still travelling through Croatia and when all this is divided, they are real for now. And regarding the fear that you mentioned, I think it is unjustified for the reason why introducing optional membership fees to the HOK would go on the market principle, so it would increase revenues, and only an increase in income would be an additional reason, or argument, that could be presented to craftsmen to increase the salaries of all employees and of the representative bodies themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36333	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36334	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Troscott, you are in favour of voluntary membership in the chamber, and indeed there are jobs and tasks of the HOC which can be particularly charged. Now the question for which it was appreciated and whether it would be much more expensive for a craftsman than it is now an annual membership fee. There are jobs that could only be provided to those members of the chamber, but there are jobs done by the HOK to all its craftsmen, such as the harmonisation of their interests and mutual interests, often conflicting interests, recognition and appearance in front of different institutions, affecting regulations on economic measures. So we know that the catering centre is responsible for reducing VAT in the catering sector, so I will have fishermen for blue diesel, different local associations and pipes fighting for less lease payments on public areas, municipal fees, concessions, etc. And the results right now are not just about those members, they're about everything. How would you regulate that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36335	Dear MPs thank you for asking, so the first part when you started to state you are actually instructions of public authority or certain segments of public authority and on the issue of Slovenia that was with us in the country until '91. It therefore operates in a way that has public authority and operates on a market principle. So these aren't mutually exclusive components. So if someone continues to practice all the public powers they have, which has a crafts chamber, then I don't see the difference which makes it marketable, market-based. Regarding the Czechs that they were, they were, they were certain Czechs they were especially during the crisis extremely active especially for the fishermen you listed. However, in the case of a company of fishermen, I think it has failed the state first for reasons that it was not possible to allow the fresh fish of our Adriatic, and you yourself come from Dalmatia not to sell to the markets, and to buy and import fish from foreign countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36336	Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36337	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Sanader, dear colleague Troscott, Mr Secretary of State, I am interested in giving me one more colleague Troscott to explain to the Croatian public. So there's millions, more specifically over 180 million kuna, or you're going to tell me in lip means that data. Let the millions who lie there every year go, why they spend. Does the Croatian public know why 200 million kuna is being spent, where the money goes, what with that money, what exactly are these people doing? If I have good information, you correct me Great Britain, Slovenia, Scandinavian countries do not have mandatory membership but we hear some comparing us with Germany. Here I am first when Croatia has GDP as Germany, taxes as Germany, a regulated system as Germany, and I would almost say the salary promised to us by the former president of the Republic of Kolinda of EUR 8,000, so I am the first to pay then Of any kind [[Intruder: Time.]] This parafiscal madness. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36338	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36339	Dear Representative Miletic, a respected colleague, so as far as income itself is concerned, they may have been at that level over a decade, because at the annual level they are therefore falling between 13 and 15 million kuna, we are talking about membership revenues. However, we can continue to structure these revenues, so from the master's exams, so before the revenues are at an annual level of around 3.5 million kuna. What I would like to further touch in the analysis that you asked me is that before the revenue from the budget amounts to 2.3 million kuna and that is for certain European projects or projects of the EU. However, there is actually a double payment of the craftsman himself. On the one hand, he pays it through membership fee of 76 kuna, and on the other hand through the budget, which is charged from certain charges to those persons, so certain projects are refinanced. So in that income, we have double payments from the craftsmen themselves and from the rent incomes at the annual level. Last year it was 1.2 million kuna. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36340	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36341	Dear Representative Troscott, you said in your debate, and you have mentioned it several times now that it is actually the goal of reducing parafiscal intrusion on one side. On the other hand, you said that if the chamber moved to the market principle of business there is a high probability that all these services would be more expensive for craftsmen. That the revenues of the chamber will be higher. Now, please explain to me how you've now figured it out or how you designed it to relieve our craftsmen if after the cancellation of the craftsman's membership, they're going to pay more and have higher costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36342	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36343	Thank you. That's a good question. So this is how we remove the parafiscal burdens, or that they are being forced to pay. So we can't ban our craftsmen and entrepreneurs that if they want to pay a certain charge to improve their services, so they pay for it, right? What the market principle, as such, then assumes that this paid service will receive, or that paid money, a much larger service. So, for the act, I get counterproductive. And if such counterproduction by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce leads to additional value even with the craftsman seeking the service, then it is no longer an imposition but an investment by craftsmen or entrepreneurs. So, on our part, that, you know, you know, you have to do this kind of thing, because the craftsmen themselves don't even know in the vast majority what they're paying for. However, on the other hand, if the craft chamber market accesss this, it offers its service as well as some company then which Just, I'm a pay craftsman. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36344	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36345	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected colleague, if I understand correctly, is the aim of your legislative proposal to abolish the chamber's contribution and abolish mandatory membership. You were speaking both terms, so I'm not sure anymore. In view of your proposal, therefore, Article 77. The law on crafts continues which you do not propose to delete talks and prescribe mandatory membership, so it remains. However, you have a problem with Article 81, which you have proposed, therefore, paragraph 2 of indent 7 to delete which speaks of a mandatory contribution paid by all members, but the same article gives you the authority of the Assembly to make other decisions. So by erasing that indent, you do not prevent the HOK Assembly from making a decision on paying the mandatory contribution. In other words, Article 81 does not prescribe the tax provisions of the assembly and this proposal which you, as counterpart Pavić said with two wipes and once vacatio legis, do not solve anything absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36346	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36347	So such a very simple thing, we would have mandatory membership so as not to be forced but to be voluntary, and only membership as such depends on the craftsman himself whether he wants to be inside the craftsman himself or not. So that's it. So we would just force the membership fee to be voluntary, so it's not erasing, it's just that membership is no longer mandatory but voluntary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36348	Thank you. You're done with your opening work. The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, is gone, and then we will take a break for 10 minutes. We'll continue at 21 and 10 until the space is vented. [[It's 9:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.10 HOURS]] Here we go, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36350	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law amending the HDZ Club's Trade Act will not support it. We at the HDZ Club believe that for any change relating to the business of craftsmen, whether it be their rights or obligations, an analysis should be carried out and consulted with these craftsmen, as well as for these amendments to the Law on crafts. In the Republic of Croatia, it is currently active and now in January of this year more than 93,000 craftsmen, and I think it is necessary that we have one institution that represents the interests of all these craftsmen and that governs it. All HOK officials, as we have already been able and through replicas, must have an active craft and none of the elected presidents and members of the Assembly, and supervisory and management boards are employees of the system. I think it's very important to know that there's a perception of how much that means and what it's spending exactly on HOK. It is an independent, professional, business organisation of craftsmen established to promote, coordinate and represent common interests of craftsmanship. It is not a fundamental objective to promote the private or narrow interests of its members and, therefore, they are not usually even gathered voluntarily. It represents all craftsmen and all activities, harmonizes their interests both in front of government representatives and resolute institutions. The advantage of the chamber system is to gather craftsmen of all professions and their sometimes opposed interests should be harmonised. The professional services of the chamber under equal conditions shall be accessible to all members. Decisions shall be made with the assistance of experts with long-term experience and a wide range of knowledge from various areas of business. In HOC, we have only 38 employees with a net salary of just over 8,000 kuna. If we know that we have over 63% of employees of high professional equipment or a master I think we are really talking about people who work for very small incomes, and they are of great importance to the development of craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia. It is in this way that regulations and economic measures are affected by the way a craftsman could never have a self-influence, thus creating favourable business conditions, and also preventing possible damage to craftsmen. The craftsmen are most often and crafts is the most common family business. We'll see by the number of employees that we have even a little less employees than we have craftsmen, which means that on average craftsmen work independently, only they mean they're employed within their crafts, or they have potentially partners, and rare crafts have a slightly larger number of employees, again they're numbers 3, 4, 5, 6, maximum to 7, 8 and 10. It is precisely these small jobs that are very difficult to oppose large economic and monopoly systems, and it is therefore very important that they are gathered in this chamber. The HOC shall provide day to day-to-day expert advice and shall have individual access to each request, provide information on rights and obligations, funding opportunities, business coordination, competitiveness empowerment, contractual relations related to the labour law of concessions, support, excise duty, minimum technical conditions, environmental protection, credit standards, standards, etc. Since we know that these little craftsmen, as I said, cannot have in their composition and are not financially strong that they can also pay their legal fees, we would also say staff advisers, both tax and financial advisors and have great support right in the HOC. It also has special importance in preserving professional professions, conducting assistant and master exams, and secure practice for all practitioners is provided. It is therefore necessary for this chamber system to be financed on the principle of solidarity. Anyone who needs help can get it on equal terms. The HOC shall exercise public legal oversight over members of the profession and shall therefore primarily promote public interest. The latest initiative also resulted in the adoption of a new Law on craftsmanship and the reform of the system was then carried out precisely with the aim of increasing the quality of services provided to craftsmen and in a way that, in a structural sense, the system was fully linked to the control and provision of the same levels of services and then, financially, a single rate of chamber contribution in the flat-rate amount which must not exceed 2% of the personal income deduction in accordance with the Income Tax Act. Now that amount is 912 kuna a year. For the contribution paid by craftsmen to the HOK, it also provides them with permanent support in business and takes care of development, but also provides unlimited free assistance from advisory services, free education, performing at domestic and foreign fairs. Here's only through this covid crisis we have information that the HOK has responded to over 38,000 e-mails to its craftsmen. There were different queries, especially regarding economic measures. The beginners of this year have been freed from chamber contributions for the first two years, also due to the crisis caused by the coronary virus and the difficult business of craftsmen at the end of March 2020. The craftsmen were charged with a chamber contribution chamber for the second quarter. The earthquake-stricken craftsmen were also assigned to the first quarter. The craft via the HOK also has certain benefits, as the chamber has concluded a Cooperation Agreement which provides discounts for partners and related to the choice of electricity, fuel, office material, medical services, press, information services, advertising, etc. Through the HOCs, all professions represent their specific interests and influence the adoption of a legislative framework important for business. As I said, the contribution of the fishermen as a key partner of the Ministry of Agriculture was based on a policy for all fisheries sector policies, the host company is responsible for reducing the VAT to 13% for preparing and serving food and confectionery services, the transporter's choice was to return part of the excise duty paid out of the fuel and to abolish the obligation to use highways for domestic carriers, etc. Inside the HOC, there are 9 units and 13 sections. HOK is one of the most transparent chambers in the Republic of Croatia in the last five years and it has systematically cared about vocational education for more than 25 years. Therefore, in conclusion, the HDZ Club which supports it, we support the further disbursement of our 93,000 Croatian craftsmen, but at the same time providing quality services and strengthening their market position. If we know that with these craftsmen we have this employee and more than 91,000 workers who make up 13% of the employees in the Republic of Croatia, we cannot agree with these changes because we believe that it cannot facilitate the business of craftsmen as stated by the promoter but that a number of important functions can be lost that cannot be left to the market as it is. Professional education, Court of Honor, which avoids long-term court proceedings and the costs of lawyers, monitoring of legislation, giving legislative initiatives etc. Therefore, this proposal for a law cannot support the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36351	On behalf of the promoter, next debate, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36352	My colleagues and colleagues. Here behind the HDZ club I can only say that this HOC would be on voluntary membership, which means it's not limiting craftsmen to be members of craft chambers and I think it's the most honest thing. Here you have been resisting the HGK that creates its own empire, destroying our entrepreneurs and businessmen in fact we have no results regarding the HGK. You've been resisting enormously, and I'm even most surprised by what's not here, Mr. Hrebak, your coalition partner as the bearer of that liberal story, even a little weird for me to say it, but for Hrebak it would be minimally what I should support. But I don't know where that guy got lost, I don't know what I'm looking at, and I thought he'd be one of the advocates of taking off 500 duties, one of the 500 duties to entrepreneurs outside the IRS, 500, I think you should count it, you won't know. Here's to asking how much we now have outside of tax duties, it would probably be hard for anyone to guess the number of people who daily recover that burden and for craftsmen in this case, as well as for the businessmen. These are people who create additional value, if we do not release these people, mainly in these two thirds of Croatia that are empty if we do not relieve them of all these duties, if we do not charge them to a minimum, then there are no jobs, there is no survival of people in these areas, and that is a fact. If the triba for five years... Dalmatinska Zagora, Slavonia, Lici, Gorski kotara and it is a project, not a project called Slavonia, which shuts down all the workplaces. Project Slavonia, don't accidentally give me that project in the Dalmatian Zagora. You opened the project of Slavonia and shut down all the sugars. Destroyed what was. I was counting on you to project Slavonia in incentives, new measures, new essentially it was one PR fog as well as everything that was going on. In my county triba help craftsmen, triba help in high school education that we have craftsmen new to create through professional training in high schools. We try to get back the trades, if we have cattle, then we don't have a butcher's tribune, we don't need someone who connects a spaceship, but we're missing a spaceship, we don't know, of course we're trying to adapt it to our crafts, our craftsmen, our craftsmen, but you're not doing it, you're throwing burdens, you're putting burdens, sables on people who create additional values. They can't pull these people, they can't just pull, they can volunteer to join a certain group, the association, and that's what they need to represent. However, any discharge does not suit you, I don't know why, which is why, but I don't wonder if someone in that temple chain must be there because it was created, but I don't know why the liberals are silent, which is why they are silent and supporting this policy. They will say behind the elections they will bring it when the elections, fathers, fathers, when they produce grapes on the willow, they will raise their voice. I'm lucky I was among 12 MPs when we didn't agree after 3 months we went to elections and there's no problem being in power any, but the triba being principled or opposition, it's honorable to both, so you need to be principled and expect from the principle of those who represent certain programs and when they're in power and okay, it doesn't have to be someone in power, but someone is in opposition. But this is where the liberals failed. Where are the reformists, I don't see them, where are the minorities and they don't see them, in these areas living hard people of Serbian nationality, I don't see the Shimpraga Mrs., I don't see the Podovec Milorad, the only thing I see here is Mila Horvat, sent you as a state secretary who's appointed in front of a national minority, here you are standing and listening to what you're going to do, you can count the jacks, that's what you can do, not say the position of the government. You can't even say the government's position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36353	The first replica of the distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36354	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, the esteemed vice president of the assembly, so perhaps your colleagues didn't come to eat a little bit and read the code like Mr. Hubbin said, you don't take off the membership fee at all. You only transfer this option to the congregation or beyond when you delete but not leave it to the HOK Assembly to bring mandatory membership fees. So write better, three articles, “wipes, ” “wipes, ” “8 days. ” We haven't heard anything about the system of craftsmanship, about the education system, about 80-90,000 exams, 23,000 master exams, about millions of EU projects, nothing, just coming to the assembly, tearing down institutions, at night we're discussing it, I'm all waiting for the next night, which is the next institution, but here's the institution by institution we're going to defend the system that needs to survive, whether it can be better, we need to discuss it, but in your speeches we don't see any suggestions on how to make the system better [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36355	You're telling me that I'm destroying an institution, in Croatia I'm tearing down institutions. That's what you say to your leader Plenkovic, I don't tear down institutions, I'm one of the drops in the sea that fights for these institutions, and I'll never break them down, but these bloodsuckers and leeches that destroy the Croatian economy, Croatian craftsmen, I'll be against it, I'll be against it, I'll be against it, because your promises as a minister have been made down of 150 million kuna to help financial support, you've so exposed the Sinj, the Cetin End, the property end before the elections, it's so much of a sleaze and lies that you can't even describe it, here's no swearing came, you haven't given one. You deceive this people and you're still from where you came from and you tell me to tear down institutions, that I'm destroying institutions. Report me to court, tomorrow I have a trial with Mesica, and I can't wait with you. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36356	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36357	Thank you very much. Art. 238, my colleague Bulj insulted me, and I won't sue you at all, my colleague Bulj, the citizens will judge, and 31% of the polls go to HDZ. In Split-Dalmatia County, we said yesterday, 5.5 billion kuna, will be a special programme for the Dalmatian Zagora, funds will be invested, funds will be built, and Mr Kujundzic will be a kindergarten. So I don't see the need for this kind of insult, but I do. If you're nervous about the election coming, we've got 31%, we'll see after the election. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36358	This was a replica and you have a warning. Replicated representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36359	Thank you, Chairman. And my Marco, all right. Comrade Bulj, the ruling argument was when we discussed the HGK's mandatory membership fees was the age of the institution, now that we're talking about the HOK several times, the master exams that are being paid anyway are being repeated. There was no master's exams in HGK unless we could talk about fasadere works of 21, 21 million kuna. What do you think is the real reason that the ruling majority will not support the abolition of the HOK's mandatory membership fees?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36360	Well, I think here would be the best answer given by our representative Pavic, he'd be the most relevant one here if he let go of billions of what that man's regulations are down by your imotic landscape and Sinja I don't see any kunas. Even you were on the government, so you promised "Dalmatia Wine", you remember Minister Pavic then that you would pay them their backs they didn't get, people protested, then you lied the same thing. So you're the government where Pavic was now our parliamentary representative 2 billion kunas have promised to give our end. Neither swear nor swear, but only suck. When I look at your end, at your end, here we just mention Cetina that produces 40% of the hydropower of the Republic of Croatia, so relieve those people of the economy, relieve those people of craftsmen, relieve them a little bit. So you can't put that kind of samar in Croatia free country, so people get away, close their turns they can't pay for it anymore, they can't pay for themselves or their workers. So why are you doing this, what's that interest? We'll run out of people and just the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36361	Thank you, Mr. Bull. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36362	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. In 238, I wouldn't be too fellow Bulj hard on Mark, Marko was while the minister was helping within what was allowed him, but he forgets the fact that this area was devastated by the bad policies that you here didn't personally belong to as a man and as an individual. And here I am withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure and thank you for your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36363	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a good thing you pulled it off, but you're getting a warning because you took the time. Next debate on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36364	Dear Representative Government. My fellow MPs, my fellow MPs. From the presentation of our colleague Troscott and afterwards from the replicas that we have heard, we can conclude that this bill is quite simplified and that, in fact, it does not remove the mandatory membership fee, but that it only shifts it to another body that will decide on it. So that goal you might be trying to achieve is actually not being achieved by this law. And in addition, what we have heard in the debates and replicas is that the chamber has a lot of tasks, a lot of jobs it does for both craftsmen and craftsmen, and we believe that, before the suspension of that mandatory membership, if abolished, changes can be made and reorganised and in the public administration in one part of the ministry and without that, mandatory membership fees should not be abolished. In order to further debate, more detailed analysis and potential quality solutions, the SDP club will support this proposal, but we hope that in the second reading we will have additional suggestions and suggestions that we will be able to discuss more quality and see what happens if this really goes away. I tried to draw Mr. Troscott's attention here through the replica that a market-oriented chamber can actually cause craftsmen and higher costs, which in no way is our goal. Now the craftsman's chamber is doing a lot of work, and if the craftsman wants some additional services, he can get some extra services now in a way that hires advisors with his money, to hire some agencies. Therefore, what the chamber is giving them so far is sufficient for craftsmen, and those who feel that they are not satisfied with these services can seek elsewhere, if they have some greater appetites, demands, needs. However, all those who do not have such needs get it all from the chamber. I've been with the Association of craftsmen and the chamber connected since 1987. There may be some MPs who may not have been born yet, but I can say that this chamber is quite different from the HGK and that we must not interfere in any way. And that initiative to abolish mandatory membership in HGK was both well worked out and a good proposal, the government accepted it as well, and will work out this proposal in one way that corresponds to both the Government and the HGK because if we abolished the membership fees and that chamber there would be a suspension of the chamber, there would be no income. So we need to find income that the craftsmen's chamber that are interested in co-operation with the chamber can continue to communicate and that they can continue to cooperate with them. I'd just like to point out that we've already had a few replicas related to chamber employees. It may have been a bit of an awkward statement by Mrs. Peric, who said that the people in the chamber are members of the chamber, that's for sure, but I wanted to say that the members of the chamber's body are actually members of the chamber, sorry that they are craftsmen, but they are also active craftsmen. So they are active craftsmen and must have an active craft, they must work to be in the bodies of that chamber, regardless of whether or not it's a county-level craftsman's association, at the level of the municipality and the city means they must be active and participate in the work of that chamber. So they actually delegate their people 51 people to HOK and that 51 man actually makes the Chamber Assembly, and every president of the county organization is actually a member of the chamber management and this shows us that these craftsmen themselves are self-managing the chamber. I agree with you, there may be a number of people, a number of craftsmen who may not need all the services of the chamber, but don't forget that this chamber gives a large number of services to craftsmen to help them with taxes, to be tax counselors, to help them in their business, to help them organize through the pipes, so there's a lot of things where the chamber helps them. If we are looking at the chamber organisation, if we are looking at how the president is elected, and actually, after that these 51 members of the assembly actually choose the president with that the president can't be anyone but you have to meet certain conditions, so he has to be a member of the chamber again, he has to work for a minimum of 10 years, he has to be active in the authorities of the chamber system for a minimum of 5 years, he has to have a level playing field for all tax and contribution, he has to have proof that no criminal proceedings are being conducted, and that he has received the confirmation of the court of honor that no measures have been imposed. What I would like to point out specifically to you is that craftsmen are not unionally organised and, in addition to their individual activities, only a crafts chamber is fighting for their rights, and in addition, it is easier for craftsmen to return to the chamber which is then giving systematiced proposals and to discuss their proposals and to forward them to the competent authorities. Among other things, thanks to the chambers in the past few years, it has been voted that women craftsmen have the same right as workers on maternity compensation that was not previously conditioned, that the craftsman exercise the same rights to compensation for the sick as the worker who had not previously had. And what may be most important, if the rotation is braked for economic reasons, the craftsman is entitled to the compensation of the HZZ on which he had not previously had. That's very important. You need to know, for those of you who don't know, a craftsman guarantees all of his assets for the business of that craft, and he's always burdened with it, he has all the pressure on his head, and it's not a small thing because if something happens to an extraordinary business, if he can't charge his claim, he can easily get out of his house, out of his garage, out of his workshop, and that he can't do any more. Someone here mentioned that there were no master exams, there were, there were master exams of about 22,000. Let's not forget that in addition to these exams there were some 90,000 assistant exams, that some 17,000 licenses were issued to conduct teaching in crafts and companies workshops, and in this way they actually provided about 59-60 thousand free scientific places. The craft chamber is also extremely concerned about our future generations, so it takes care of young people through the process of licensing crafts and other workshops for the admission of scientists to apprenticeship and it is one of the most important segments of the operation of the HOK. I would only conclude that based on what I have been saying so far, and I will say more, see that the organisation of organisation, the provision of services and the importance of the chamber for the entire economy and the business of craftsmen is extremely important, that it has an unmistakable value and that further incentive should be considered and this proposal in any case requires and deserves further discussion with additional proposals, and this debate will be held for sure in the second reading. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36365	Thank you. Next Thank you. It's okay. [[- What's wrong?]] Next debate on behalf of Proposer Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36366	Thank you very much. Well, it's not too late. It's only gonna be 10 hours, so we don't have to be nervous. I expect that colleagues who are not here will come and be involved in this important debate. Of course, the triba takes that yoke off our craftsmen's back and of course I'd prefer that this was proposed by the ruling option or by the government, liberals, for example. If Hrebak had suggested it would have gone away. But I'd rather the government didn't accept this then if she had given measures for craftsmen, say moratorium on loans, interest that she gave as Slovenia did. So it's not far, so we have these possibilities to help craftsmen, and that mandatory membership fees don't have to be one of the 500 extra-taxed burdens on these people. Here, in my neighborhood, I'd like to run an analysis, if the government had done what was necessary. We've lost all the traditional crafts, let's just say before it's been done by people, we have, say, the most prized cargo or donkey we appreciate most in the Dalmatian Zagora, the tallest animal in the area, so they were people who had their turns. We've got to get them back, traditional, cultural crafts where it might and might encourage someone to do samaras, before it was.../incomprehensible/... now he's gone, because it's gone, and it's gone. We're out of everything. And I repeat again if we are not prepared as the Croatian Parliament to relieve our craftsmen and entrepreneurs in the entire area mainly 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia, if we do not have strong measures, and you make fun of these measures that the opposition gives. Why are you making fun of those measures? Why are you humiliating them? If they're too weak, it means they won't do any damage. Why don't you accept them so that the craftsmen can choose whether or not to volunteer. So we don't want to be nervous, and we don't want to be nervous when they bring in those who are a liberal political option that would have to represent more discharges, freedoms and something like that. So, I'm surprised to see why so much resistance and for which reason, Mr. Horvat's esteemed secretary of state, and especially your party of the SDSS. ... Milorad Pupovac rises here jumps for people in these undeveloped areas you can't see with a turn you can't defend yourself as much as he defends these people, how much he cares about these people of Serbian nationality who live here and I live in that area, who have a hard time living as Croatians who have a hard time living. But there aren't any, but simply guaranteed to the lady... the mayor she's here, now she's a parliamentary representative to come here and whine, yawning about how hard it is. It's hard because you adapt like a rainwater and that's it and there's the problem, you as a representative of the government I expected you to come here. So I have to talk about the problems, I mean the people of the craftsman, so the peace of mind leaves us with empty space. A representative of the government came here sitting in a chair or roaring, neither b, nor c, nor a. Is it the humiliation of parliamentary representatives and legal initiatives, opposition or authorities is the same, it is the demeaning of initiatives that are procedurally business that have legal power sent into the procedure. And instead of arguing here, the government announces measures to save craftsmen and through education and through everything it takes, mostly in areas, I repeat in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia or to give a measure, help at least craftsmen, don't put yoke on them, don't help them, triba help them. People are in trouble in this crown crisis and without the crown crisis behind this who knows what's next. So we have to do everything we can to get these locks off the back of our craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36367	We have two replicas, the first one is Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36368	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. I'll try to be clear and polite. We've been discussing this bill of yours for an hour and a half, your goal is to abolish the mandatory contribution, but this is not the option, so with this proposal you wrote, it's not possible because you don't predict it at all. So, you're still leaving mandatory membership, and art. The 81st century 2th, the 7th indent is deleted, and you are left with the last indent that says that the HOK Assembly can still make such a decision. We'll spend another three hours here and discuss something that this proposal doesn't solve, I'm just saying it. Then you could have prepared who the fellow Pavić said instead of two wipes and an art. 3. Put at least four wipes if nothing else would make sense then at least this debate, this way it doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36369	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36370	You're an agent and I'm an agent and in the case of a number of government proposals, I've been giving legal initiatives, maybe they're good or wrong, or something's not right, I'd be giving amendments. You give the amendment, here we accept it unanimously, here we raise our hand in advance for all of what you've said, but I don't know your attitude yet, whether you're willing or not to be. So, okay, if there's a thousand and one mistake, but there's a way to change, there's a way of proposing, there's a way of discussing, and you don't send a government official who sits in a chair or a chair or a chair. Uncomfortable to a man here what he's going to do, he's being referred to. So we have problems with fellow parliamentary deputies if you see a mistake in the proposal, the amendment to the proposal, agree and vote. I don't see the problem in that proposal, and you see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36371	The next replica, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36372	Dear Representative Mr. Bulj, in the thirties of the last century, Rudolf Bicanic, a well-known economic professor, traveled through the Dalmatian Zagora and wrote a book "How the Living People Lives" or "Life in Passive Ends" and there described numerous pipes, numerous cooperatives as our old Dalmatians gathered who unfortunately disappeared today, so here I am quite interested in your comment on that part. And I'd ask you, since I know you're on the ground all the time, I'm following you and the media, and I'm watching what you're doing, what do the craftsmen in the Dalmatian Zagora say, would they like to pay off this membership fee, and here's one of the best polls we have to hear people on our own?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36373	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36374	Well, I'm glad you mentioned that tradition, our history, I'm sorry they're extinct you crafts, but times change. But the tourist use of all these old crafts, I mentioned the samaras or the production of barrels, blacksmiths, so here in my Sinj to do only one tourist project, and we also have a miraculous Lady Sinjska who appeared in 715. It means 306 years, that it was crowned in 2016, 305 years only if it was on the Fortress to make this story of blacksmiths, camels, donkeys, cargo, the horse that story would have been a touristic thought 305 years of apparition from Sinjska Alka means these old crafts of extinction, the tourist community is not getting by, our education system is not working out, and it could all be tied up and it could be a unique thing to show our world, it's our tradition, our old crafts and crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36375	The next replica is the distinguished representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36376	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. Here's what I really don't think is correct or true to say that this government doesn't take care of craftsmen, so you know how much money is invested by 13 billion kunas with contributions involved to support job conservation, and that only in the last year, means to all entrepreneurs as well as craftsmen. In parallel with this, measures are also in place for, are measures of active HZZ employment policy which include a different set of measures among other things and support for employment which our craftsmen use extensively and give them wind in the back to create new crafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36377	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36378	We, as a club, when the crown crisis began, made numerous suggestions as well as opposition clubs. And it's always the government behind the stunt, we've always accepted it. The government has never accepted an opposition proposal and that is understandable. He wants to score. But by accepting this proposal, and we unanimously supported all the crown measures, but there is no one of the most important, the most important, the crucial, the crucial, for craftsmen, and for the businessmen. I'm talking about craftsmen, it's a measure of moratorium on interest and credit. Not forgiveness, but a moratorium on interest and loans as long as the crisis is going on. These banks are solvent, is the courage tribune like the Slovenians have to tell the banks you're solvable, you can also moratorium on interest and loans until the crisis is over. It would be the biggest measure and help in this crisis for our entrepreneurs, and banks who have drawn money out of their pockets are no problem, but the Tribba have a government of courage for this move, I would support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36379	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, distinguished representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36380	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues and colleagues, the current Law on craftsmanship in Article 81, shall adopt the powers of the Assembly of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, including the decision on the mandatory contribution paid by all craftsmen after the expiry of the initial period of 2 years. This contribution is limited to 2% of the basic personal income deduction in accordance with the Income Tax Act currently amounting to 4,000 kuna. In accordance with these powers, the HOK Assembly made a decision on a mandatory contribution of 79 kuna per month, meaning a kuna less than the legal maximum currently in force. There is no doubt that many craftsmen have an annual amount of contribution of 950 kuna, especially at this time of the crown crisis when many of them face a huge drop in income. However, craftsmen are small entities that can do nothing to improve the operating conditions of craftsmen. They need a strong and active association that will synergyly unite their forces at both local and national level. The representative sample should carry out a more detailed analysis of the satisfaction of chamber craftsmen as well as the efficiency of availability of the collected funds, and possibly support such a proposal based on these results. We also have no sense in the public that the HOK is like the HGK institution for entanglement of personnel by ruling or by an institution that is often found in corruption affairs. But we believe that our craftsmen have far greater concerns than these 950 kunas a year. And these are corruption that makes it impossible for them to participate more massively in public procurement processes and a low standard of citizens who are largely customers of their products and services. Let's say I come from the poorest county, the other poorest state in, from Virovitica-Podravna County. It is a county that has barely €6.5,000 per capita GDP as much as African Gabonn if you have ever heard of the country. In the total public procurement of the Republic of Croatia, our county participates with an incredible 0.7%. We're a statistical mistake. When this is accompanied by the fact that the Republic of Croatia is credible always among the first 3 countries in the EU at the level of corruption, and in smaller local areas it is particularly pronounced, it is clear what conditions are living and operating craftsmen in my county. The situation is not much better in other parts of the country where the average salary is still below 7,000 kuna and the average pension is not even 40% of the average salary. According to Eurostat estimates, real consumption per capita measured by the parity of purchasing power in Croatia is only at 2/3 of the EU average. And in this state, we are about to enter the European Monetary Union. What will our pensioners do there with an average pension of EUR 350? This should also be accompanied by negative demographic trends which drastically reduce the potential market for most craftsmen. In the last decade, we lost almost 10% of our population, and we had 10 billion kuna available for demographic measures and rural development, which they spent and mostly versed and non-intentional. The craftsmen share the fate of most of the inhabitants of this country who live from their work, are stifled by corruption and demographic and economic lagging. Perhaps the analysis will show that a mandatory contribution should be abolished, saving them 950 kuna a year. However, to significantly improve the status and standards of most of our craftsmen, it takes a lot more than that, and these are the root reforms of public administration, the launch of the country's economic growth, a shift in demographic trends and a great fight, a decisive fight against corruption in which our radars have completely failed for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36381	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36382	I thank the chairman. So here we are almost 10 hours here, talking about whether the mandatory membership of the Croatian Chamber of crafts should therefore be abolished. We have heard here arguments that the Croatian Chamber of crafts is not the same as the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. As they perform a lot of public functions, education, master's exams, workshops, organization fairs and the like, so they really support craftsmen, it's all absolutely welcome and it's welcome any help to craftsmen. So if we accept that this is the role of the crafts chamber, and now if we go back then we can conclude that the mandatory membership of HGK, the economic chamber can be abolished immediately, and the urgent ones here are saying, "Don't now touch yourself in the crafts chamber, they're not the same as the Chamber of Commerce." Yeah, so the Chamber of Commerce can be lifted, and we've seen what happened to that proposal here in the assembly, because the whole army's on their feet. How justified was the requirement to abolish mandatory membership fees in HGK showing the results of research that I spoke about today and in free speech and research published by the Telegram portal these days, so on a sample of 500 entrepreneurs, even 82.4% said they would not pay HGK membership fees in case the obligation was lifted. Why am I saying this, why do I even look back at the HGK and the above-mentioned research? So, in the public and in the media, these two institutions have somehow been watching each other for the past few years, so especially this mandatory membership fee. Again, in this survey on the quality of work assessment 70.4, 77.4% of subjects were not at all satisfied or not satisfied with the work of the HGK, which concludes that there is no mandatory HGK membership fee at all could not survive in this form as it operates today. The same defeated data, 86.8% of those who pay membership think membership should not be mandatory. So this is how one high percentage of dissatisfaction with the work of an institution in no system or state could be tolerated, but here in our country it is tolerated. Also, from this study 91% does not know the name of their reference in the economic chamber, they do not know who to turn to, 87% have never been contacted from the Chamber of Commerce. So it's about the economic chamber. In contrast, if we do not have any relevant research on the craft chamber, however, the experiences of the entrepreneurs we listen to and with which the craftsman is whether we are talking to to a large extent about whether the situation is actually similar. We know that at the head of the HOK, Mr. Ranogajek, here are the majority and members of that chamber never heard of the President of the crafts chamber who stepped into the second decade of the mass of the institution. We also hear that no help from the crafts chamber has been received even though we have heard here that they have enough whether it is public functions, but somehow members seem to be not using it or feeling that the chamber is helping them. So, in the minds of entrepreneurs, not entering into the justification of the conclusion and different traditions and geneses of those institutions HGK and HOK go hand in hand. Personally, I've never met anyone who's bitterly advocating membership in one chamber, and it's against membership fees in another whether, in fact, we have a case that entrepreneurs don't get any of these institutions massively, so they can't be angry at one institution that separates membership fees, and on the other, agree with another. For the crafts chamber, therefore, the membership fee is 76 kuna per month, 912 kuna per year and therefore beyond any doubt that the results that are here in the HGK survey could be expected to be very similar in research among the members of the craft chamber. From the crafts chamber, here, correct me if I'm wrong, we've never heard of an institution, a municipality, a city, sending a proposal to cut certain charges, a reduction of I don't know about consumption taxes, monumental rents and the like. However, there are 36 employees according to the 2019 data of officials who are outside the employment relationship, but here as president of the Primorje-Gorski County Chamber in the last 5 years, as I said, was spent on all of them, hence the gross amount of 875,000 kuna, so it is not negligible. In addition to whether all these diaries were spent on cars, fuel, went to the Zagorje Economic Choir, international conferences, Gastro Exhibition, Wine Days, Summer reception in Munchen, Gornji Bavaria, Fishing Meeting in Rab, etc. So what's the effect of all this? For example, how and how the crafts chamber is responsible for crafts interests. and that a lot of these craftsmen have now joined one and the entrepreneurial whether the association that has therefore has no obligation or membership has no obligation or membership, but here at the time of this lockdown, at the time of this crisis, they have hurried because they have realized that through this association whether they will achieve some of their interests. For the end here, I want to quote two members here, the ruling HDZ party, one of which was the minister in this government, is Goran Maric, who said in 2013: "Freedom of competition means freedom of choice, whether someone will join or not, it is not a question of government, it is not a question of state, it is a question of those who want to join or not, and please respect it. Why would the government want to be together with craftsmen? Why is it not the government's desire to join in, to have limited-responsibility societies join together, to join in? Why regulate and impose something someone wants, and maybe they don't want to? It must only be on a voluntary basis, and how much one will pay or will not decide whether he wants to be a member, whether he benefits from that association and how much he will pay that association if he wants to be a member, and that is not the question of the state to interfere. Why should the government also worry about the collection of the membership fee of an interested association, so let it worry about tax collection and all claims the state and the Ministry of Finance require, not about the collection of the HGK and the collection of the Chamber of Commerce. It should be the work of the crafts chamber itself, and this law does not even define what crafts activity is, as he said on the same day and the following, whether it is an interest to join someone, let them be left to themselves. If they're interested in paying membership fees so that they can benefit from it, we let them do it ourselves, but we don't make them. And we haven't solved the problem, gentlemen at the ministry, if he says, we've set the upper limit for them. So who are we to determine at all whether there will be membership fees or not, let alone determine the upper limit? Let us then determine the membership fee of the Bar Association, the Chamber of Architects, then enter the law that architects must also report to the Assembly to discuss them and whether we will accept such reports or not. We talk so much about freedom of entrepreneurship, and there is a direct threat to freedom of association and entrepreneurship. And I'm saying that the last freedom of a man who cannot be taken away is the freedom of his own choice. So let us let their craftsmen have their own choice whether they join together, whether they will be able to judge for themselves whether they benefit from something or not. So that's what Mr. Goran Maric said in 2013. The second one I want to quote is Mr. Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, who also said on behalf of the HDZ Club, 2013. If I'm not sure what someone he's talking to, thinks, then let's do a 21st century poll. Unfortunately, there are only 83 thousand, think of craftsmen, in a year could literally be polled with 83 thousand Croatian craftsmen and know precisely on key issues what they really think and what they really expect from their own state. So here, we're doing a survey that we're going to take into consideration, so this was a finished quote, so we're doing a survey based on what we've done, what we feel as entrepreneurs, we're afraid that the results wouldn't be good for what we consider a HOC today. One of the methods of helping that institution rationalize and improve because we're going to make it more competitive, more rational, is the suspension of the mandatory membership fee. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36383	Following individual debates, Zeljko Pavić is the first respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36384	I will try to continue there that I have stopped at the opening exhibition and draw attention to that actually right now, what is the current situation with membership fees, that actually those more wealthy craftsmen who have no problem giving and more than 79 kuna actually help those craftsmen who are poorer and get certainly more valuable services than they are paid by the amount of 79 kuna in the Chamber. And we have to keep that in mind. I also said in the beginning, if mandatory membership in the Chamber of crafts is to be abolished, we must consider what we will do with the services currently provided by the Chamber, which it currently provides, how we will transfer these powers that the Chamber currently has, how much it will cost the state and ultimately, how much the craftsmen will cost the services provided by the Chamber or some other institution, and now it gives them the Chamber for 79 kuna per month. Now, here comes my colleague Troscott, we heard from the lawyers, we have a little problem with the law itself and with the goal that we wanted to achieve, so the goal was your law, your proposal, to actually abolish mandatory membership, however, with this proposal, the mandatory membership is currently not abolished, given the articles that remain in the law, and therefore I told you that we will certainly give support to your proposal, as SDP Club, and of course we expect that in the second reading we will get more additions to your proposal with some amendments and that we will be able to discuss more quality everything that is going to happen around the Chamber and in the Chamber and the craftsmen, around the craftsmen, about their business, about education and everything else, what the Chamber is counting on. I'm not going to list everything the Chamber does since you've all received those records, I think President Commora sent you what the Chamber is doing in a short time. I've already said, I've been in close contact with the Chamber since 1987, and I really know it's been providing a lot of services and helping craftsmen, especially small craftsmen who simply can't pay for some services. If you are a craftsman, you will get every week, two, even a few times a week, an email about changes, additions, changes, what happens, what are provisions, regulations, what should be done, which, as it should be, means that little craftsman simply doesn't get to follow. We heard that too, I don't know which of his colleagues said, we have more craftsmen than craftsmen. What does that mean? This means that we have a very large number of craftsmen working on their own, and that is what needs to be taken care of. These people who work on their own, they just don't get to take care of accounting, bookkeeping, bills, entry accounts, exit accounts, deliveries and everything else, they need to have some kind of help, have some kind of suggestion, get an e-mail warning, you have to do it and then avoid the obligations that you may or may not impose a law or have to do with someone else. And it's a big favor, it's a big benefit that gives the Chamber to our craftsmen and we have to take care of it. So I agree with you, if we are going to work on this and if we vote that in some way, this is certainly not because we have to change it, so this law does not abolish the mandatory membership fee, but if the membership fee is lifted, we need to see who will offer these same services or similar services to craftsmen at that or lower price. And that the craft chamber should be on the market and charging for its services, it is a little bit questionable to you because after that they will then charge the same services to craftsmen, but it can no longer be at this price. You yourself said that then you expect that the revenues of the chamber will be far greater and we need to think about it well. If our goal is to help craftsmen, craftsmen, develop craftsmanship, then we need to think about how to formulate it and how to find ways to help craftsmen if the chamber really happens to change the way they work or in some other way something changes in the chamber itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36385	We have one replica, please hold, Agent Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36386	Thank you very much. You've touched a lot of things here now, I'd only touch the transparency of the report and the transparency of the business chambers. The Croatian Chamber of crafts is one of the most transparent chambers. In fact, if you look at a parallel display of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, it is one that gives the most information about its work including sponsorship and donations. It does not give the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, it does not give a lot of other chambers. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce actually gives nothing. What we get here on the table, it's like any other balance we can read or not and say it's great or it's not. But we're removing an institution that's supportive, which is very transparent and that's what I want to ask you. How do you actually see the Croatian Chamber of crafts in this sense as an example to other chambers of transparency?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36387	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36388	As far as I'm concerned, I think we can say that the chamber, the craft chamber, is definitely an example of other chambers doing business even though we have an example of a merger of public notebooks, we have a few more examples of chambers that do well and that have a similar way of reporting, but the crafts chamber has one long tradition. In that chamber, the chamber is operated exclusively by craftsmen, so there are no people on the side. They are exclusively craftsmen in the bodies of that chamber. And actually when they do reports, they do reports for themselves and for their fellow craftsmen. Either through the pipes or at the level of the association of craftsmen, at the level of the municipality, the city, the county, but they work for themselves and for their colleagues who are in daily contact with business. So they don't work for someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36389	Thank you. Next is an individual, next debate by Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36390	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, you could hear my position on the chamber approach of a lot of things in a lot of debates in this high house. But I think the Croatian Chamber of crafts is something that we should actually approach in a completely different way. I can tell you now about the way she's legally formed, I don't want to, but I'll just tell you that every craftsman's association is a legal person, that every real estate or any other property that the craftsman's association has means is subject to that, to those craftsmen who are members, etc., but which is actually a limited number. So it's not the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which is one legal person, it's more legal person, it's a billion legal persons. I want to tell you something else, the Croatian Chamber of crafts at least in my opinion is one of the few chambers that justifys its existence. And I'll tell you why. Croatian craftsmen, if you take statistics even though I hear grano salis, every statistic is the exact sum of incorrect data, but if we take them, most of our craftsmen are either self-employment or employment up to a maximum of 5 people, but usually it is self-employment. If you consider that every turn is one to two people, if you consider the challenges that those challenges meet on the labour market, generally on the market, we can talk about it by tomorrow and 5 minutes about it would not be enough, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is indeed what a supporting institution should be. And that's what you want from accounting. You want from legislation. You want from representation. units of local self-government, Croatian economic, Croatian crafts chamber is indeed what justifies its business at least in my opinion. Through his work, and part of it included fairs or Osijek Fair, I was in very close contact with both chambers. And about HGK, he wouldn't be spending too much of it right now, focusing on HCK. At least, I'm telling you that as someone who's lived with them, who's been in a very close business relationship with them, lives with their members. And that's the important difference. That's what HOC should be, if you ask me. Because at least here, I can tell you directly, the Association of craftsmen Osijek is something quite different from what we get as feedback when we talk about county HGK. It is an association that lives with its members, who knows that they live, which accordingly gives them the services they need. And the services you need, as a craftsman or as a stockholder or as a limited liability company, are importantly different. You will, we want to talk about accounting, we want to talk about the specific services you need, the advice you need, etc. To ask me, I'm on the market as d.o.o. or crafts and if you ask me which chamber helps me more, honestly I'm telling you right now, I'd rather be a craftsman and with a lot more trust I'd talk to my colleagues and colleagues in a craftsman's association than the HGK because I think what they can give me is a lot more consistent with what I need and I think that this HOK can actually be an example of our chamber association than transparency and, on top of that, access to that problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36391	Time. We have a replica, the esteemed representative Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36392	My dear colleague, I think you realize, therefore, that this amendment of the law is not, is not going in the direction of abolishing the Chamber of crafts, nor is it slow about having, the Chamber of craftsmen, so it has good functions and public services, is it, that it offers its members. If members are satisfied, they will likely continue and pay their membership fee. So this is, therefore, the intention is to determine membership, not to be mandatory but voluntary. If people are satisfied, they'll continue to pay their membership fee in a warm manner. Do you agree with that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36393	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36394	My colleagues, in part, yes, and in part, no. I'm saying again, I've also been discussing the HGK and you've heard someone else. But here I'm going to ask you, you're a representative, would you pay for a parking lot in Mark's square or wouldn't you? And the question is, are you going to get it or not? So that's your point. HOC gives you support when you need it. You're alone, you're a craftsman, you don't have, so you're neither likely to hire a wide circle of people nor so you're very limited. Let's say that you're some craftsman is who, who isn't so wanted, is, say, a carpenter, as you could see in Checked the other day, I believe. So you can't compare it to HGK and you can't put it in the same basket because it's not. HOK is a lot, a lot.../incomprehensible/... yes, you understand what I mean. [[Intruder: Time.]] help than it is HGK. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36395	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36396	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. Here, we've already heard a lot of things about what a craft chamber is and a lot of facts. I also personally believe that the Chamber of Commerce is significantly different from the Chamber of Commerce and that it cannot be treated at all and that these proposals for amendments of the law are hasty. I may be a little subjective here, because I come from a family that has been a craftsman since 1960, my father-in-law created a craftsman's chamber in the city of Zadar and was therefore one of the oldest craftsmen in the city of Zadar and I saw how they function, how much personal energy and time they spend on all of it and for it, as it has been said, had no compensation and had to be an active craftsman and only in a way that helped themselves and others to position themselves on the market, to go to fairs, to establish certain contacts and thus be recognizable and potentially affecting legal changes. Here, that's how it works and now the Chamber of crafts, and that's how my husband who was in the same position, so I can say it with a lot of responsibility and knowledge about it being completely something else. They are in both sections and very well, articulatingly following and respecting each and every one of them and listening to everything they need to make certain legal changes. The current Chamber also has since 2015 the release of the chamber contribution for the first year, and since January 2021, even 2 years. All that the Chamber is doing, and we see that there are only 26 permanent employees and very good territorial deployments. I don't think this kind of bill is good and it doesn't do any good to those people. When you look at that there are 24 more chambers of expertise in the Republic of Croatia except for HGK and HOK, then we can ask ourselves, which is why we do not also influence it, so the chamber as such has its purpose and purpose. Therefore, I think that the craftsman is also in one way a difficult circumstance when, here is Mr. Pavić talking about that the crafter corresponds to all of his assets unfortunately and I think it is not good and that as we have the possibility of j.d.o. or simple where they have the basic capital and do not correspond to their entire assets but as d.o.o. And so, and with the core capital, I think it would help craftsmen if they intervened in that part that they didn't match all of their assets because there are a lot of those who are now in that register who guaranteed their assets or were giving in charge of something, etc. So I think that this and this bill of law is not good at all and that the craftsman's chamber in any case fulfils all of its powers and powers without saying how many young people are educated to train them to be masters and not receive compensation for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36397	Here, the time, we have several replicas, is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, what you just said, I absolutely agree. So I listened very carefully to you, and I can't really find works that I disagree with. But what I would ask you now is when we talked about HGK, you didn't really talk the same thing, and I didn't hear the arguments that would convince me that you were for HGK, and that you were against HOK, is that I think that's mixing pears and apples. You have a chamber that lives with its members, you have a chamber that doesn't do it, and that's what members tell me themselves, and on the one hand you're for preserving the HOK, which I absolutely welcome, but you're not for putting on the market HGK, which I can't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36399	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36400	The Chamber of Commerce and if we stand by the position, and that is the view that it is a German way of association, then it is an economic chamber, and so the craftsmen have compulsory contributions. Is the way of organising the crafts chamber itself, so it came from the members themselves where they were created in this way. According to this analogy, the HGK was also obviously produced, it was once a chamber of commerce and as it was produced, so according to that analogy, it happened the same way. Did she change after she was born, perhaps, or did she take a leak? in a certain way, that's another question. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36401	The next replica is the distinguished representative Anita Pocrnic Radosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36402	As you have already mentioned, the craft chamber is also formed on the principle of county chambers, one of which is the craft chamber of Ličko-Senj County, so it has 1150 members and belongs to smaller chambers. The craft professions are unfortunately more and more deficient occupations, and especially in sparsely populated areas such as Ličko-Senj County, which is precisely the important role of a craft chamber that cares about these deficits, helps students prepare and enroll in schools, as well as works on the licensing of crafts which enables this practical part of teaching to be attended, participates in the conduct of auxiliary exams, but also in master exams as part of lifelong education. I wonder how much, what do you think if the craft chamber can't carry out such activities, and as a result of insufficient funding, who's going to take over that part or run out of services that have been funded by the craft chamber?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36403	Time, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36404	Thank you very much. My colleagues, in 2013 was the intervention where the Law on craft was forced to amend, and then the crafts chamber was actually lost power, public powers, and in this way were lost in fact many, many jobs or places that would be educated, over 30,000 are assumed to have actually lost some future craftsmen because the crafts chamber really led quality education and care to create quality new crafts and set up actually opportunities for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36405	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36406	Thank you very much, dear colleague, dear vice president of the assembly. Here's my colleague, we both come from craftsmen's families, my mom was a craftsman for a long time, and I'm personally... At some point in my career, I remember when we talked, even though you personally talked about what craftsmen and craftsmen meant for the city of Zadar from which you came. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know that in Dubrovnik, Festanjula, one of the Festivals comes from the ranks of craftsmen, therefore, exactly the craftsman’s chamber, what you said yourself, comes from the Czech association, comes from the fact that they join together and as such, they mean a lot to the areas in which they live. Well, here's from your personal experience since you come from a craftsman's family, what did the chamber, the organization and the development of craftsmen in the city of Zadar mean for the city of Zadar?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36407	Thank you very much. Very much, in fact, when you look at that Zadar was once as much bigger, more industrial city than it is now, so certain industries disappeared before the Homeland War, very quickly people just turned to other activities, to crafts and thus, no matter what in the industry, the textile industry, mesitrating where there were 3,4,000 employees, very quickly they reoriented and in this way actually kept quality and survived at all, and if we consider the Homeland War, then the craftsman had certainly revived and here, we didn't, we even have an increased number of employees compared to the previous period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36408	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36409	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, make your own choices and make decisions, plan, develop, perfect through work, learn, teach others, take care of others makes life a craftsman who is many times not easy or easy. This is exactly the way they join the chambers, there is the Croatian Chamber of crafts representing all craftsmen, activities, aligning their interests and, of course, representing all members of the crafts chamber. Most of the predecessors agreed, I agree they're doing a transparent job. With such arrangement, the craftsmen were assured of independence by, of course, the state. What would the absence of such a unique system for craftsmen mean, and what would of course happen to that crafts chamber system if such compensation were lifted?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36410	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36411	Well, here's what I can say, let's say the craftsman's chamber works very well with craftsmen and also with vocational schools. When you go to the artisan training, then you check in what status it looks like, whether the safety is satisfied with all the students who will come, etc., and in particular, any craftsman who mentors each student, in fact there is no compensation for it, but it is a very important link in education, and in this way I think that would be terribly lost in the education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36412	Next replica, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36413	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Peric, you were talking about family experience in crafts, so here I can say that my husband has been a craftsman for over 30 years, and I don't think that's just the case with you, since in our neighborhoods, craftsmanship has a special tradition. In my Sibenik-Knin County, over 60% of the businessmen are just doing business as craftsmen. We've got 3,500 of them, and they only have 3,000 employees. If we know that individual craftsmen have more employees, then we'll conclude that they're mostly just these employees and they're the only ones working and they need a lot of help, right in that craft chamber of ours. That's where they get both legal and financial support. Through the craft chamber can be presented on the market, they can get different information, they are certainly necessary, especially when we know that 40% of these craftsmen are in service activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36414	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36415	So, yes, thank you fellow Members, this craftsman really meant a lot to them because none of the craftsmen or very rarely had any more than 3 guesses, at least with us and in this way they actually had very good cooperation where this craft chamber gave them both advice and legal advice and here, if and now, look how much help it would be for craftsmen to achieve this right and compensation for their employees of these 4,000 kn, so all the right and advisory functions that the craftsman would have to pay at what prices, in fact that craftsmen are very important to them in doing their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36416	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Katica Glamuzina. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36417	There he is, thank you, Vice President. My colleague Peric, you said that craftsmen among other things are difficult because they are responsible for their business results with personal property. In addition, craftsmen find it difficult because they cannot deal with all the activities of the national classification of activity, they find it difficult because unlike j.d.o. or d.o.o. when reporting activities, they have to meet much more conditions than they have to, they find it difficult because the last national classification of activities was carried out in 2007 and is lacking in relation to the needs of today's market. So since it's clear to all of us that regardless of tonight's debate, no one will vote on this proposal tonight and that the craft chamber will continue to function as it has functioned so far, if you can't break up through your colleagues in power, you may be able to help through your father-in-law and husband to get at least this craft chamber to solve what the real problem really is, so let it have its own purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36418	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36419	You know, I didn't say some things, you did, I did just say certain things, but while my father-in-law was alive, then he worked for the Chamber and all those who were active, very well, and also the current Chamber of craftsmen through their lines are very helpful in many cases when it was necessary, here, to make certain changes both in terms of VAT and in the use of excise duties, i.e. the return of excise duties and various other laws, i.e. bill proposals, and therefore, their voice is heard and very active because they are very much listening to what they need to be done and corrected in legal proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36420	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36421	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, given the current situation and the difficult recovery of craftsmen due to the Covid crisis, do you feel that the Chamber of crafts has taken a strong enough role in representing its members and in taking the necessary measures to ensure that their operations survive, since you yourself have said that they correspond to the entire assets for their business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36422	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36423	So I'm saying, Chamber of crafts, I think it's very important to protect every single craftsman. Through their houses and through their association, they are very well articulating their needs and sure that there are always opportunities for improvements there, but I think they are very active, very agile and that through their bodies they are very well articulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36424	The next replica, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36425	Dear colleague Peric, you are interesting to listen to, especially as you come from the ruling majority. When you come from the ruling majority, then you're the ones who can change things and interesting when you realize what the problems of craftsmen are, and you don't change them. You realize that the craftsman's problem corresponds to his property, and here, among other things, it was said that the craftsman's chamber meets all its goals. We were on the same committee where the President of the Chamber said he was aware that there was a need to change, that it should be upgraded, so I ask you, are you saying that they meet their goals, or do you think it should be improved as President of the Chamber said?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36426	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36427	Well, I'm not saying that everything is ideal and that it's all settled, that it's all settled, then we wouldn't be changing the laws here and making some other laws. Surely much more will change and may already be in the proposals for a certain change. So I'm not saying that everything's settled, and they know everything, so they're very good at articulating their needs, and I'm sure they'll do a lot more good. And I'm saying, if everything was settled, then I'm sure we wouldn't be here talking about change and needs so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36428	Dear Representative Željko Pavić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36429	Dear MPs, we are all aware here of the fact that actually craftsmen, craftsmen open that craft for which they are professional. A craftsman cannot open a craft for which he is not professional, unlike, you just mentioned simple companies that can open anyone and this company can deal with any business regardless of which qualification his owner or director or responsible person has. So I would like to point out, craftsmen who have opened their crafts, who are professional in their section, who have organized themselves through the Chamber of crafts, they are seeking support in a way that the Chamber helps them in all their non-professional jobs and I have already mentioned it in my presentation. That's why we've got professional people in the Chamber who help them in their accounting, finance, and they're reporting taxes. amending the legislation, and... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36430	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36431	Yeah, that's right. Each craftsman remains a craftsman no matter what function he performed in their bodies or was active, but in any case he must be professional in a work that works and only survives on the market. So all these other organizational forms that exist, I mentioned that j.d.o. is something that may have arisen very, very awkward, so then we can't be surprised now that some anomalies occur in such forms of organization and what they actually on the market have done in some things where, for example, the craftsman is not protected either by payment deadlines, nor by other things that should certainly be fixed in the system that does not happen that he is just coming into trouble doing those non-payment deadlines. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36432	On behalf of the promoter, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36433	The HOC should be an independent chamber on the voluntary membership of all craftsmen. However, it is mandatory in Croatia and is headed by Dragutin Ranogaec, a prominent candidate for mayor, I have here a picture you can see along with our colleague Tušek and Martin Dalic, so Dragutin Ranogajec is otherwise the mayor, the mayor's candidate, yes, the mayor of Zagorje. The past term... speaks of independence of distinguished colleague Peric of the Chamber of crafts, only the problem is that she would not turn out to be a bank of pigs or hide a party. Look, you'll see who was last mayor of Zagorje's HDZ candidate... Mr. Comrade Tušek at the presentation. So we have a problem here one, whether the HOK is a HDZ branch or a HOC of all craftsmen. No, no, this is a mayoral candidate. Feel free to replicate, so everything's fine. I'm usually a man of the Democrats, and I'm always saying that all people can run, but then we have to tell the truth is obviously he's not the President of the Spirit of the World, so you're basically defending it. So mandatory membership, I would like you to repeat the measures to craftsmen, mostly measures in rural areas, but throughout the Republic, if every craftsman is a difficult moratorium on interest and credit, here I would prefer it much more than imposing mandatory membership. What is the problem with voluntary membership? Nothing. So I think once again that the proposal on mandatory membership in these moments for craftsmen is a huge problem, mostly I repeat in rural areas where people simply have 500 out of tax burdens removed from their yoke, I will repeat that. It is very difficult for people, especially this crown crisis and market and very little investment and coordination of our education system with the needs of the market, so we can go back to traditional turns that are equally significant, should be in the Republic of Croatia because we are a tourist state. I mentioned that here in Dalmatia where we come from and colleague Perić and part of us parliamentary representatives, but in other parts of me, I think that in tourism and in the land part of the old crafts would have great importance that there are feelings of TZ, HOK and strategy as people in these areas mainly rural ones. Very few of us have more blacksmiths, very few of us have those who work for donkeys. It's funny to you, but the fact that these crafts are tribals to be a tourist brand, people to it young, our younger generations can't even see it anymore, and how much that would mean in the tourism promotion. As far as craftsmen themselves are concerned, membership is a burden on them and a yoke and we need to find the best model to make chamber choices in the market and that they choose craftsmen themselves whether to pay for it or not. And that's the most democratic thing that can be, and they know best what they want, so nobody knows better than them. And this is how to turn into a branch and see here that the president of the HOK is also a candidate for mayor doesn't bother anyone, we're a democratic state, but so much to politicize and turn the HOK into a party branch, it's not good, it's not good. The one who will run for mayor, which is democratic, which is allowed, which is good then he was going to leave the Chamber of Commerce, and no, I doubt that he used that membership fee well for himself for promotional purposes, see if it was a lip glow, Martina Dalic fine chandelier, all nice, look at the pictures, promotion excellent in Zagorje County. So there may be suspicion that this money went to him for the campaign and that he's using I mean a thousand and one reason, so at the time you were running for mayor, then you can't have an independent institution, an institution that you say I'm tearing down, you're tearing it down, you're adopting it, it's not just yours or your mother-in-law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36434	Time. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36435	Thank you very much. I think he's hurt. The 232th theme... of speech, namely I'm not Mr. Early Man's fan, he can be HDZ, he can be HNS, I don't care. If he's looking after Hook's interests, that's a different story. We also had a fellow Burilovic who doctored on sugar, so does he keep the interests of the Croatian sugar industry and protect the interests of the chamber that chose it? No, it doesn't matter at the end of the day. At the end of the day, it's important whether we need this chamber or not, and I think we should do the HOC.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36436	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica, you have a warning. Replicated representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36437	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Bull. Do you think it would be much better if the appointment at the head of the HGK and the HOK were removed from the political paws? On the other hand, would this gap from the policy of action of both the HOK and the HGK make it better and better quality for those who pay for such a form of harak? The same question applies to the mandatory HRT subscription.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36438	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36439	Well, I would agree with you that 500 outside of tax duties, with large taxes from craftsmen and entrepreneurs, of course, that both the HOK and the HGK should be on voluntary membership and that under political paws is visible in the reactions of certain parts of the SDP, certain parts of the HDZ, we see also the violation of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Highukovic that these reactions are understandable. Everyone keeps a piece of their cake and it's not a good message. Of course, any member of the HOK and anything and the HGK can be a member of whatever party they want, but if you're going to be an active politician and be the president of a craftsman's chamber, one institution, then she's not independent, I'm going to say she's not independent, she's in trouble, she's in trouble, she's in trouble, she's in trouble, she's in trouble, she's in trouble, she's in trouble, she's in trouble, she's in trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36440	The next replica of the Bellimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36441	Dear Mr. Bulj, here's Germany is recognised in Europe as the mother of compulsory fees and based on this German model, and the fees are mandatory to many countries, so Austria, through Austria and the former countries of Austria-Hungarian countries. However, Slovakia has succeeded, so it has succeeded, it, it operates on a market principle, and even here, Germany has recognised the market principle of Slovakia and invested certain federal money in that small central European country. Here, as you see it, a small country has managed to go to this market principle and one Germany which is the main one in these forced memberships in Europe, and that is, it has funded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36442	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36443	This very market principles here we should defend tonight and this law of Hrebak, for example, he should have been the chief advocate, and I'm a little bit, and here I have some sort of isolated opinions in certain other things where strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia should be subsidized, so I'm a little different from the Croatians, but Hrebac will be against what he represents. But in principle, if something is under our paws, under the paws of politics, the influence of politics, if we have 500 paranamets then out of tax, then we know that we're going in, that it's, I mean simply our craftsmen fail, they're under loads, they can't pay their workers, people are leaving, they're shutting down their crafts, they're not competitive. Of course some countries such as, are on, on this based and this is a good proposal, we have to think about it no matter what I am in certain parts not quite liberal like this, I am still here in some parts where it is important for Croatia that we have the right to subsidise, if Germany subsidises the car industry in crises why don't we get your shipbuilding. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36444	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36445	Your Honor, here's a simple question. Since we've heard a lot of these discussions today, we've heard a lot about craftsmanship, about the way craftsmen do business, about their competences, about how they organize, about how the crafts chamber works, about how we've heard most of it, we haven't heard everything, but we've heard a lot of it. One simple question. Since for the time being, after this consolidation of the parties that are currently in place, the chamber cannot be shut down just like this, and if we lift the membership fee, it is definitely not going to be possible to do business. Do you think that before that we should restructure the public sector or the ministry and prepare that step or can we do it overnight, so what happens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36446	My colleague Pavic, I've never seen anyone here write a tribune to shut down the HOK, you can't see it in the proposal. I don't know how time goes, somehow more and more of you from the SDP are getting closer to HDZ positions, he gave that, which is why I don't know about the crafts chamber, I don't really know what the reason is if you can explain it. There is no mention in this proposal of shutting down the crafts chamber as an institution. Here is a proposal for voluntary payment means membership... No, you said shutting down, giving the tribune to do reforms, yes, giving the triba to change things, but 500 charge, it's problematic, it's problematic. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Otherwise, when the opposition proposes some law, we often become unique, but here on the crafts chamber, it's a little bit wrinkled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36447	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36448	Yes, my colleague Vice President, I think he's hurt. 232. In fact, there is no talk here about whether or not some proposal is in agreement with the HDZ proposal, this is about what craftsmen get the most from the law that exists and I think we should stick to it and that's the topic of conversation and that we should stay on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36449	Okay, I'm not gonna give you a heads-up because you were right the last time because of this, but that's the practice in this assembly, your colleague said yesterday that we shouldn't stop people in important debates that have nothing to do with the topic of the agenda, and then that practice, it's only 11 o'clock, so we have time, we're going to continue because Mr. Bulj has to come forward a few more times after each of your discussions, and practice is like that, the subject has nothing to do with the agenda and this point of the agenda, but that's our practice. Let's move on, the next individual debate, and Mr. Bulj has reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36450	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. After confirming my thesis of counterpart Hajdukovic on the SDP's approach... I'm withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36451	Since he generously withdrew his breach of the Rules of Procedure, I thank Mr. Bulya. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36452	I'm sorry. No, I'm glad my colleague pulled this injury, so I'll take it back, too, I'll just say we didn't agree. [[You don't understand the attacks on the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36453	Well, you did pull the same colleague, not you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36454	Art. 232, my colleague Bulj avoided the answer to my question and actually misread my question. So my question was, since we have established that the chamber is being financed, funding from this membership fee if the membership fee of this obligation is lifted is a great probability that the chamber would be abolished because it couldn't exist. That was my question, do you think that in that case we should do something before then to reorganize, restructure the ministry and the bodies that would take over a part of the chamber's affairs. That was my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36455	What do you say, was it now your replica or your question of the breach of the Rules of Procedure? All right, come on to you, we'll still give you a warning so Bulj doesn't hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36456	Well, nothing, here's nothing, I'm pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36457	You're pulling the peace out?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36458	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36459	Okay. Thank you, Miro. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36460	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues here may be before midnight we finish even though it doesn't seem that way, but I am sorry that, in these final statements, that we are going back to that personal level in the moments when on this right hand side we have made it clear that the system of the crafts chamber has been reformed in 2013, that since 1.1 this year new craftsmen have not paid the chamber for the first 2 years. When we also said that chamber officials are not chamber employees, that they do not receive salaries, they must have an active turn in the chamber. When we cited that the chamber has done 90,000 auxiliary exams so far, 23,000 master exams. When they are included in training programmes in the workplace. When they do exactly a significant step in vocational education where 80% of unemployed young people on the stock market make up people of secondary and lower education, then we descend on that to a personal level, so Mr. Ranogajac is under no idea which handful of HDZ, that's incorrect. Mr. Ranogajac is not a member of the HDZ as an independent candidate, Mr. Bulj you will have opportunities, he went as an independent candidate to the elections. I also believe that he would stop being the director or president of the crafts chamber. We have examples where people who have been in politics are very active, here I remember Mr. Veljko Ostojić, the Croatian Association of Tourism, and with him we have excellent cooperation even though he was a former minister in the SDP government. Therefore, it is someone's right to run for elections I think everyone has and talk about it and to put the thesis that it is under HDZ's paw absolutely does not stand. Personally, here is my colleague Troscott, I know that you are the driver of this initiative, and I will not stick to you any more labels, but as one of the opposition MPs who is more prepared in the debates, who is really preparing for the debates, I am sorry to see the law of the 3 articles where nothing significant is complemented and does not encroach on the system of the craftsman's chamber. There is nothing about vocational education, there is no reflection on how we will ensure the workforce, there is nothing here program, and there I really have to commend the chamber as the minister of work myself and with Mr Ranogajec and the president of the Zagreb Association of craftsmanship, they were also co-creators of certain HZZ measures. Let's say training in a workplace where on one side a crafter gets a person in training who is training in the workplace. That person gets paid. The craftsman gets the mentorship cost, and here I especially thank Mr. Petar Simic, he is not a craftsman, but he is a great employer from Vinkovac. For that measure we got inspiration and when we were on, visiting his company CNC lasers. Therefore, many of the things we have designed through the education and teaching system where hundreds of thousands of young people have the opportunity to train and get a job, winning the qualification of the crafts chamber has played a great role there. Today you can get 130,000 kuna for self-employment, if you open your own crafts up to 130,000 kuna. The craft chamber is a chamber. So they started with a bott up approach, or they go with an integration approach. They've been professionalized, but each of them has to have a twist. And what I would really like to commend is for the development of vocational education. Within European funds, we have EUR 80 million for the development of vocational education. Most of the needs for jobs in Croatia are either high school or lower, especially vocational education, and there they are still one of the main stakeholders of this very kind of education and on such European projects I absolutely congratulate them. All in all, we have to keep them, and I expect the law to have more than 3 articles and think a little deeper. on the development of such systems. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36461	We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36462	Thank you, Vice President. That's how good you were in the debate you only have my replica. Do you have any idea how much Would the price of professional and in-house examinations be if it were paid in full? [[Is that a compliment?]] It's the same question of licensing who would do it, whose authority would that be? What if the licensing doesn't take place in one year? What about students who couldn't do practice if the school couldn't provide them with it in their workshops? Thanks, I was good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36463	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36464	Well, my colleague Nikolic, I don't know if it's a compliment or if you're just this one or maybe my colleagues are afraid of me or maybe I'm this sharp in my answers I don't know, but it's too late, you've asked certain questions. Yes, vocational education was the focus of this government. The EUR 80 million was available for vocational education and one of the key projects was the centres of competence exactly where vocational schools were further updated, one of the facilities was also to go to get people educated through work in companies, I personally launched a lot of measures that trained thousands of people in crafts. I suggest you look at the training at the workplace, the mentoring system that was established there, maybe you'll learn something a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36465	Okay. Thank you very much. It's a shame we don't have any replicas, but good thing we do, that's it. No, I don't. [[Agreement: There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] That's boring. The next individual debate, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36466	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start from one thing Mr. Troscott said in his presentation, and that pulled the parallel between socialism and today's state of craftsmanship, and I'm going to tell him, I can go a little further, to Austro-Hungarian when this Chamber was founded, but the only thing that this craftsmanship pulled out of socialism is actually a relationship with this craftsmanship, and that relationship is not good, and that's what the key problem is, and I, when we talked on the board, said, I'm glad that this proposal was submitted, not that I agree fully with him and that this first reading would be because it would be expected that colleagues from the ruling majority, since this is the first reading, are making comments that we would want to improve, and we heard them today that there are things that in craftsmanship can improve. We are also aware of the fact that Covid changed business from the foundation, not only to large companies, but especially to craftsmen, and that the Chamber of crafts responded significantly better than the Chamber of Commerce at the time when she was supposed to represent her members, we can agree, we also said on the board, I don't think there's anyone in this Chamber who doesn't think that the Chamber of Commerce is doing a part of his job well. Does it work perfectly, no, because the president himself said that they are not at Austria level, and if we have to compare, then I guess we should compare ourselves with better than we are, strive to be like that and contribute to this society in such a way that in this case craftsmen, they have an environment where they can do better business. What is being asked here as another question, that is, we are witnessing that Europe will help Croatia because of this Covid crisis, i.e. it will help us with 6 billion or three billion loans. My simple question on the right is how many of these craftsmen are going to get, how much the craftsman's chamber has been fighting for these funds, that's what we've heard there's a link between the President of the Chamber of craftsmen and HDZ, I'd really like one of them to replicate to me and to answer that the craftsmen know what they're going to get and how much they're going to get. This proposal that came before us, it is actually trying to point to one problem in Croatia, which is the problem of parafiscal accusations. And you, that parafiscal problem, burdens the economy with both craftsmanship and the rest of the economy, and I must say, I don't understand why the HDZ that has power sees the problem, acts the bird that puts its head in the sand, and today, here, and on the previous wheel, everyone agreed that there was a particular problem, that it should be solved, but they put their head in the sand and said, they won't solve it. Here, you agree that there is a problem with parafiscal accusations, that there is a problem with answering your own property, that there is a problem with schooling, which you do not try to solve, here is one attempt to open a topic. That's how I realized it. That's what I said on the board. That's why it's the first reading. Until the second reading, I believe that with quality work, suggestions, the contribution can all improve and be what will contribute to this society, and thus to craftsmen. Here, I won't be coming back, yes, there are a few replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36467	Here we have, First Replicator Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36468	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, you see how much we care about our colleagues from the HDZ for crafts when all that's left is a colleague of Peric's. Here, it's so much concern, let alone give you a replica. And the other thing that I'm interested in, I stayed a little consterned with that fact is that we heard that the chamber system was reformed in 2013, a colleague and that it was a great reform. That's fellow Pavić, if I'm not mistaken. So I ask you, 2013, whose authority was that? In 2013, who made this reform that was so great, which someone at the age of 23 was unable to implement, here's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36469	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36470	Thank you very much for asking, I hope the government was the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the government was then led by Zoran Milanovic, if that was what you wanted to hear. And yes, HDZ today defends that it was well carried out and that today what we have about the Chamber of Commerce is much better than what was before, I agree with it, but I also agree with colleagues from HDZ and with colleagues from the Bridge and with our discussions, and with the discussion of the President and the Chamber on board that there are things that can and should be improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36471	The next replica is the esteemed representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36472	Thank you. My dear colleague, since it is clear that this proposal will not go away, and we are talking about disbursement of some craftsmanship and function that the HOK has or may have, given that the imposition of membership is not the only imposition that exists, I would like to know what you think of the proposals to make, for example. someone who has a coffee shop as a craftsman and someone who has a coffee shop like D.O.O. is not in the same position because whoever is in the d.o.o. He can hire whoever he wants, regardless of his professional equipment to work as a waiter. A craftsman cannot, a craftsman must have someone who has passed professional training for a waiter or a food server and drinks which, of course, cost a craftsman. Maybe that's the direction to go and to get HOK to work on things like that, to dissipate its craftsmen from such burdens that cost them and those obligations that no one else in other forms of organization has.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36473	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36474	I can only agree with you, but as far as I understand from the discussion of the HDZ colleagues they are fully aware of it and I hope that by the second reading of this proposal, they will not, here they say they won't, I'm sorry they won't, but here. I agree with you, but the ruling majority says it won't help craftsmen and what they know they need help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36475	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36476	Thank you, Vice President. So here I would refer to that link between the president of the chamber and HDZ. So do you really think there's no connection between the president of the chamber and HDZ? So here's the first reconstruction I would suggest in the chamber to go in that direction so, say, the president of the chamber could be someone who wasn't an independent candidate who would actually support these next elections or previous HDZ elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36477	Well, a good fellow from the Bridge wrote very clearly what was going on and what doubts woke him up, but I really hope the president of the chamber lobbys for his members and does his job. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36478	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36479	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will separate this story today that I hear in two parts, one is institutions, and the other is your abuse of authority and these institutions and the way you manage these institutions because you can't trick me into the story that because a mandatory member of the HOC will be abolished that this institution disappears. Are you telling me your craftsmen are incapable of surviving on the market? No, she's an incompetent clientele you put there to run those craftsmen, they can't survive on the market. They need a job or else they'd be at the Employment Service, and unfortunately, those craftsmen you like here are trying to save the rock under that yoke you gave them, through a socialist system we haven't gotten rid of in 30 years. Why? Well, because the same system was run by the same people who ran it today. We're the only country in this Europe whose system hasn't changed in 80 years, the same people run it, so of course these same people will maintain the same system and we'll have the same management and forced membership, logically, so they won't change their head. And okay, we see that line that you're pulling all the time, but don't make fools of us, so at least honestly tell us what's on things or think that the whole of Croatia believes what you're talking about today. One is institutions, the other is your abuse of these institutions and the authorities you've been acting for many years. Split it up. An institution like HOK is fine, but it's not a good way to use those institutions. HOK is good for helping craftsmen and with all their list of things she does, but it's no good to impose on craftsmen that they have to pay. The first thing they have to pay for when they open the turn is that lock of yours. Who? To exploit these people in a way that you represent the main people of such chambers and such institutions as your great candidates in the elections. No. He was independent. Is Mr. Tušek, who took his picture with him, and Martina Dalic, who you put in Podravka independent? What's the word, so someone from the SDP didn't take a picture with that independent. That's what I'm mad at when you make fools of us all. Well, at least say it honestly, and we'll be fine. I heard you say we're not gonna change anything, and it's fair when you say we're not gonna change anything, but when you come to me when I listen to you here, you show me the papers and you say no, I think that's Mr. Pavić sitting up there said you didn't do anything, you're changing one sentence. Mr. Pavić, what's the revolution for you? How many years have you been Minister of Labour, what have you done? Nothing. You're talking about how important it is to move that chamber forward, how important it is to develop the system. In particular, tell me one thing that you've done to make this system develop? Zero, and then you talk about how you're not okay with this, but this is a space shuttle for you. You understand? This is a space shuttle for you, this is a revolution. This is a revolution, you know what it's about? If you are ready, able, able to remove the membership fee, then you will show who is willing to work on market bases in this Croatia, or who is capable of rewarding and not your clientele. The capable that cannot breathe from your yoke. You scratch them, you beat them, and as such, we call them, you defend them here, you defend no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36480	Time. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36481	Dear Mr. Petrov, I'm sorry to see you descending to your personal level again, but you've hurt your ankle. In 238, you insult yourself at a personal level, as Minister of Labour 8 billion kuna, twice as much as in the previous government, invested in employment programmes, and if I only wanted to, 6 thousand kunas, women, of which the good part of the Imot region is employed, I would be proud, so, some knowledge and something I've made for this society, don't insult it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36482	Okay. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36483	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, fellow Pavic, do we live in the same country? How many billion have you shared? How many billion have you brought to Croatia? ... You didn't do anything but be a good minister about perfume, you were the best at it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And don't speak to you anymore, and don't deceive this people under these lights. You want to convince the people that they live better, it's not true. You lied and deceived the people, lied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36484	Time, so this wasn't the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm giving you a heads-up. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36485	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. 238. Marco, with all due respect for all the good you've done, I think you have, waving paper, marginalizing and banalizing a good idea, an idea that would make life in Croatia better. Not getting into whether you yourself, Marco, could have done it yourself as an individual in the previous government or some other government, I don't think it's fair or correct what's written, what's in the common denominator is good, banalizing, waving and bringing it down to three sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36486	This, This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is your second warning, I'm warning everyone who's had two warnings, three warnings, and you're losing your right to debate. [[Intruder: Thank you for the reminder.]] He won't go home, I can stay, but he won't be able to discuss it anymore. Now we have a replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36487	counterpart Petrov, a fellow member of the ruling majority, and if part of the opposition has unfortunately approached, some institutions such as the HOC are doing their job all the time, some institutions are quoting Stip Mesic constantly. So Mesic, when he came to power for 5 years, spoke first to do the institutions his job, then for 5 years he collapsed Croatian institutions by betraying them wherever he arrived. Wherever he came. That's right here. You usurp institutions like you're protecting them, and we're tearing them down. It's actually the other way around. We fight for institutions, we fight for institutions. And you're destroying them. You're destroying them because you want them to be your branches, they want their outposts, mainly in pre-election time to have mayors, president of the Chamber of crafts, Croatia, in the Zagorje County and so on, so let the institutions do their job, I would say Your mentor, Mr. Pavic, Stipe Mesic [[Intruder: Time.]] And from your Minister Bozinović... [[Intruder: Time.]] And your colleague, Bozinović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Who did you replicate to?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36488	Mr. Bull, time. Who did you replicate to, Mr. Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36489	Mr. Bull, Mr. Bull. If they had the courage, they'd lift up the replica, but they don't even have the courage to even direct the replica and get the answer to that replica. You know why? Because they function on principle when it comes to institutions, take it by force, sell the story, like we're protecting you, benched by punishment if they raise their voice. And that's it, we can see that in both the HOK and the HGK, and we've been listening for a couple of hours to defend these institutions, I beg you, don't defend them anymore, because when you start defending them, they just have problems. Don't defend them, let them live, let them work, leave the money in their pockets so they can feed their families, not feed your clientele.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36490	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative Grozdana Perić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36491	My colleague, what you're doing here, you're doing to us, and you're doing a lot of damage to Rules of Procedure 238, because if you had guts, then you'd ask to remove all 26 chambers that exist in the Republic right now, and not to go out like this with a change of one article or one, but not that's actually funny, The way he does it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36492	So it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36493	Dear Vice President, my colleague Peric has been injured by an article. 238. If she is tired, it would be good to go home and rest, so this bill does not require the abolition of the HOK, but rather the abolition of forced or compulsory memberships, counterpart Peric. You're not familiar with the bill, or you're a little sleepy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36494	Mr. Grmoya, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a second warning. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36495	So a colleague injured Article 238, insulted his colleague Grozdan Peric, she only referred to a law written like this with this 3 but don't delete it, delete in 8 days does not mean anything, and you didn't even write it smart because you have an alibi that the HOK Assembly can make other general algorithms and even a membership decision. So go to juvie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36496	So this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a third warning and you're taking away the right words until the end of the debate. Ante Kujundzic's representative, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36497	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 was injured, my colleague Marko HGK had a problem because it was an old institution, so let's keep it as good as it was written. Proposal for a law amending the Penal Code by colleagues from the SDP, and what we are about to amend now will go anyway at the 6th month. There are three sentences here now. So, I'll underline you all know, but then let's suggest you, refer your suggestions to a guy like this for this. for what we've been looking for and we'll support them here. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36498	Mr. Kujundzic, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and you get 3 warnings and you lose the right to debate until the end, words, until the end of the debate. Dear Representative Nikolic Romana, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36499	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I just wanted to make sure that this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica, I would ask you to stop it and continue with the debate and the replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36500	You also didn't show any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you get your first warning. Uh, who else answered? Miro, did you get that? Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36501	I withdraw the breach of the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Kujundzic said at 6 months that he would pass the law did not say what years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36502	Comrade Bulj and you 3 reminders, lose your words until the end of this debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 236 was injured, a colleague named Kujundzic abused him to point out some things I don't know either. So, he used the Rules of Procedure's breach institute to point out that something the SDP wants or won't do. We have made our views clear here, and what our colleague said does not belong at all to the Rules of Procedure's breach institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36504	That's why a colleague got a warning, so you got a good call because I gave the gentleman, a colleague I gave the reminder so you didn't have to explain it further, and that's why the reminder is different to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36505	Okay, sir, Mr. Vice President, that's why I'm going to ask for the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Because I think I'm the one keeping the Rules of Procedure, who cares. [[Intruder: You can.]] calls for an article, and some replicate [[- Okay, please.]] And they don't get any warnings, and I get warnings because I don't replicate, but I call [[Intruder: Please.]] to the Rules of Procedure [[Intruder: Please.]] Well, from now on, I won't be calling on the Rules of Procedure either. [[You know very well.../]] So I'm going to replicate. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36506	I'm giving you 3 warnings now, third and then you lose your right to the end of the debate, so you, no, no, okay, you just, you just can't, you can't not give you my word, you invest in the Committee on Rules of Procedure, you can't, I didn't give you my word... You already said that, I told you to make a complaint to the Rules of Procedure Committee. [[Intruder: Speaker not enabled.]] The next replica is MP Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36507	Dear Mr. Petrov, in your exhibit, you said that this line that we've actually been looking at for the past 70 years that has not been reformed. Here is also in the opening presentation I mentioned a country which is only 25 km away from our capital, which has managed to pass through reforms and despite everything, so Slovenia is a country that has, has no mandatory membership of craftsmen in the crafts chamber. The Chamber of Commerce has carried out its reforms, they are operating on a market principle today, attract investments and on the other hand work and certain public affairs and have certain public powers which is actually quite an argument that public authorities are not, are not an obstacle to the introduction of therefore voluntary membership fees. So here's how do you comment that one of Slovenia has managed to go through these reforms that you've been talking about, and we're 80 years, unfortunately not?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36508	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36509	If the ruling would listen to arguments then I believe that much in this country would be different from the institutions to the management of these institutions, and especially to the people who manage these institutions, a lot of things would be different. I believe that also a lot of amendments that are heard here in the Croatian Parliament would be adopted because they are based on arguments. Those arguments don't listen. To them, I don't know how many times to put or push in front of both Bulgaria and Slovakia, Ma Slovenija, can't get any closer. Those arguments don't work. I don't know if you've ever seen that statue of monkeys standing here, this and this, that's what the ruling majority looks like when it comes to the Croatian Parliament. They come to you here to raise their hands as the Prime Minister says, thats it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36510	It's not very convenient that your comparison with the monkeys, that you compare the representatives to the monkeys, I think it's a little out of line, so I'm warning you. The next replica is the representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36511	Thank you, Vice President. So whatever legal proposal we've proposed here would be the reason why it's not good. And he was well-pointed here by counterpart Kujundzic when he directed fellow Pavic and MPs from the ruling majority to make their proposal, but we will not get any legal proposal, we will get one conclusion and one promise that the HOC will reform. And you know what I particularly worried about tonight? I have seen information that a large part of this European money that is intended for economic recovery will end up in the public sector and that is the problem, and there is this struggle for the preservation of these institutions where it can be loveable for the public sector, and without the entrepreneurship of Croatia will not be without our craftsmen, the entrepreneurs in which all the money is now to be invested in this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36512	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36513	A fellow Grmoy, without strong entrepreneurs, without strong craftsmen, without free craftsmen, we cannot hope for a better future and that is why we have offered this bill. I would like the ruling to have the opportunity to advance with all these proposals mentioned in speeches so that this bill could be improved. Here I am calling them at this point be free, we will, unlike others, accept all the good advice, not to be just three letters on Mr. Pavic's paper. If it's a little three letters, here's an effort and write a section, we'll take it, but finally do something. Here I call you, dare be brave, do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36514	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36515	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, the essence of the content of your proposal was actually speaking on behalf of the club, our colleague Juričegv-Martinchev. I'm going to look back at something else, and it's about a nomotechnic or a formal part. In view of the fact that part of the applicant, therefore this proposal, Mr Bulj said that this proposal abolishes mandatory membership and you leave the article. 77. The law on trade that speaks and does not delete it, and talks about mandatory membership, so I don't know if you're going to ask for a break to consult within your club is obviously you have a diametrically opposite opinion. And on the other hand, this proposal that you suggested, you weren't at the beginning, it doesn't change anything at all. You are left with an indent in Art. 81st century 2. That says that the HOK Assembly can make any other decision. You'll delete the 7th Assembly's indent can do whatever it wants, so you're not absolutely solving any problem. If you really care so much about doing something, then you would expect that you have done much more with this proposal than you have done, from these two articles to delete something. 3. who speaks when the law comes into force, that you really care so much about it, and here you speak for us and call that someone is making a fool of us. I think it's a little... [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36516	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36517	We'll accept all your suggestions, I've repeated it many times and I repeat it to you now. And if you care about that, we'll do it. Is that all, is that an indent all, all that you could think of in these five, ten, or 30 years?? Bravo. That's good. Here's what we're gonna do. What are you gonna do? I have heard that you will be brave and offer proposals to perfect the development of this system. Here I am waiting for them and I pray that I have provoked you enough to be brave enough to offer it. We'll come to another reading, I really hope for the craftsmen you've defended, like you've been defending here all along, that you're ready to really do it. Here's what I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36518	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36519	Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'd like to clarify why I signed for this agenda item. Because I think that Hook needs to be discussed, that's the first thing I signed it for, and I think it really deserves our attention. The other thing is that maybe I can still expect what, let me put it so much, to get a response from a speech machine by HDZ that it's actually not enough to make a full solution, we've been listening to it at the Chamber of Commerce, and we've listened to it at the previous point of the agenda, with me being consistent in my views, thinking that, for me and this to be accepted, it can't take effect within a week, within a week. But my colleague Petrov inspired me to talk about craftsmanship thanks to “Three Monkeys. ” Namely, I am a member of the SDP in Rijeka, of course I am not hiding it, but I must dement the government official paid by that craftsman who is the one from Rijeka, who claims, so the one who receives the state salary claims to be a spokeswoman for the government that the Rijeka SDP is nervous. I don't know why the spokesman of the government of the Republic of Croatia has to interfere and blackmail if I and my colleagues have given it nervous. Well, then I'm trying to do that, today I'm going to try to disprove it publicly, Eric Fabianic, a member of the SDP from Rijeka is not nervous. But you see, these Three Monkeys pay him, pay him. And the fact is that we understand that he didn't get all wet under the quotes, so if you look at his post at the time of Carnival, he's stuck on the early man. Yeah, he's stuck to HDZ members with saying they're not welcome. You see, I was not welcome, and no one took me for protection. Now I'm going to tell you very simply, I was with my dog, I wanted to go to Decathlon, they wouldn't let me go with the dog because it's the business policy of the house. Don't get me wrong I complained to the French ambassador about it but I didn't go to Decathlon. It's not a political case or a reason for that, and thank God, I don't have a spokeswoman on the state manger who's gonna talk about how nervous someone is. Because if it's his job, I'm sorry, it's too much, too much paid. But you see, that's what our Rijeka craftsmen pay for, and not just Rijeka. And these "Three Monkeys" became a state case. And that's what's most important in this whole story. I'll tell you the truth, I don't know the owner. I rarely go there for coffee, and you know why I'm going there for coffee? Because it is very close to the Croatian Defence Bridge where we are each year to lay our crowns to our dead comrades. And since he owns our teammate, then we're going to his place for coffee. The members of the HDZ, members of the SDP and members who are not a party but are associations of individual defence groups. Well, you see, when that kind of thing with the state apparatus that you pay taxes for, that's what we do for something that's a good story, that means we're throwing taxpayers' money away and that's a fact. And like I said, I expected one whole solution. Yeah, the craft chamber is a whole different story than the Chamber of Commerce, without further ado. But we've heard that, of course, it has been recognised than it is institutional powers, so wait, institutional powers, de facto, have to go through the membership of a craftsman, so let's charge it a little bit because if these institutional powers have to be paid by the state, and the state already collects taxes for it. And my hairstyle isn't exactly from last year, either, because my barber retired and I'm looking for a new one, you see, he complained about the state, he complained about the city, but I didn't complain about the craftsman's chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36520	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36521	Dear Representative, here you have had the opportunity to hear that much debate, unfortunately at one point these discussions have gotten out of control and replicas and debates themselves have gone into some kind of private, personal account, which is not good because I think Mr. Troscott's initiative is good and we need to talk about the chamber, not just this one, in general, since big changes are happening in our environment and we need to follow these changes and we need to be trendy. What you said, it's one very important thing. If mandatory membership is abolished, it cannot be abolished and it must not be lifted overnight, it simply cannot because we must allow the institution to continue working. Prepare that institution to be restructured, reorganised, and if mandatory membership is really abolished, there are other opportunities on the basis of which it will be able to work and prosper. Without her, The mass of craftsmen won't work. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] That's why we need to do this preparation. if it's going in this direction that the chamber can be prepared. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36522	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36523	I know a lot of people from the crafts chamber. We're not talking about the top. What's the foundation of the chamber are the Czech associations. We have in many things and by creating a Croatian state, de facto translated Austrian and German laws, but only unfortunately partially. In our neighbouring Italy, we also have the Confartigianoto, so they really look at those institutions but others, I'm talking about the crafts chamber as a role model. And they are able to even propose solutions, only we here in the Parliament have to consider and bring them. That's why they'd be doing them good and they'd be relieved of some stuff. Here, we heard something in the debate from all sides here, I say, this is my reason for our craftsmen to work even better, especially since they are certainly the part of Croatia that can recover Croatia the easiest and fastest after COVID.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36524	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36525	Thank you. Dear fellow Fabianic, you mentioned this Rijeka cafe that has been talked about so much lately, and in fact we have one situation here that one dissatisfaction is not the only one who is not satisfied, here's a little talk with the caterers, with people who are first affected by these accusations, first by these irrational measures, so it's one dissatisfaction that has culminated but the prime minister has taken advantage of this case, first of all, to mobilise it means his own party, I hear he has big problems, and I don't know if Ante Sanader is among the rebels, so he has big problems on the site and the other one has a problem in Rijeka. There are major problems in Rijeka, Miletic is a great danger, I think it is better for HDZ to beat SDP's candidate because this independent Šimac, advised by Plenkovic's court adviser, Ralkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36526	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36527	I'm not going to go into the pre-election campaign because here is the Croatian Parliament, but when we talk about the craftsmen, about the Rijeka craftsmen, one of the people who are the speakers of a very large host, when we talk about Rijeka is Mr. Jakominic. It is the son of Marin of Jakominic who is one of the heroes of the Homeland War in the defense of Dubrovnik among other things. Marino Jakamineić, who was my friend, was very proud of me, here. I don't care who they vote for, believe me. [[Option Sanader: Next Replication...]] When it comes to the well-being of craftsmen, it's completely irrelevant to me. I mean, we fought for a free democratic state, but it bothers me when a spokesman talks about someone's anxiety because, excuse me, he's not paid. I can accept that from the HDZ spokesman, but let's not mustache the party and the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36528	Next replica, the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36529	Thank you. So here, as well as my colleague earlier, you encouraged me to this replica because in your discussion you mentioned the famous coffee bar Tri Monkeys, we know that the burning problems of the craftsmen of the catering activity VAT rates for all catering services as well as the consumption tax paid by the sole and exclusively the caterers. Now, especially back in the year, the catering sector is operating under epidemiological measures, which has led most to the edge of existence as well as to the edge of hysteria, so here's what they said was pressure to a billion. Do you think that the HOC represents to a sufficient extent the interests of the particularly vulnerable catering sector in order to keep their business going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36530	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36531	I think it's hard to judge, very simple. In fact, the HOC has first and foremost Czechs, then it has the part that's territorial and often happens with them, and it's hard to build certain common attitudes, and yet it depends on the middle to the middle. In my neighborhood, the Chamber of crafts, according to my assessment, works relatively well with us very well, is another thing that we must always come up with solutions to make it easier for them both for the purpose and for GDP growth, but also for the purpose of new employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36532	Thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36533	So, another late debate on the opposition bill. And this shows the relationship to the opposition, remember what they called us last Friday when they didn't have or what day it was, when they didn't have a quorum and we showed there as an opposition that we're constructive, that we're not like them, and they always put such suggestions in the late evening hours to make the public less aware of what the opposition proposes. So if this proposal of ours is so bad, why isn't it put in the morning so that everyone can see this shame of ours that we have suggested, that all of Croatia see this disgrace of ours that you have proposed? But he's not a bad caterer, and he's not a bad caterer, our craftsman, so we've also proposed for HGK they're looking for him. This is not what Mr. Troscott pulled out of his little finger, this is what Croatian craftsmen, Croatian entrepreneurs are looking for. And that's why you put this on, we're now discussing it at 11 o'clock or midnight will already be. Here's the Troscott. He couldn't even watch Dinah. So because you don't want to discuss this in some normal hours that the public, that the craftsmen see that the Bridge proposes it, and that you object. And also a good argument from counterpart Kujundzic if it is a bad legal proposal, so give it better on the same track. You have services in the ministries, you have people... you have people everywhere and in HOK and HGK in the ministries there is a thank God who writes. So let them do something, let them write a proposal on how to make HOK more efficient, how to make it more favourable for Croatian craftsmen, here, let them do something. So I especially respect our Vice-President Sanader, especially since part of this electricity that rebelled against Prime Minister Plenkovic, I hear that they already have an anti-candidate Anusic, so I especially respect him. So, the thing is very simple, give your legal proposal and we'll support it. Every Friday we vote here for your legislative proposals that you're proposing, from what I don't know, 20 laws will be on Fridays at the vote we certainly support 50%, sometimes more. We have no problem supporting something that is good, no matter what you suggest, what the ruling majority suggests, but we need to understand if in this crisis we do not remove this burden of parafiscal burden from the back of our entrepreneurs and craftsmen they will not survive this crisis. And now this fund that's coming to us, the money that's coming to us, we're going to pump it up into the public sector, who's going to take out the public sector on the back of the state if we destroy entrepreneurship, if we destroy our craftsmen? And it's not a question of ideology now, is someone more economically left or so, this is a matter of pure logic, who's going to fill the budget? Who will fill the budget, that's what I ask you and that answer asks you not Zvonimir Troscott, not the Bridge that question is actually asked by Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Here, thank you. There's no replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36534	Next final debate, the first SDP advocates' club is Honorable representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36535	The Honorable Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here's just to sum up a little bit first, we have to commend our colleague Troscott and his opening exhibition, which was really exhaustive, he also pointed out to us the problems that are present in our chamber, he pointed to our environment as it is working in the environment, and I believe that this will be one good cause for another such debate in which we will be able to make better conclusions, given that today obviously the conclusion will not be because the debate has gone a little in the wrong direction and in principle there has been no new conclusions or suggestions. I would point out once again that we as a SDP club will support your proposal to remain what I said at the beginning, that we should discuss it, that we should see how it all fit together, and if it really happens to cancel mandatory membership fees, in which period, in which way, who will take over one part of the business, whether maybe the chamber will get an additional portion of the work from the state, whether these jobs will be paid additionally, it should be seen and, of course, arranged. This should actually be all our proposal after that because if we go to change something in the institution, it would be correct for us to make these things that we are thinking about changing, to communicate with the institution, to the bodies of that institution, and then to make some conclusions that we would make to the government. You agree with me that today's debate in the first part was quite constructive, that we were trying to point out what the craftsman is doing, what should be done, and how it should have happened, in the second part, what happened, unfortunately, here are many of us who have lost the right to discuss this point more, otherwise we believe that we have a lot more for them to hear, and I hope that in some other debate we will have the opportunity to hear both from the ruling and from our smart and good suggestions that will allow our craftsmen to operate better, cheaper, to really relieve them of parafiscal accusations and that we will all conclude together whether there is something parafiscal imposing or not parafiscal force and whether something is cheaper or perhaps smarter, that we leave some legacy until we find a better and quality solution. We're in the situation we're in right now. So, what you said, Slovenia got rid of it but it wasn't overnight, it wasn't a solution in two days, it was one process that lasted, so it didn't happen, it wasn't an event that was said, op, almost, we interrupt the mandatory membership fee, but it was one process where there was some reform, where the reorganization of that chamber took place, and then they came to that, the results they currently have. Similarly, in Western countries, they all have some history of their own, and their chambers don't exist since yesterday, and they certainly haven't done business in the way they do business today, after all, we have a different business system and because of the technology, the technology that is here forces us to adapt to it all together, and that we're trying to actually follow a new trend that is present in the world, without which it can't, it's informing most of the work within our institutions and so on inside our chambers, it's informing and our craftsmen, informing their business processes, but not just the process concerning accounting, finance and these office jobs, but also the process concerning the creation of production and their core businesses. And I believe that in the next reading, if it comes to it, we will find solutions that will help our craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36536	Thank you. Honorable representative Sandra Bencic, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36537	Thank you. Here, welcome to the new day, thank God, Friday, so we can slowly finish. So, as for this proposal and the debate we had today, I would also like to underline one of the fundamental differences between the HOK and the HGK that I consider important, in the context of this debate, which is that the HOK provides a number of direct services to its members, it is simply a fact. [[We're just getting started.]] I was also a member of the HGK, later on, and I can also say in my personal experience what is a concrete difference. It would also underline that some of the services provided by the HOC and their importance for vocational education as such, as chambers, which is one of the essential items is inevitable and I don't think anyone here really wants to go in the direction of any weakness, let alone the destruction of the HOK because it would really be bad for the craft sector. I'd like to highlight some more differences between HOK and HGK. HGK’s membership fee, meaning HGK’s membership fee amounted to 161 million kn in 2019 and their total income amounted to 234 million kn, as they still have revenues under special regulations, and up to 234 million kuna. I also have to say that really when you look at the cost structure of HGK, almost a little less than 50% goes to pay. And it's actually very large amounts because their incomes are indeed above 200 million kuna. And of course we can ask the question, the efficiency of such a business, and does the HGK really need one thorough reform and did it really serve the clienteleist model of employment either served or deserved personnel there by the ruling party? On the other hand, at the HOC, the situation is different, and we have to consider it. HOK as a whole, therefore, the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia has revenues from membership fees of only 16 million kuna. 16 million kuna for HOK's entire business is not big money. Their total income is 22 million in 2019 and the share of salary expenditure in total expenditures is, therefore, some 26, 27%, therefore not significant at all, especially when we have in the water that this is not about such significant large assets as the case with HGK. So we'd say it's really a more rational and efficient business. However, the fundamental problem, the difference in membership contributions, is that we need to look at what the structure of the members of the HOK is. This structure is, therefore, the turns of which are almost 50% of your turnovers, so self-employed persons. Self-employed. Many of these people are self-employed because the government had a self-employment programme and gave certain resources to make people self-employed to get out of the stock market, these are not people who necessarily wanted to be entrepreneurs, these are people who often ended up in the system by force because they had no more opportunity to work on the labour market because their jobs failed or their companies failed, etc. So it's about the structure that's the most sensitive in the whole system and we really need to get rid of that burden. We must also bear in mind that the craft is very often the starting step in business development. So, in our crafts, we have a very large number of new ones that are just getting started, so maybe it's not good to burden them with a certain amount of... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yes, they are now, yes, but it wasn't all the time, now they are. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But I want to tell you, therefore, the structure is completely different from what we have in the structure of the HGK in terms of the financial power of the subjects that are members, and we have to consider that. For this reason, I think we should support this request, but also, that we must go into reform. the chamber in a way to see them that any part of it, [[Santer Invader: Time.]] We can finance their business from public funds, from the public budget because no one wants the chambers to fail. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36538	The next debate, on behalf of the HDZ club, ends the distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36539	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here at the end of the day, I can conclude that basically all together we will agree that the craftsmen or craftsmen of the categories of small entrepreneurs, the most sensitive category of our owners who have their own and financial, tax advisers, the staff, legal adviser representing them in relation to other institutions in which they can get all possible information and different privileges and when I said that we at the HDZ Club will not support this, this proposal amending the Law on crafts for the reason that we believe that any change relating to the business of craftsmen, whether it is their new rights or obligations, would be best to make an analysis and consult these craftsmen themselves, we think that just how many ad over 93,000 craftsmen, that one such institution is necessary, especially in the way that it works, in a way that it represents from the president, from the members, the assembly, the boards, the boards themselves, we think that we have done so much better with one principle of the H. The Chamber's contributions are now 912 kn, but the craftsmen who pay it, all of them, receive permanent support from the HOK, and they also care about the development of entrepreneurship, get as I said, free assistance from advisory services, education, performances at domestic and foreign fairs, when we talk about beginners, beginners of the first 2 years have been freed from paying for the municipal contribution, also craftsmen in the second quarter of 2020 have been free of the payment of the chamber contribution as well as the crafts who were killed in the earthquake and have been released from duty for the first quarter. All those who are members and now have some new benefits, just financially as the HOC signed a co-operation agreement that gives partners a discount on the supply of electricity, fuel, office materials, etc. and would repeat that we support further discharges from our craftsmen but while providing quality services and strengthening their market position in such a way as to speedily resolve this legislative proposal, we think it is not good, because it is precisely these craftsmen that would be significantly damaged, all the services they can now receive, if they were given at some market prices and market conditions, would be much more and more expensive precisely for our craftsmen, and we are not sure that representation done by the HOCs, the fishing vessels, the catering companies, that I do not repeat myself, the carrier and all that they have done in the previous period, as well as at local levels where different crafts are co-operated and, in relation to their local self-government units, require a reduction and a write-up, public tax, communal fees, etc., concessions, it would certainly not be possible to obtain such a good amount of pay during the night. For now, the way it works under the solidarity system, we think that for now, a better solution is to make an analysis and not consult the craftsmen themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36540	Final debate on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Plasimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36541	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna use all 25 minutes, and we're gonna explain the whole analysis, and there's no point in hanging out like this tonight so we don't have to have a good constituency party. Now, first of all, I'd like to apologize to you all as colleagues for why I'm sorry that such important debates are going on so late at night, not to the Bridge Club, we wanted to be early in the morning, but somehow it always turns out that our draft laws always go on the day after, right? And I'm particularly sorry about the reason we discussed yesterday in the normal part of the day, for example the financial budget of 2019, so 2 years have passed, we're discussing data that simply can't affect our lives today and on the other hand we leave things this important for late hours. I'm glad that the emotions were expressed, therefore, and the effective part because some family members, therefore in crafts, crafts, I'm glad that they were crafts, and I'm glad that they were present and provocative because I think that's good and with provocations, so they're justified, so we come up with better arguments and solutions for our craftsmen because at the end of the day, they're the most important. I would agree with Mr. Grumo, who said that our craftsmen and entrepreneurs are our economy's locomotives, and I personally am also in pain the fact will give very much money from the EU to go to the public sector. I am particularly saddened by the fact that I have read some reports from the Association of Employers and a lot of objective analysis where the Association of Employers already has prepared projects and they are really big companies, ready for investment projects in new digitisation, in new machines, therefore, and one reform that will really raise us and that is very important for the reasons why I haven't heard it from the ruling but these private sector investments will not be competitive with the EU, for example with one Denmark, Italy, etc., where in the private sector the state gives money from COVID and up to 70%. In a conversation with the Employers' Association, the state said it would eventually finance interest, which is quite interesting because interest is now very low on the capital market. Not to tear down institutions, so I hope that we have managed to demystify this one spin that comes from the ruling party, so don't tear down institutions, so upgrade with all these amendments that we're sure to get from the HDZ ranks and I hope for another reading, right, that the HDZ has also accepted all of our remarks and that here we will meet together on another reading because there's no point in not continuing this night's party is, when we're hanging out so well, so there's no point in not continuing. What I would actually do with this exposure, so from today on, suma sumarum is therefore, we all came to the conclusion that our women need help and that they should be protected, if that is so and 151 MPs agree on it, why don't we do it immediately and say it right away, why wait, why wait for June? If we all agree that parafiscal burdens should be lifted and the economy as such is in big trouble, why not do so, why don't we help our craftsmen and why we keep putting them on those yokes that are so hard to bear and if we all agree that we need to protect our agriculture from all these forces outside, so I don't see why you don't do it right now. Here, I hope that we will see each other very soon in the second reading, that Mr. Pavić, our colleague, will give these amendments and that we will enrich this proposal together and that here we will help our craftsmen get out of the crisis as soon as possible and as a people move forward in every sense and here in this today what we have considered, and in economic. Thank you very much. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36542	We have one replica. The esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36543	I have to conclude, but to crack this third line because I couldn't make it in time, I was in the Open, also an interesting topic, a judicial this tape about the election of the Supreme Judge. So, what I was going to say at the end, we're going to continue with these proposals no matter what the outcome, we're going to be pushing for a cut, we're going to cut off forced memberships, we're not going to cancel anything, so we're not going to cancel the HOK, but we're going to transform it, we're going to be at our craftsmen's service, and we're going to do the same thing with HGK. Here, thank you, colleague Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36544	Thank you very much, and here, we've all completed the statistics then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-25-0.u36545	Okay, so we've exhausted the debate with this, we're closing the debate, we'll vote when we get the conditions. The sitting continues this morning at 9:30, the Proposal for a Law on Official Controls and other official activities carried out in accordance with the rules on food, food for animals, animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 98. Good night. SESSILE Interrupted at 12:19 p.m.
