ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27277	The next statement of view is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27278	Thank you. Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Before I go, I have to take this opportunity just to look back and look at the presentation of colleague Gary Capelli who apparently lives in a parallel universe, so in his presentation of the club's position he talked about measures to preserve jobs, he presented absolutely untrue data. And as for my free speech today, trust me that I personally absolutely as well as my clubmates have no problem with when to commend something good or when to commend someone who does something good. We are always willing to support every good and productive proposal, conclusion or project, and I would really like to be able to stand before this speaker more often and talk about the positive and successful things that are happening in our Croatia, especially in our Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in general in the East of Croatia, but can't. I can't because we witness daily events resulting from the inert behaviour of the ruling and which are the result of bad policy which the SDP club warns about on a daily basis. It is a concern resulting from the closure of factories in Croatia, by the mass closure of factories in Croatia. One such example is the Borovo factory, once giant of which it has advanced the entire Vukovar area and from the impressive history of Borov, enough to provide data on the production of more than 20 million pairs of footwear annually, thousands of tons of car tyres and rubber-technical goods, more than 22,000 employees in factories and in today's location and more than 600 retail facilities. Borovo then grew into the most economically powerful company in the production and sale of footwear and tires in this part of Europe. Today Borovo has 500 employees, they closed the shops in Glina, Chazmi, Dardi, Zadar, Križ, Vrgorac, Beli Manastir, Orahovica, Ilocka, Županja is an extension of the list, so even business in Borov village, in Vukovar where the company's headquarters is located while in all of these cities the company has its own business space. It is already known that the state which owns 99.9% of the stock of successful companies and every little Borovo provides guarantees for new loans to the company to pay off old debts. Only last year, Borovo, with the state guarantee, is in charge of the new 79 million kunas, and the management of the company can be "gratified" that their workers do not have a minimum. You know why? Because their workers work for a salary that is approximately 8 to 20 kunas higher than the minimum wage, that salary is about 3,408 to 3,420 kuna, and the company is naturally in charge of these 79 million kunas, but that is why sometimes the great giants today run the prime minister's chosen ones, and the salary for the successful work of President of the Board of Borov is 17,900 kuna. So, this chairman of the management for these performances was rewarded by the minister's salary. What I want to stress at this point is the poor business and the government's lack of interest in the results for progress, for success, for jobs and for the creation of a positive economic climate in Croatia. In addition, the Government is not motivated through the project “Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem” to solve the problems of the east of Croatia, because the concern for the east of Croatia should be manifested primarily as a concern for the preservation of each job. It should also be noted that Borovo would probably end up as well as the sugars and like many other companies that are finally closed that it is not in Vukovar and is obviously not yet closed just because of the importance that the city has. However, it remains unacceptable to continue to maintain false concerns without plan and without responsibility and leadership and owner of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27338	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Honorable representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27339	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Do you know which city was the city with the most Croats on the globe in the early 20th century? I believe that much of you would not know the question of this answer but it is not Zagreb, it is not Split, it is not Dubrovnik, it is not Varazdin, it is not Osijek. It's the city of Subotica. Subtica had over 56,000 rebel Croats in the early 20th century. Also, Petrovadine had 98% of Croats in its population, more than the capital of Zagreb, 100 years earlier. Unfortunately, today the Croats in Vojvodina only have leads. Thanks to the large Serbian propaganda by Slobodan Milosevic, thanks to the Hague-based policy of war criminal Vojislav Seselj, there has been a human migration by the Croats of Vojvodina. 40,000 Croats are estimated to have left the province of Vojvodina since '91. '95. A year. They were threatened, fired, bombed in the yard, 26 killed. Once again, I point out, in an area where there was no war. The Croats in Vojvodina still pass through the Calvary today. It used to be back in '81. 109 000 Croats lived in Vojvodina on the census. According to the last census since 2011, only 57,000. This year is a new census in the Republic of Serbia, and this number will obviously continue to fall. But what did the Republic of Croatia, or state policy, do about it? Has anyone ever asked a question in the last 20 years and raised the question of the duchy Croats in front of international institutions? Has anyone ever asked the question of returning these same people to their centuries-old hearths? Never anyone. Unlike the diplomacy of the Republic of Serbia, which today also says that the storm is an ethnic cleansing, which today says it is a funeral of the Serb people, who today is demanding the return of the evicted Serbs, none of the official state governments of the Republic of Croatia has requested the return of Croats to Vojvodina. Many of them ended up in Croatia, unfortunately a good part of the Western European countries as well. And you know when he'll be back from the hearth? Never. Today we should mention villages such as Gibarac, Kukavaci, Nikinci, Golubinci, Hrtkovci, Ljuba, Morović, Slankamen, Petrovadine, towns, towns in the eastern region of Srijem where today the Croats are almost gone. And by the 1990s they were 30.50 and somewhere over 95% of the population. Unfortunately, Croatia's national minority Calvary continues in Vojvodina and today. Today, the congregation of Subotica made a decision to initiate the procedure for introducing the rebel tongue as an official in the territory of the city of Subotica. One made-up language to crush the Croatian national corps already like this. Croatia has sent a protest note but we must not stop at that. We must not allow that after the authorities of Serbia have allowed Croatians to write as Bunjevci and thereby split up and split up the Croatian National Corps, we must not allow another artificial language not recognised by either Croatian or Serbian linguists. Both consider it a standard Croatian language with a specific dialect. And therefore, as a full member of the EU, we must condemn these phenomena more strongly, we must stand in the protection of the Croatian national minority in Vojvodina. The Croats today do not have their representatives in the municipalities and towns of Vojvodina, guaranteed, have no commanders, have no presidents, have no state secretaries, as do representatives of the Serb national minority in the Republic of Croatia. And if we are a sovereign state, we must stand sovereignly towards protecting our national minorities in the Republic of Serbia because if this trend continues, the next census of Croats will be only a few thousand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27453	The next statement is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27454	... So I'm going to start my presentation today to ask if the local election campaign has already started? [[Specially enabled.]] Oh, yeah, sure. These days through the media, we came up with data on paid aid in agriculture, so Belje plus a recordr for paid aid in 2020. According to the Agriculture Payments Agency, the company last year withdrew a total of 108.4 million kuna from the rural development programme and the national budget. The second-placed New Agar from Žit Marko Pipunić received 38.2 million kuna, Vupik plus, one company Fort Nova, 32.6 million kuna. The top 10 includes Forte Novini PIK Vinkovci, the Medal Industry Vida from the group Pivac, Kutjevo Enver Moraća, Moslavina Energy, PP Orahovica, PPK Valpovo. Every year they break a spear about whether the system that continues to give the biggest companies is more just. Especially when it comes to direct payments. Almost a third of these payments last year amounted to nearly half of about 7 billion kunas of total paid aid received 6.5% of the largest economies. The European Commission planned to introduce a model of direct payments per economy in the EU's common agricultural policy in 2013 but this has not yet happened. In view of the fact that 20 agricultural holdings in Croatia receive on average 500 times more support than the average CAP, we ask ourselves whether this is a balanced and fair distribution of support to which representatives of our Ministry of Agriculture swear. The Minister of Agriculture has also delivered contracts these days for projects in which the total value of the investment is 77.5 million kuna, out of which support amounting to €41.2 million is granted. The highest value has a project to build and equip the meat processing plant of Ravlic d.o.o. value of support 26.9 million kuna. The following are the construction of the photovoltaic power plant and the accompanying content of the Vego center d.o.o. support 7.4 million kuna, photovoltaic power plant Zito support 2.2 million kuna, processing and direct sales of Đanić craft 1.3 million kuna. The owner of Djanic's crafts is also vice president of the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly, which was apparently awarded for its political loyalty with 1.3 million kuna. And how do our family farms go if they are not of course owned by Mr. Djanic, and they want to apply to competitions from the rural development fund? They are often rejected because they are too small or too young, some are too old, some are green. But if the blue ones are as big as the previous ones, then they're certainly already taking part in the campaign for the next local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27527	The next statement is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27528	I thank the chairman. Today I would like to say a few words again about the double standards or the two Croatians that exist today. Every day we witnessed that there were, from the very beginning of this pandemic and lockdown when we all had to be in houses, and some had fun in illegal clubs. And not just any one but representatives of all the institutions of this country by the president, ministers, judges. Us or ordinary people to call them that were punished if we went to the field alone, and they could without fear eat the rest of the food so they wouldn't throw themselves away, socialize and plan without any punishment. The last example of two Croatians is yesterday's funeral of the mayor of Zagreb. An event that is in direct contrast with all the national headquarters cracks. One Croatia can do without any pardon as it defends itself or punishes itself. What it really looks like in reality is I'm going to tell the story of a caterer who's been dividing around the nets recently, and the caterers who've been working on open terraces since recently. Here's what he says. Today, the third day since the end of such work, we have been visited by two ladies who presented themselves as employees of the National Inspectorate of the Republic of Croatia, a tourist inspection. When they saw that I was visibly upset, they asked why because they were just doing their job. I answered them that my job and my right to inform them that they were undesirable. Although two waiters worked at the time, they focused only on my wife who was properly reported. They're asking me to deliver a contract on work, application to a pension, billing list, etc., etc. They wanted me to bring it to their office, which I replied there was no way because I don't have time to walk around the offices. In the end, they suggested that I send all the documents to them by mail. I'm not even sure what a tourist has to do with those documents. These days we expect a tax and then an inspection by the Ministry of Health about the control of epidemiological measures. We've been fighting the IRS the whole time we've been locked up. First, they sent us a fine of ten thousand kunas for this because the absence of an internet connection that we didn't notice in time because we were at sea on weekends, so our accounts weren't fiscalized within 48 hours but 4 hours later. The only option to avoid punishment is to confirm the operator that there is no Internet connection that he simply won't give. We're in appeal now. At the end of the 2nd month, the IRS sent us a billing solution due to the unpaid VAT for the 9th and 10th month that came at the 11th and 12th months when someone shut us down with their own free will and denied us the right to work and earn a profit that would settle those items. We went to an administrative contract where the documents cost us close to 1,000 kuna. All this time in the office, there's been a bunch of paperwork, out of records, complaints, all kinds of confirmations of all the other nonsense. I'm under the impression that our entire business has come down to paperwork and conversation with the state. I've had enough of everything as most of them probably do. Following my move, not out of ego, but out of despair when they come into control of the epidemiological measures that we respect best in this mess, we open up trends on the closed part of the terrace, we freeze ourselves and our guests because the heaters on the minus simply aren't enough, first I'll call all the journalists I can get at that moment, even if only the local ones, and then I'll ask the lady before any action is done to the press to get me confirmation from which it's clear that there was a treatment for the organizers of this funeral. Before that, I have no intention of cooperating with them. This is a desperate move, but there were a lot of double standards and laws. Good luck, everybody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27529	With this, we've exhausted our position. The next statement of view is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative, Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27627	President, colleagues and colleagues, and many of these days have said whether or not the measures continue, whether the interrupted measures have been taken since here and the facilities have been seen and some have started working in hospitality, tourism, so I would like to remind myself that the conservation measures have been extended to March this year under the same conditions as they were for January and February. So the cost assessment is about 350 million. The measures therefore include reminding, co-financing of workers' salaries up to 4,000 kuna per worker during termination of work with the release of payment of contributions. The user circle covers all sectors which work disabled by the headquarters decision as well as all business related activities which have a fall in income of at least 40%. Therefore, employers will be compared with the revenues of March 2021 with those of March 2019. It is also important to say that all employers, therefore, can use this measure, regardless of the activity and the fall in traffic, which is very important to highlight, from the area in which the earthquake was declared. The possibility of using a part-time measure was therefore extended throughout 2021. The possibility of cutting working hours to 90% using support so up to 3.600 kuna per worker and releasing the payment of contributions to that amount. The cut-off can't be more than 70% of the annual fund of hours. Compensation measures in the form of fixed-cost compensation for all whose operations have been disabled by the Staff Decision according to the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration's assessment of the costs for January and February were also 100 and 200 million a month. In February, a special aid measure was adopted for employers who employ disabled persons and it is important to highlight this in the earthquake of affected areas. So, all of these, all of these support, aids that have so far been allocated and spent somewhere in this segment, so about 9.5 billion, if we add to that, obligations that go to pay and we come all this way to 13 billion. Now I'm going to compare the two global crises of that economic and this pandemic. In both times there were conservation measures, there were therefore jobs but it is used in completely different ways. In the SDP's 2014 mandate, 2011-2015, during the global economic crisis, there was a tool, i.e. measures to preserve jobs, however, what is a sad fact is that only 4,601 workers have been consumed throughout the SDP mandate. It was this poor crisis management strategy, or inadequacy, that led to a flood of unemployment in February 2014, almost 400,000 unemployed, namely 384.376. On the other hand, during the government's term of office, measures to preserve jobs have been consumed nearly 700,000 times despite the global crisis of the Covid pandemic, we today have about 160,000 unemployed. Therefore, due to timely and adequate measures to combat the consequences of Covid and the strategic crisis-led processes, this government has shown how this is done. How to stand behind Croatian workers, employers and how to maintain the health of citizens and jobs in parallel, but most importantly liquidity, in general, the economy. In the past four years, the government of the Republic of Croatia has increased its minimum wage by 904 kuna net by the end of each year, suggesting an average salary growth of around 1,100 kuna. Following the covid epidemic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken timely concrete measures to help entrepreneurs and workers. Just the day after the devastating earthquake in Zagreb, we started implementing measures to preserve jobs. In the Primorje-Gorski County of Examples, we have so far paid 660 million kuna for 50,000 workers, 10,000 employers. In the Gorski Kotar, most important to emphasize, we supported nearly 7,000 workers, 1,400 employers behind this paid 25,5 million kuna. So, the government had to stand behind every Croatian worker and employer, and that's how we saved thousands and thousands of jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27695	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27696	Your Honor. Croatia has provided significant funds from EU funds in the financial perspective of 2021-2027. which is also added to the grants from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, which is currently available to us with 24 billion euros or around 170 billion kuna. Unfortunately, according to the draft National Recovery Plan and Resistance, our entrepreneurs have nothing to look forward to. The big problem is that in two months, the deadline for handing over documents and what is not clear is how the investments will be allocated. So what would be too much needed to recover our Croatian economy is that at least 50% of these funds are being explored means somewhere around 12 billion euros is being allocated to the private sector or companies. What will be the consequences of numerous economic schools and thinkers, or entrepreneurs on the other hand, if these funds are allocated exclusively to a state apparatus? Under number one, we will continue to have a financial crisis that could be longer than in 2008. and on the other hand, we will lose a lot of competition, especially if we compare ourselves with one Denmark, Italy and even one Slovenia, which have spent a lot of money from the EU precisely on projects that include the purchase of new machines, digitisation, a number of subsidies that not only involve interest financing but includes even up to 70% investment subsidies, which automatically makes them very competitive compared to the rest of the EU itself. So it's about the IT industry, it's about the processes of digitisation itself, for example, subsidies from machines, machines, etc. and these are very highly paid jobs which, for some reason, the Government refuses to finance or invest with these funds that we would get from the EU. Unfortunately, the official data that has been calculated is that we are 26% below the EU average, which means that we are not productive in the production of goods and services and the only way, I stress the only way to raise this is to invest in corporations or private sector companies and help our entrepreneurs, especially after we have failed, for example, to lift parafiscal burdens such as membership of HGK. What is a big question, or finding, is that there is no EU provision that actually says that grants cannot go to the private sector and there is no EU provision that says how much money should be redirected to the private sector. So what should be pointed out here is that our entrepreneurs need this money to help them and to be as competitive as possible with the EU. And to the very nation of messages, so I know everyone's worried because there is no Mr. Mira Bulja, so Miro Bulj is fine he's got a fine he can't speak, but he's coming back right after the end of the sentence this week and next week he's performing with all of us here at HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27783	The next statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27784	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear pensioners and pensioners. So, my work and political experience is only worth to me and that it wouldn't be worth only to me I'm willing to give it to you for free, and it's about my experience regarding the thesis of the political action of the pensioners. I have to say the most common thesis, the most common opinions amongst the pensioners and give my opinion. First of all, pensioners must be a political factor, and how many if they all voted together could have one-third of the MPs in HS. This can be mathematically correct, however, you should know that there are 15 categories of pensioners and 3 subcategories, that there are old pensioners until '99.pa new and also the latest two-stage pensioners, that there are 13 or 14 political parties, that there are hundreds of pensioners' associations So every village has its own larger village has its own association, so you tell me which one is the wizard who will put it all together, who will articulate the common interest and who will underline the common denominator? It's nice to want it, but almost impossible mission. The next issue is that pensioners must always be with the government. My people, this privilege in HS, I'm talking about this government only have national minorities and SDSS, so they have guaranteed mandates. Retired people must fight in general elections for their mandates in HS and must be given either on their own or in a coalition of their mandates in order to act politically here in HS. There's a pacifist thesis that says, pensioners shouldn't be involved in politics, they've done their job and they should all respect them. This respecting thing absolutely agrees, yes, everyone should respect them, their grayness and their years, but we are not Germany, which has raised their pensioners with the lowest pensions the most that they can be consumers, that they can pay for apartment, electricity, water and food because they respect their pensioners that the state, as a social state, is obliged to provide them with enough money for minimum existence and that they must remain consumers for the rest of their lives and close the circle of production. It's not even too much love but the rationality of a country not to create poverty and very clever and very cleverly that's what Germany does. Nevertheless, gray panthers in regional parliaments are active in Germany. Therefore, regardless of having such access to pensioners, they are also involved in politics. There is a thesis that says that pensioners should be active in associations, and the state and local self-government units should financially assist the activities of associations, entertainment, dance, culture, travel, health checks, various educations. Yes, I agree with the need for local self-government units to do this, but unfortunately lately everything has turned into Christmases, resurrections and one-time cash aid before the election. So, it's become a function I'm paying you, I'm paying your vote, I'm giving you money to vote, to vote for me. Unfortunately, this is so prostituted even though the initials were good intentions both for Christmas and for Easter because, because I think that these are civilization achievements and that the pensioners have to spend our Christian holidays with dignity so that they don't, that they don't feel poor. And yet another thesis, the pensioners must be guaranteed their rights by the Constitution. The constitution and constitutional law define the rights of national minorities, pensioners are national majority have more than statistics say, there are more than a million and 300 thousand pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27804	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.57 HOURS]] The first statement of view is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent IDS Representatives, the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika. He's specially decorated today, so I'm taking the opportunity and I'm congratulating Mining Day and the Labin Republic, and we see a beautiful uniform and a mining general if I'm not mistaken. Here you go, Tulio.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27805	I thank the chairman, he won't fall. ‘The second sear of a billion nine and twenty years of the first year the vines of the roofs of the Labin Republic’. March 2, 2021 The 100th anniversary of the Labin Republic. Dear Chairman and fellow Members of Parliament, today I proudly wear this solemn mining uniform as one of the last generation, the last shift of the Labin miners. The Ministry of Mining of the Republic of Poland awarded us this mining uniform with the highest rank of generals in the mining hierarchy in honor of all miners and with the aim of preserving the restoration and valorisation of mining industrial heritage. We honor the miners, the labour heroes and the morals that have left an indelible mark on the construction of Labina, but also on all the systems that have ruled Istria over the past 3 centuries and drew its wealth. I continue with the appropriate poetry of the famous Labin poet Daniel Radinovic on the Labinion chakavica, a speech protected as an immaterial cultural good. ‘Dingele-dangele, clingele clone! Samo and there, coo-carbon. Listen, your carts are ringing! And look at the water, and look often. And "runners are devils" are numbered in the room. I'd say they're the last ones; they're the fairs on the shingles and they're on the wires... (No sweat who's going to have their own rivals up to Brsica.) One and the other, the third and the fourth, the clouds of your paws are full of carbon, how to hold hands together... Look, there's another one flying through the sky! Laugh at the sun. It's a nice don. Dingele-Dangele. Cova. Carbon." We were in Labin on Tuesday in the city from which I came to celebrate the grand jubilee of 100 years. Lab republics and miners' day. The Labin Republic was a self-government republic established during the Labinština Rebellion and lasted from 2 March to 8 April 1921. The miners took over the mines and under the password “Kova is ours” – the mine is ours, so-called “Kova is ours”. ‘Labin Republic’. They also organized the so-called so-called. "Red Guard" as protection from fascists. Although it lasted only 37 days, the Labin Republic has left an indelible mark in history because this uprising of Istrian miners is considered the world's first anti-fascist uprising. Istrian miners, covari, sought to improve labour rights, positions and improve working and living conditions by their union struggle. This has a strong symbolism because the aim of their rebellion was to end the exploitation of both slave and non-human relations, and that is why the Labin Republic is a historical example of working solidarity. In the mine they were all equal, black from coal, no one thought of nationality, and only so, under the cover of darkness in the womb of the earth could they watch each other's backs. It's a real camera. And today Laba is a world example of co-existence, the Labin Republic is worth it. A value that is deeply embedded in every man who cultivates multiculturalism, multiethnicity and antifascism. The Labin Republic is every person who respects his past and proudly builds on it his future. The Labin Republic lives today and will live in Istria. The genes of our miners who are passed down from generation to generation teach us that we must persist in the fight for our values and that we must never withdraw before the primitives and the violent. That's why our region is synonym for prosperity and co-existence. And finally, once again, I give my sincere congratulations on the Day of the Labin Republic and the Mining Day to all miners and to all those who were in any way part of the mining maze. Thank you all and 100 times, mining, good luck. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27806	Thank you, congratulations again. The next statement of view is Commissioner Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u27819	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this week, the former President of the Republic of France Nicolas Sarkozy was convicted of abuse of office and unfair influence on the judiciary. Why does one France consider it necessary for its judiciary to be independent? The answer is very simple. The functional judiciary and rule of law in one country are a guarantee of the equality of all citizens under the law. The opposite of equality is the social privilege and non-functional justice in our blood of the elected Croatia. In our country there are selected laws that are not applicable, and the result of this situation is the fact that in 1946 almost the same number of citizens in Croatia as today. Demographs claim 3 million and 800 thousand, while e.g. Germany, East and West, in 1950, had a total population of 68 million, and today there are 83 million. Now some will wonder what the judiciary has to do with the number of residents in one country. The judiciary in one country has to do with all segments of society because it regulates relations in society. In the state of government, rights are able to advance, and the lazy ones are turning back. In a country where law does not rule, similar and convenient advances, and worthy and honest ones go backwards. A month ago, we learned that former Mayor Željko Kerum had gathered the entire Split judicial summit in his tavern, so at the time of the lockdown, when such gatherings were banned, and Kerum is otherwise a client, or the subject of that judiciary, so at a time when any association is not allowed, the judiciary shows Croatian citizens teeth and tells us what you can, the laws do not apply to us. The Supreme Court said it was not problematic for them at all, and the Justice Department said, if the Supreme Court does nothing, that the ministry will do something about it, it's been a month, and the Justice Department has done nothing. And what had to happen? All those participants of that illegal party had to be fired and kicked out of the justice system. The same way these pseudo-large analysts, deep-state social players also apply in the case of JANAF. That strategy is called oblivion. It's been six months since the Janaf affair, and this affair is a multi-layer scandal. From the fact that the Chief of Staff of the Croatian Armed Forces went to unobstructed places during the lockdown until the ministers in that government who forbade Croatian citizens from going to a nearby cafe went to places where no bill was issued, but they counted money and ate and drank free of charge, or at their expense. Has anyone ever been politically responsible since? It's not. Does anyone mention that affair? He doesn't mention it, because it's the state of Croatian society. The judiciary serves powerful people, not citizens, and the media that politicians corrupt with taxpayers' money protects the same politicians and the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, the injustice in the Croatian state takes on grotesque and painful proportions, and the consequences are borne by citizens. There are so-called. I'm an apostrophe of one of them, which is the B2 Capital to which banks transfer their claims to their clients, as a rule to citizens who find themselves in financial problems. These agencies assume these debts for a symbolic amount of 15% to 20% and then charge multiple amounts of these citizens by mob violence methods. In Germany, 25 years ago, there were indications of such events as we see in Croatia today, however, the German Bundestag immediately amended the law on mandatory relations and protected its citizens from interest and illegal agencies. The legislation is now valid throughout the EU, therefore, in Croatia. I am personally in possession of a case in which a court in Sibenik does not require the Agency's identity at all. It does not determine the facts at all, and it is totally against the constitutional, illegal and against European standards, to the benefit of the interest agency, and to the detriment of the family with four children, a father who was a Croatian defender. And the court does all this against the Constitution and against Croatian and European laws. I have been informed by the Ministry of Justice of all this lawlessness and violation of the fundamental human rights of Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, their reaction is indifference and escape from responsibility but not for long. All these Croatian powers must know one thing, a time of lawlessness, impudence and manipulation go into the past, Croats will fight for their rights to equality and to the rule of law and will no longer be citizens of second order in the EU. Only a regulated state can provide such social and social justice. And therefore, the rule of law has no alternative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37359	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Today according to plan first point: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, first reading, P.Z. No. 71 The Proposer is the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate and on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which apply to the first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the bill, with us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Tugomir Majdak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37360	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of HS, the distinguished ladies of Parliament's attorneys and gentlemen of Parliament. The Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals entered into force on 1 January 2019. and was published in the National Journal 115/18. The law regulates the breeding of domestic animals, the recognition of breeding societies and organisations, the approval of breeding programmes, the competence for the implementation of the breeding programme, the specific technical activities related to the management of the breeding programme, the extension of the geographical area of implementation of the breeding programme, the management of genetic resources of domestic animals, the acquisition of the status of domestic animals, the recognition of the new breed of domestic animals, the conservation of the original breeds of domestic animals, the breeding and reproduction of domestic animals, zoo technical certificates, the implementation of artificial senses and training of breeders for the implementation of artificial senses, the keeping of necessary records and the registration of production and transport of replacement products, the breeding of bees, the catastre of bees and the use of bee pasture, the use of poultry, the collection of data on the breeding of horses, the breeding value of horses, the competent authority and control and other issues related to domestic animals. The law stipulates that gray bees, which is our original breed, are grown in the Republic of Croatia, but there is no possibility that the conditions for the breeding of grey bees on fertilising cells should be further governed by the regulation. Where reference is made to the conditions for fertilisation cells, professional and technical conditions in line with the biological and ecological needs for ensuring the breeding and mating of bee queens and would be defined by the implementing act. The provision of the law states that the registry of queen growers is run by the Ministry of Agriculture, while in the previous period before the entry into force of this law it was prescribed that the recognised breeding society runs a register of queen breeders. Since the law stipulates that the conditions of entry in the register are laid down by a recognised breed society which checks it on the ground, that it lays down the rights and obligations of breeders participating in their breeding programmes in accordance with these legal amendments, it is proposed that the registry of queen growers also lead the recognised breeding society. The provisions of the law laying down rules for the management of the bee cadastre are deleted because of the difficult application in practice. The operational management of pasture-related operations is not prescribed in the applicable law and these legal amendments shall be provided by a legal person for the conduct of pasture-related operations. The business of the pasturage order Croatian beekeepers' alliance for the needs of the Ministry of Agriculture has been conducted operationally on the ground since 2008, with 125 beekeepers participating as pastel commissioners in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. The paste commissioners for this activity are appointed by the Croatian beekeeper's Union, and at the proposal of the local association or association of beekeepers on whose ground and perform the work of maintaining the pasture order. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals are regulated in a way that has been operationally implemented and implemented in the last 12 years. The Ministry of Agriculture and the State Inspectorate shall oversee the implementation of those tasks. The main objectives of amending and supplementing the Law are to provide a legal basis for defining the conditions and cultivation of the protection of the original bee, to enable a recognised breed society to keep registers of queen growers and to regulate the operational implementation of pasture operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37361	Let's go with the replicas, first of all, dear colleague Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37362	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Mr. Secretary of State. As you said yourself, this is about technical amendments to the law, but which aim to actually further protect our indigenous breed of bees, which is a grey bee that is known for its excellent characteristics and for the production of honey. Of course, we know that bees are the most important pollinators and that without them there would be no food chain or food production. In this sense, it is logical that the Ministry of Agriculture through the national programme encourages the development of beekeeping where more than 42 million kunas are secured in three years. Also today in the published data that last year seven billion kunas have been paid to farmers for support. What I'm interested in is, do you have any indication of how much support you have for the beekeeping program, but also in other segments, do you have any positive shifts?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37363	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37364	Thank you for asking the most esteemed representative, Petyr. Here is the National Programme in beekeeping which provides for the period 2020-2022. A total of around 45 million kunas, but also supporting Croatian beekeepers in the form of co-financing of greenhouses, national greenhouses are measures that the Ministry of Agriculture, in addition to some intervention measures implemented in the case of bees in Međimurje, all contributes in many ways so that the beekeeping fund is multiplied. And we're recording data or figures in favour of increasing beekeeping communities over the last three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37365	Now it's time for my esteemed colleague, Dark Tarritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37366	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So this amendment and the addition of the law are related to the subject of beekeeping, but there is another topic of beekeeping that is extremely important, which these amendments to the law do not apply, even though I have not seen that anything is envisaged, that is so-called. urban beekeeping. It is beekeeping that takes place in cities, these are hives set up by some parliaments have really placed hives, in parliament there are even more produced and honey then when some guests come it is the honey that is produced there is close to a certain green area and the rest. So no city in our city can define at this time with its decision urban beekeeping because it is not defined by law. And every time someone comes up with the idea of a city setting it up, they're going to reject it because it's not in the law, based on the law in that defined. Have you thought about it? Are you going to think about what you're going to do? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37367	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37368	Thank you. Here, thanks to the esteemed advocate Mrak-Taritash, we are familiar with the practice so in urban areas about urban beekeeping, so from our bill, it means amending and supplementing the law, every breeding society is obliged to lead for all types of domestic animals the register of breeders for that kind and breed that is carried out by the breeding program. So, everyone can contact the Ministry of Agriculture about the breeding program, and so can all those in urban areas. The basis for the approval of the breeding programme is to make it different in the work than the one already recognised and thus to recognise this breeding association.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37369	Now it's time for a respected colleague of the Vukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37370	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, dear secretary of state, because of the alarming trend of imports of honey from third countries, which has a direct impact on our honey producers, so on Croatian beekeepers, can you tell us all the measures the Ministry of Agriculture is taking to ensure that this control of honey is adequately carried out and that our citizens know what kind of honey they have offered on the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37371	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37372	Thank you for asking, esteemed MP Vukovac. In 2019, therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture amended the Honey Regulation relating to the labelling of honey or the country of origin from which honey originates. The EU-level regulation has prescribed that it can be indicated that honey is a mixture of honey originating in the EU, while the Ministry of Agriculture has also stated that countries have also been originated. As part of the "From Fields to Table" strategy, the Ministry of Agriculture also proposed at AGRIFISH level, i.e. the Council of Ministers of Agriculture and Fisheries to introduce this practice at EU level, which is also positive by European ministers, and this practice will be introduced at EU level. a... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37373	Please just be careful for a minute. Now it's my dear colleague Matula's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37374	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, here in the report at the end of how many people were involved in the debate, there's one thing I've already talked about, and I'm going to keep talking about it. Namely, there was just a certain lady. Sayonara Mršić, in that period, I am interested in other than the Croatian beekeepers' Association of selected queens of the bee of Croatia, the State Inspectorate, who were involved as stakeholders in the process of making this law, now later on beekeepers and beekeepers appear... From Varazdin and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder, is there a procedure that sends the report in advance before these bill proposals appear on the e-consultation? Can that thing do that to them a few days before that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37375	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37376	Thank you, esteemed representative Matula. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture as part of its meaning of inter-resorship but also broad cooperation on stakeholders related to all legislative and sub-legal proposals, establishes and maintains commissions on certain legislative proposals and amending them. Therefore, the amendment and addition of the Animal Breeding Act also included a Croatian agricultural chamber representing farmers and therefore beekeeping associations, breeding organisations related to the amendment of this law and before e-consultation we conduct a public debate at that level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37377	And the last replica, dear colleague Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37378	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I've come from Međimurje, you've already mentioned this bee killing, so more than 1100 hives were killed, and the initial calculations were that the damage was more than 3 million kuna, and I saw that it was planned from the state budget somewhere around a million kuna. Do you think that's enough? That's the first thing. Secondly, it has been said that it is not the cause of the disease but the human factor or the use of illicit agents in much larger quantities, therefore insecticides, but is allowed. What's been done about it? Where's the State Inspectorate? Has it been detected who are responsible and whether preventive measures have been taken that this is no longer happening because, as far as I know, the atoms had to even isolate their parcels in view of these excessive amounts of insecticides? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37379	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37380	Thank you, esteemed representative Maric. So, after detailed analysis and the reconnaissance of the department, it was found that the murder in Međimurje was not due to the disease, but as you said, it is likely to be in the presence of an unauthorized asset. A programme has been developed to assist Međimurje beekeepers in the amount of millions of kunas, which would provide support of 860 kunas related to this segment per hive. As I said, the supervisory authorities, in this regard, I mean, first of all, the State Inspectorate, they do regular reconnaissances and, in this case, send reports to the Resoring Ministry, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37381	Thank you, Secretary of State. No more replicas, so you can take your place and I'm calling the committee's rapporteurs to take your word? Yeah. We will be contacted by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, the honourable representative Marijana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37382	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, representative and representative. The Committee discussed this draft law at its 7th session held on 9 December 2020. You can find a full report on HS pages, I'll just let you know about the most important highlights. Due to the proposed suspension of the cadastres, an inquiry has been put in place on the monitoring of the honey plant situation and possible problems in the simultaneous slaughter of cattle and the release of bees, along with the issuing of a solution by agricultural inspectors in the inspection procedure, it has been warned that no appeal is allowed. The State Inspectorate's position on the subject was also requested. Due to the trend in imports of honey, a honey quality control inquiry has been put in place, information on the support paid to beekeepers and Croatian honey jars has been requested. It was asked about the responsibility for bee killing in Međimurje and information was requested about the experiences of other Member States of the Union in the management of the pasture. The applicant replied that she does not expect implementation problems because the registry contains the same data as the cadastre. Representatives of the State Inspectorate were members of the Committee for the Construction of this Bill. The new national beekeeping programme is worth more than 42 million kuna. In order to ensure quality of honey, the Ministry has approached the amendment of the rules, and at European level it advocates more precise bear marking. The national honey jar used by 960 beekeepers, additional mechanisms during 2021 will increase this number. It is likely that the cause of the bee’s flood in Međimurje is an illicit means and a 1 million kuna programme will make up for lost profits. To the extent of 5.2.1, it is planned to finance the renewal of the bee fund, and the practices of other Member States show that breeding associations are performing the tasks to be carried out by the Croatian beekeeping alliance. Following the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the HS the following conclusions: the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals is adopted; the observations and proposals made in the debate are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law on the amendments and addition of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37383	Thank you, too. That's all from the board, so I'm opening a debate. The first in line is a re-respected colleague, Petir, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37384	Thank you, Mr. President of HS, State Secretary with an associate, representative and representative. In the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, the central place is occupied by breeding associations and organisations, as well as the delegation of administrative functions to breed societies that will conduct selection and safeguard genetics, develop programmes for the original breeds. The basis for the national legal framework for beekeeping is also laid, which will provide for the protection of bees as an indivisible part of biodiversity, but also ensure the preservation of the only Croatian original breed of bees in the area of the Republic of Croatia, the grey bee. We could say that there is some way to correct injustice because the keeping of registers of recognised breeders of domestic animals from all areas of livestock production is already in place by keeping registers covering cattle, sheep, pigs, goats, goats and poultry, and these changes will be regulated, regulated and subject to the issue of breeding of bees. In Croatia there is a long tradition of beekeeping, bees are important for the survival of plant species and food production, and the production of honey precedes activities organised by beekeepers to establish order, not only in the use of bee pastures, but also with the aim of protecting people, cattle and property. In Croatia there are 128 pastel commissioners and they carry out the work of the beeroot movement organisation in their area by collecting data for the establishment and keeping records of beekeepers and bee communities, which is the Republic of Croatia and the obligation arising from our membership in the EU. These amendments to the laws will make it more clear that data collection authorities have already been carrying out in practice for the pasture commissioners since 2008 and that has so far been regulated by a sublegal act. In the Republic of Croatia, since 1998, the conditions for the accommodation of bees are in force, the way bees are moved and the conditions relating to the protection, holding and exploitation of bees, as well as the conditions for the accommodation of bees communities on private property which have to meet conditions which will not endanger the bees of other bees, the safety of humans and animals, nor affect the restriction of public and private areas. It is important to mention how this law regulates breeding animals and traffic of reproductive material by recognised breed societies, and therefore this law clearly regulates the obligations and responsibilities of breed societies established, including activities already carried out. In other words, powers shall be delegated to breed societies which have demonstrated their ability to select, maintain genetics, implement and develop breeding programmes and which have sufficient organisational, professional and material resources to carry out this work. In other EU Member States, for example Slovenia, Austria, Italy, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, these jobs are performed by recognised breeding associations, beekeeping alliances, and Croatian beekeeping alliances are not given more power to amend this law than is practice in other EU Member States. We know that beekeepers are particularly fond of bees because of their calmness compared to other species and their special natural qualities. In the beekeeping world, it is an esteemed species because it has a genetically enhanced resistance to certain bee diseases, but also to intruders, it quickly develops the community, has high honey yields and is one of the most wanted species of honey bee in the world. Because of our good biological and productive properties, we consider it the most suitable breed of bees, a modern way of beekeeping. In grey bees, high yield of honey is recorded, the results of certain studies suggest that the average value of the nectar introduced after 3 years of selection work is mostly doubled. However, honey on our market is not always the product of a grey bee but is sometimes the result of fraud which is witnessed by both analyses and controls that show exactly what the European Commission's research has shown that 1/3 of honey on the market is counterfeit and quality does not match the declarations. The honey declarations we buy in the shops are insufficient and cannot be read about whether honey is produced in the Republic of Croatia, in the EU, in another Member State or in a third country. But even more devastating is the fact that some mixture of honey has been added to a variety of honey substitutes that the average consumer has no knowledge of, and buys them in the belief that he buys real honey. Such practices of manipulation and fraud should be stopped and the availability of all information on the origin and quality of the product made available to consumers. The resistance to amend the Honey Directive at European level does not mean that the Republic of Croatia cannot support Croatian beekeepers and strengthen activities related to the control of the origin, quality and health of honey and targeted programmes to work on the protection of bees and strengthen the role of Croatian beekeepers. It is therefore important to intensify quality and health control of honey that is placed on our market. We believe it is necessary to establish a reference laboratory to control the quality of honey in the Republic of Croatia that would allow Croatian beekeepers to place honey on the Union's internal market, as well as exports to third countries to reduce costs and ensure faster availability of the results of the honey analysis. The implementation of the project "Croatian honey jar" is also under way, which aims to encourage voluntary labelling of honey produced in the Republic of Croatia. The "national honey jar" brings together 960 beekeepers, and as this project requires and certain financial resources that beekeepers themselves must single, we encourage the Ministry of Agriculture to approach the development of additional mechanisms to increase the number of beekeepers involved in the project "Croatian honey jars". With a total of 18.2 million hives and 612,000 beekeepers, the EU's self-sufficiency in honey production is about 60%. Out of the number of hives mentioned, Croatian beekeepers take 12th place in the Union, and by the number of beekeepers we are in 19th place. All this speaks of the need to strengthen and support beekeeping production in the Republic of Croatia. We know that nature has given us the opportunity and opportunity, and it is up to us to use it wisely to plan at the same time production, environmental protection, social and social dimensions and bees care. The role of the bee and their contribution to the conservation of ecological balance and biodiversity could still be said to be insufficiently identified, even if it is underrated and to work on its empowerment. The danger of reducing the number of bees poses a threat to the continuation of agricultural production that we know and the maintenance of plant species that surround us, and then indirectly affects the availability of food. Therefore, people who have devoted their lives to caring for bees and honey production need to be relieved of their business in order to continue to do a responsible and useful job, but also to attract new beekeepers. If the bee disappears from the planet Earth, man as a species remains for about four years. Life, said by modern-day great scientist Albert Einstein. No bees, no pollination, no fruit, no food, no people. On earth, only about 10% of flower plants question the wind, while 90% question insects. The majority of these insects are just bees. That is why we need to take better care of them, and that is what we are doing with this law, and for this reason, the HDZ Representatives Club will support its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37385	Thank you, too. We will now have another debate, and it is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37386	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Just three years ago. One of our HDZ colleagues decided to drink tea at HS in the cafeteria, there was no crown yet, so the canteen worked whether and then he was quite shocked to see that this little honey, which I also took in the canteen of HS, a large Croatian producer, wrote on it a declaration that honey is a mixture of honey from the EU, and that it is partly outside the EU, read China. And this honey is sold under Croatian product. So, honey from the EU and honey outside the EU, I will repeat reading China, which is sold as a Croatian product. But this is the beginning of the story. That's the honey. I'll give it to you respected secretary of state, I donate something here every day, last time you get sugar, now you'll get it, now you'll get honey, so you can combine some. So, this honey here that I took today, unlike honey that's a colleague specifically cellic, here's not today in HS, no more declaration. I don't know how he can be put on the market. So on this bear, on this product that I hold in my hand, there's no more declaration. Here I looked at him well, and I increased with my cell phone, and I tried to see if there was any hidden composition of him, the manufacturer, anything, no. So here we are today in 2021. month March we have products on the Croatian market, specifically here in HS, in the centre of the Croatian state in Zagreb we have a product that has no declaration, and it is about honey. Could this honey be just honey out of the EU now? And I will express my suspicion that it's a honey that's not Croatian honey, it's not Croatian honey at all, but who knows whose, who knows who made it, who knows if it's honey at all, the question is whether it's honey at all. Take a look at the Internet and you'll see how these can be, how honey can be paved, or actually fake honey, deep doubt. Here you are, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You can tell him that, and you know why I think that's why you can tell him and I can't. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Break President: Tell him more honey and sugar.]] So, the esteemed president of HS, the funny president of HS Well, no, I said, I told you, I answered, you understood everything and the Croatian public understood. [[And I was joking a little bit, don't be mad.]] So... I don't know what you're trying to say. [[I didn't understand, I don't know what you wanted...]] So when we talk about this law, here, I have also received a few remarks from people dealing with beekeeping, beekeeping in Croatia and they warn of some of the provisions of this bill. The problem here is a recognised breeding society. So the first thing that's mentioned in the one and then it's probably supposed to be a recognised breeding society is just one thing and it's probably a Croatian beekeeper's alliance, right? ... And this Croatian beekeeping alliance, according to what Marija Vukkovic signed just two months ago, made one HPS, I will call it by mistake, related to subsidies, and even returned 2 million and 42 thousand kuna to the Croatian budget, and then beekeepers wonder for a reason how this recognised association can be exclusively this association, which was investigated by the County State's Attorney's Office. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, I'm setting up the same thing on behalf of all the beekeepers who are interested in this, how. On the other hand, whether only this association will get a license or another association will also get a license to produce, distribute queens or it will be just this one which, I must say, is compromised, this may be completely clean, but here it is, Minister Vukkovic has signed the document and says, a procedure has been launched to repay certain funds where the HPS has made a return to the debt agency, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, two million and 42 thousand kuna and something else small. So this is something that's a big problem. On the other hand, we Croatian sovereigns as much as we are for the state to control the system, so much so we want one freedom, that every man, every farmer, in this case the beekeeper can at some point decide who and what way he will sell and how he will grow. Because look, we are now about bees, or we are about to introduce one rigorous control, and on the other hand, we will control every queen, every bee, every hive, who produces and in what way, and on the other hand we will allow imports of honey that is not honey and we will place it on the Croatian market. We'll place it without a declaration, and what the Croatian beekeeper produces is that we'll keep a strict record that some queen didn't accidentally exit in a way that wasn't recorded in the HPS that was compromised. I am for Croatian beekeepers to have the freedom to produce and, if they have already registered through, for example, O.P.G. or some other way, to end the story here. If the state has allowed the Croatian farmer to open the OPG or work through the crafts or otherwise, so let's let the people work. So we let Croatian producers produce, we don't give them extra control because these additional controls are exclusively, I stress, helping whom? These big manufacturers, and they're not actually producers, but only distributors of strange mixtures that come from outside and not even from the EU, but who knows where in the world. So, I think I've been clear enough, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I hope that you will, here, warn the competent institutions about the problem of this particular honey that I gave you and that you will bear in mind that your job is to protect Croatian production from imports, especially illegal imports and Croatian producers from products that do not have a declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37387	Let's move on. Now it's HSLS and reformers' club, dear colleague Darko Klasic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37388	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected State Secretary and Associates. Croatia has natural resources, which is the basis for the development of beekeeping, which suggests a huge potential for further development here in economic activity. The EU is not self-sufficient and meets only 64% of the need for the EU's honey market, so that the quality, design and support of the country in the beekeeping sector can achieve a significant step and create our significant potential from this natural branch, unfortunately we have not yet been able to realise it, but I hope that we are on the right track to do so. Due to poor climate conditions and unfortunately due to extremely low yields in 2020, Croatian beekeepers for bad memories last year have not been well, but it is true that this year has been an increased sale of domestic honey because Croatian citizens have been looking for a reason to strengthen their immunity, and much of the Croatian beekeepers have managed to place their products in these unfavourable economic conditions. Here and the lack of honey used in the market for imports of non-quality honey, as we heard from Ukraine, Poland and Hungary, which is actually intended for use in cooking and industry at low prices, but therefore is inadequate and low quality, which is unfortunately why some importers use Croatian honey notes to declare this product as Croatian. We understand that because of market freedoms there is no ban on import honey coming to our shelves, as there is no ban on our exports, and there is an increasing demand for quality honey from Croatia in EU countries. Accordingly, we too must accept branding from imports, but we must be able to appreciate the quality of what has been produced in our fields and beekeepers. Therefore, it might be good to introduce a regulation so that the country of origin, as well as the composition of the honey jar, should be written on bigger letters, and the Ministry of Agriculture, with the help of various associations and HGK intermediaries, should make additional efforts in the education of consumers to buy domestic honey. What I was particularly surprised and what I would welcome is the initiative of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, which introduced an application that can easily and unequivocally determine the origin of honey located on shelves in the store and has a mark of Med hrvatski bees. By simply typing the serial number of the label marked with a jar in the application you can verify the origin data i.e. the basic data on the manufacturer and the name of the OPG and the address and that works for you, as well as the data on the type of honey, the date of spinning and the place where it is produced. In my opinion, this is the best guideline for our customers, but also for the protection of domestic honey producers, which I welcome anyway. Amendments to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals shall be provided as a legal basis for the definition of breeding and protection of the original grey bee through which the protection and conservation of genetics in the field of the Republic of Croatia will be carried out. As we heard today, the grey bee is actually very important in our beekeeping and it is highly appreciated in European contexts. These changes and additions to the laws will allow Croatia's breeders of selected queens to keep registers of breeders or breeding programs to protect the breeding and genetics of all bees... pollination of more than 80% of flowers and more than 70% of crops in Croatia. The Croatian beekeepers prefer the grey bee because of its calmness compared to other species and its exceptional production properties. The grey bee allows the exploitation of early spring honey pastures and high honey yields and is today one of the most wanted honeybees around the world, and not just with us. For the past few decades, it has been carefully selected to make less swarming and make it even more suitable for working and accommodation in urban areas where many rules are forbidden, here in the City of Zagreb. Association of queen growers covers all of Croatia and in order to obtain the highest quality nuts that will form new resistant bees of the community it is desirable that each breeder has at least 100 hives because it can in one hand guarantee that bees are not related and thus we actually protect genetic material. But no matter how much the beekeepers care to keep the grey bee within our borders for the protection of genetic material, where he is concerned, we will have to embrace some other breeds of bees by entering the Schengen. For now, we are privileged because there are no grey bees in our area, which our Slovenian neighbours are meeting with. In the border areas with Italy, specifically in the Sochi Valley and they no longer have a clean gray bee, there has been mixing with some species from Italy. It is therefore very important that we do not receive a cross of grey bees, making it difficult to select and raise queens naturally. Crosses are unpredictable, and that would mean that we would have to move on to artificial insemination of queens instead of controlled mating. This law defines the conditions of breeding and protection of the original grey bee through which the genetics of grey bee in the Republic of Croatia will be maintained as well as the legal basis for the implementation of the operational part of pasture honey business is provided. The HSLS and Reformers Club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37389	We are now going to the House Movement Representatives Club, a respected colleague of the Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37390	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable State Secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, by analysing the current normative framework, the Proposer assessed that further improvement of national legislation in the field of beekeeping is necessary where it is currently prescribed that gray bees are grown in the Republic of Croatia, however, there is no possibility that conditions for the cultivation of grey bees which is our original breed additionally governed by the Regulation. To be honest, the rules often complicate our farmers' lives, or impose on them criteria that their colleagues from other EU member states do not have. The provisions of the law stipulate that the register of queen growers is run by the Ministry of Agriculture while in the previous period, so before the entry into force of this law, it was prescribed that a recognised breeding society is run by a register or by a registry of queen breeders. Since the law stipulates that the conditions of entry in the register are laid down by a recognised breed society that checks it on the ground. In line with these legal changes, the applicant's intensity is that the registrar's register also runs a recognised breeding society. It is interesting how the Ministry of Agriculture decided to entrust this important task to the Croatian beekeeper's Union, although not long ago the Croatian beekeeping alliance was located in the centre of an affair where the support of beekeepers for bee medicines and according to their claims from 2011-2014. for the medicinal products sold to beekeepers, VAT payments were made out of the incentives they received from the Agricultural Payment Agency. In accordance with the order of the Member State concerned, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4. The rules on the conditions and manner of implementation of the aid measures for the beekeeping sector are not permitted to pay the VAT from the support, beekeepers suspect that the Croatian beekeeper's alliance has committed the criminal offence of the subsidy fraud under the Penal Code and the criminal offence of abuse of the position of power. The inspection report then found that the provision of the Article had been violated. ed.st. 2. Regulation on the conditions and manner of implementation of specific aid measures for the beekeeping sector in 2014 which stipulates that the unit amount of support implies the monetary value of the medicinal product, so without VAT, necessary for one treatment against the disease of one bee community. The control of the documentation by the agricultural inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture and the subsequent interpretation of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Finance established the irregularity of the reduction of the tax base which, as a consequence, had the support for the amount of VAT included, as it stands in the then-published explanation of the agency itself. But it is not the end of the doubts about the transparent work of the Croatian beekeeper's Union. The Croatian beekeepers' union, although not regulated by any regulation from beekeepers, charged from beekeepers the collection of data for the records of beekeepers and beekeepers and charged differently for members of the alliance and for those who did not. So for the members of the fee was 2 kn per basket, while for those who were not members, the fee was 3.5 kn. Thus, practically beekeepers were forced to join the Croatian beekeepers' alliance and were told that they would receive free bee medicines as many as they needed. In this way, and of these records fees, the Croatian beekeeper's Union would make an annual income of about a million kunas, with income from its regular membership fee, which is about a million and a half kuna. I believe it sounded nice to beekeepers at first that for the price of membership fee in the Croatian beekeeper's Union and for the lower fee for the records they would get as much as they needed for bees but that they did not yet know that in the way they suspected, they avoided paying VAT on medicines. I believe that it is justified for many to wonder what the Croatian beekeeper's alliance has gained the Ministry of Agriculture's trust, so this proposal extends their powers by amending and supplementing the law. Furthermore, when the Croatian beekeeping union is authorised to determine or the minister determine how the use and award conditions apply to bee use, taking into account the number and accommodation of hives as proposed, there is a breach of the rules on competition laid down in Chapter 7 of Chapter 1. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. And why am I saying that? The bee of pasha, therefore mediocre plants are a source of honey, so this plant is the essence of production and the source of procurement for honey producers, and we also remain unclear when the powers of the association of citizens or the alliance to determine or possibly the minister himself determines how the producer will use honey pasture or who will be allowed to use this pasture and with which number of hives, this is very likely then a restriction and control of production, and this actually results in the division of the market and source of supply. Therefore, giving authority to one association of citizens or prescribing the right to honey pasture by the minister is necessary, if not for the purpose, then at least for the consequence, prevention, restriction or distortion of competition as regulated by the Article. Article 101 point (b) and (c) of CRR 106. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Furthermore, the provisions of the laws laying down the rules governing the management of bee cadastres are deleted as stated by the Ministry of Agriculture for difficult application in practice. Operational management of pasture-related operations is not prescribed in the applicable law and these legal amendments provide legal basis for the conduct of pasture-related operations. I sincerely hope that there won't be a simultaneous stocking at a time when they're on bee pasture because in practice it means serious potential problems. I note that Croatia is following a negative trend and reducing the number of beekeepers and bee communities mainly due to unstable market conditions and adverse climate change conditions. The prices at which honey can be offered on the market are demotive for our beekeepers and besides, rural areas constantly follow the trend of eviction. Due to the alarming trend of imports of honey from third countries which has a direct impact on Croatian beekeepers, we cannot set the stage for measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to control the quality of honey. New scientific research shows the importance of preserving the biodiversity of European bees. According to a 2017 survey, scientists were shocked by the fact that the number of flying insects in Germany needed for plant species decreased by 3/4 a year. for as much as 82% in the summer period in the last 25 years. As a result, the EU seeks to raise awareness of the need to preserve local bee populations through measures to restore the bee fund, research and education of beekeepers. According to these efforts last year a citizens' initiative was launched... addressed to the Commission in order to promote biodiversity becomes the common objective of the common agricultural policy and is particularly focused on the ban on pesticides, better protection of nature and improvement of agricultural education and training. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The common agricultural policy has important benefits in achieving common objectives in the fight for the conservation of bees, the EU still does not meet the quantity of honey production, so Europe produces only about 60% of its honey needs for the needs of the population, which is why the EU market is under pressure from imports. The EU provides support to its beekeeping sector mainly through national beekeeping programmes and rural development programmes. We sincerely hope that the placement of these measures and our Croatian producers will help to cope more easily with unfair competition, as well as with the climate change that they are following from year to year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37391	Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and the esteemed colleague of Anja Shimprag, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37392	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. These amendments will provide a legal basis for defining the conditions of breeding and protecting the original grey bees. It shall be possible to allow a recognised breed society to keep a register of queen growers and to regulate the operational implementation of pasture operations. It shall also regulate zootechnical certificates, the implementation of artificial sensitisation and training of breeders for the implementation of artificial sensitisation, the keeping of necessary records and registers in the production and transport of replacement products. The national beekeeping programme for the period from 2020 to 2022 for 3 years provided for a total of €44.5 million, with the aim of implementing measures to create conditions for a better position of beekeeping in the Republic of Croatia. This programme is unique for all EU members and contains 8 important measures for our beekeepers. There is also technical assistance to beekeepers and beekeeper organisations, which is the most important measure in the implementation of the beekeeping programme. This measure provides beekeepers with support in the procurement of beekeeping equipment and assistance to beekeepers and associations in the organisation and education of beekeepers. The prevention of bee pests is aimed at supporting the purchase of approved veterinary medicinal products for the control of pests on bees during the summer treatment of bees communities. All measures are intended for beekeepers, and since the interest in them is very high every year, all the funds are spent, and the return is not in full amount but in proportion to the reduction. All efforts seem to be welcomed, but they also need to hear what needs to be changed or done so that both small and large beekeepers are satisfied. The way in which money support is distributed is certainly one of those examples because so far we are only encouraging capital investments through these programmes. In other words, when a beekeeper buys a hive, a pitcher, a trimmer or something else at the end of the year, he adds an account to the paying agency that gives him back some of the money he invested. Beekeepers would like their support paid off as in agriculture and livestock by the number of trees and by the number of throats. That would be fairer and everyone could get both small and large beekeepers. However, so far, small beekeepers and hobbyists have not had such great chances of applying for a return on capital investment because they would all be carried away by large producers. What I want to look at is the Dalmatian beekeepers whose years have been bad for the last two. The time was not good for them, so the honey was reduced in the hives. They hoped to make up for those losses in Face where they had moved their hives for years, but they were welcomed there in 2020 by those new problems. Namely, the tenants of the pastures there simply don't want them, everything is fenced and they couldn't move their hives. By moving in half and even up to 80% less, it is no longer a matter of choice but a direct need. The beekeeping season lasts roughly from 1.5 to 1.9, and if you haven't collected anything for 4 months then unfortunately the season is over for you. Every day is important, every pasture is important, and you have to be on the ground all the time. Simply those from Dalmatia must retreat towards the face from Korenica to Gračac where there is the most screaming. They don't have as much as I said where to leave the bees, they're all fenced with wire and electric shepherds. Beekeepers say the shepherds' wires are located along the road, which we can see for ourselves when we pass. Modern agricultural production has been laid on 4 basiss. The application of artificial fertilisers, irrigation, use of pesticides and use of insects in pollination constitute a set of necessary measures in the development of an industrial commercial agricultural holding. Beekeeping makes a valuable contribution to the production of agricultural cultures with the help of pollination. The economic value of bee pollination is estimated to be several dozen times the value of bee products. It is important here to point out that humanity feeds on 100 different crops and that these bees question more than 70% of them. Therefore, the disappearance of bees in a particular area would result in an accelerated disappearance of more than 20,000 plant species which would negatively affect the overall ecological balance. Therefore, it is unreasonable to view bees only as economically usable animals but we must consider them a very important factor in natural biocenosis. The SDSS representative club will support these amendments and additions to the law in this first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37393	Thank you, too. So we're moving on to the SDP Representatives Club and dear colleague Martin Grman Kizivat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37394	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, we believe that this bill should be complemented by further and highlighted shortcomings and we would like to mention first of all that we propose that legal arrangements be made for the treatment of agricultural holdings, farms and animal care in the event of natural disasters and elementary disasters. We are witnessing that decisions on the accommodation of animals and their diets are made by ad hoc, and are often left to producers and volunteers themselves. In order to provide clear guidance on the handling of state and public services in those situations, we insist that the law be complemented by provisions relating to animal care and the preservation of their biodiversity and genetic variability including original and protected breeds. This way we would also like to ask about the situation of farms in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County or the area affected by natural disaster. How many farms in the area of the mentioned county are now? If, in recent years, no measures are launched to restore agriculture in that area, the number of farms of family farms could fall drastically, and hence the source of income for many farmers in that area, resulting in the abandonment of agricultural production as well as rural areas. On the subject of the amendments and additions themselves, we believe that the existing Law on raising domestic animals defines clear priorities related to the European Green Plan and the long-term strategies adopted at EU level. We'll give you one of the examples. The proposal does not clearly define the difference between biodiversity and genetic variability. It is thus indicated for the gene bank that it is a collection, documented and stored collection or collection of collections of genetic and biological material. So, genetic and biological. For this reason, it is necessary to supplement the provisions governing the issue of conservation of biodiversity, as it could be found in a similar situation to the Seed, Fruit Material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants in which it is not sufficiently relevant on this subject. It seems to us that there are no provisions that prescribe that the Minister in charge of Agriculture shall at least provide guidance on the technology and way of raising domestic animals. Domestic breeders as well as many other farmers in other sectors are left to themselves. In most EU Member States, the Ministry of Agriculture and Monitoring shall issue guidance, guidance and guidance to assist farmers and shall clarify changes to the legal framework. In the Republic of Croatia, it was once done by an advisory service, instead of which is now established by the Department of Professional Affairs and Analysis at the Ministry of Agriculture. So there is no indication of the name of the advisory service, and the analysis makes us a world bank at a already known price. In addition, there was once a Croatian agricultural agency that supported farmers in the livestock sector, and today it is part of the Ministry of Agriculture and part of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food. It's all centralized, and the aid of farmers reduced to administrative work, we find it very sad. In terms of sustainable breeding of domestic animals, as well as agricultural production, we require that other forms of production such as integrated farming, permaculture, bio-dynamic farming and others be analysed at national level when drawing up a strategic plan with organic farming. Those farming methods can be defined under climate and environmental programmes financed through direct payments, but also rural development measures. As far as breeding programmes are concerned, it is not clear why the Framework National Basic Programme is not being adopted, but only programmes of recognised breeding organisations. Shouldn't the Ministry of Agriculture also apply a roof programme on which individual programmes would then be developed? In the very law on the management of parent books, relatives and other breeding books, the ministry leaves everything to recognised breeding organisations, calling for EU Regulation No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We support the approach to entrust a part of the business to farmers themselves, but we believe that such provisions should be clearly laid down in the roof of the National Programme, so there would be no need to define it in each programme of recognised breeding organisations. From the very explanation of the amendments and the addition of the law, it is not clear why the keeping of the bee queen register is being transferred from the ministry to a recognised breed society and what does it mean that the operational part of the pasture management business will be carried out by the Croatian beekeeping union? Is it the Croatian beekeeping alliance a recognised breeding association or something? Furthermore, the amendments to the law suggest that the operations of the management of the bee queen register, as well as the management of the pasture order, are prescribed by the Regulation. Why is the keeping of a register only subject to a bee regulation while other breeding organisations have an integral part of the breeding programmes? We could give you a series of comments, but from all of this, the need to supplement the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, which would clearly define the priorities set out in the European Green Plan, has been seen, and has addressed certain issues that are not so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37395	Thank you, too. We're going to the 7th debate, Green-Left Block Representatives Club, dear colleague William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37396	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. First of all, I would like to explain one misunderstanding, obviously I did not express myself clearly, but I had this remark when it came to the issue of the Veterinary Act. Namely, my question would be this. You explained to me how the debate was, of course, carried out with the Chamber of Commerce or in this case there was the Croatian beekeeping union, the Association of breeders of selected queens of the bees of Croatia and the State Inspectorate that they participated in the preparation of this proposal. Before, if I understood correctly The agricultural chamber, I mean before the economics, but it wasn't listed in this document, so I thought it wasn't. [[Clip incursion: agricultural chamber]] Check it out, you'll see it's not. I am also then for veterinary care where it turns out that there are 144 veterinary cells, I asked what I'm going to ask and in this case, I couldn't find now credible information about how many associations, credible associations, some significant associations there are. I think it's from '18. The information that there were 8,000 beekeepers, there is certain, and perhaps the hobby beekeepers entered it with a few hives and I understand that. Namely, why am I interested in the Secretary of State here? If such a small number of people, we already have that seven and a half months of experience, comes up with these e-consumptions for public discussion. Then it seems to me that it may be, I don't know, or some kind of failure to involve real people in that debate, or maybe it's about fiddling, knowingly fiddling a public debate or a simulation of democracy. But I don't see what the reason for that is because that thing can only be if we're pushing things under the carpet it's coming out. Here in this case, it came out with the question why the Croatian beekeeper's alliance would be the only association of major and most significant importance that would protect the gray bee, of course, that we are all for the protection of these bees and we are aware of all this terrible data that threatens us all if the bees are destroyed, about which colleagues and colleagues spoke very well and preparedly. Nothing else, probably both colleagues and colleagues got it, and you've, I guess, got, later on from beekeeping online, I can't judge it, really, I haven't had time to really ask myself now, although I've asked a variety of people who have connections with beekeepers and I personally know more hobby beekeepers, but I couldn't judge personally, honestly here say, how significant this association is. My proposal is, and now I'm going to do it again is that the moment you decided and when you made such a bill, the bill, I don't know if he had to go to the government right away, I mean, it depends on the assessment, but I don't see why you wouldn't be interested in the association of fruit farmers, cattlemen, in this case beekeepers enough in time to inform them that there's a way to find some via e-mail, and some by mail, so if they don't have the possibility to communicate by e-mail and to inform them that from that date the time window will be open for e- Consultation, for public debate, I don't see what reason it would be not to do so. I don't see that it would cost anything other than this mailing, yes, but otherwise e-mails to collect and send, and then there's this argument that it actually tried to bypass, that it was necessary, that people hadn't seen, overlooked, I think anyone can do it that way because the real question of implementing the pasture order and that art. 3,... bees, beekeeping education, determining the minimum distance between hives or certain objects, about everything, that it's exclusively beekeeping, Croatian beekeeping alliance or other association, if, for the time being, it's HPS and it's normal that it's a threat that maybe one such association is fully privatized and it gets such a monopolie instead of really educating one another, not that only one position, I don't think there's basically, I won't continue to drink about it, there's an ideological prejudice of that kind that thinks order would be, it's got to be known who's in charge, who's the first, who's the center, who's who, who's not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Green-Left Block will surely support and will always talk about the good experiences of sharing practice where we do not impose ourselves on each other in terms of hierarchy, who is stronger, who is more important, and that these others must show the subjection, that they are subject to these superiors, not, but whether we can really at the moment when so much nature and the environment is at stake, whether we can show each other what practices we have and share with each other and not just give everything to, to, in this case, the Croatian beekeeping alliance, and colleagues have already said about how many doubts they have in their work and what has happened in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37397	Now let's go to the last, so far reported debate of club representatives. It's a respected colleague of Silvano Hrelja, a club of representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37398	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A large number of pensioners after, or workers who retire from the hobby are engaged in and beekeeping, but that is not the reason, it is only a commendation for them because it is a wonderful activity, beneficial for health, for people, for nature, for the preservation of plant species, and what is today is the subject of the debate is this law on the breeding of domestic animals, i.e. in the positions of beekeeping, that is, the protection of gray bees is something else entirely. So, right at the start of saying that the HSS and HSU Club won't support this law even in the first reading because it's about excessive norming, because it's about something that's completely unnecessary and something that's completely unlifeless. The EU regulation applies directly and the only thing that needs to be done in this area is to ensure that there is no intervention in the content of the text of the regulation, so all it has to do is to determine the supervisory authority. In particular, this bill concerns the fact that the bill mentions the conduct of business by the Croatian beekeeper's Union because the association is allegedly under investigation by the County State's Attorney's Office of Zagreb for the criminal act of subsidisation fraud. Imagine a situation where, after amendments and additions to the law have taken effect, a criminal procedure, or worse, a conviction. We therefore propose to fully abolish Articles 22, 23 and 24 of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals because they are unnecessary, and I would like to explain the proposed amendments and additions in the text below. So, Art. 22 talks about the breeding of grey bees, the bill suggests that instead of the ministry, the register runs a recognised breed society in a single society and the association can establish three minors. What does that mean? That means ensuring a monopoly with one association. The requirement to sell only queens of breeders who are registered in the breeding register of queens is inconclusive and contrary to EU law. This would mean that each EU and/or non-EU queen producer must be registered in the matrix breeder register. Why is the introduction of another administrative obligation in the form of a registries register when all activities and all domestic animals are already covered by some form of records or by a company or by an OPG or by a craft or by a unique register of domestic animals? So we already have them somewhere in some register. Is it a problem today with all these Internet searches to find someone's registration for something? It's not. It's a quote. Paragraph 1 of the Regulation and paragraph 49 of the Regulation, which reads: ‘It is understood that Member States and their competent authorities should not use this Regulation to prohibit, restrict or interfere with the use of breeding animals, pure breeds and their replacement products for the production of animals which are not intended for entry and registration as breeding animals in the breeding book or breeding register.’ The provisions of the law prevent access to trade or use of bee queens to anyone who is not in the register of queen growers, whether from the Republic of Croatia or from an EU Member State or from a third country. Such a legal solution prohibits, restricts or interferes with the use of both breeding animals and their contaminated products which are listed as breeding animals in a breeding book or register, and those not intended for entry or registration as breeding animals in a breeding book or register. This restriction is further strengthened when proposed in the bill that the registry of queen growers is run by a recognised breeding association instead of the ministry. So the question is, why is the registry of queen growers run a recognised breeding society? The government of the Republic of Croatia suggests that in practice, only one recognised breeding association will have the authority to run the breeding register of queens. Therefore, it gets the authority to run a register of breeders representing competition on the market. Even if an unspecified number of breeding associations is introduced in the bill, we again come to the absurdity that three people, as long as it takes to establish an association, are running a register of themselves. Thus, such a legal solution leads to discrimination, restrictions on entrepreneurial freedom and inequality. Therefore, the bill requires that paragraph 3. adds paragraph 4. which reads: "The conditions for fertilising stations are prescribed by the minister by the regulation." The Croatian Parliament cannot authorise the minister to prescribe the conditions. When a regulation decides on someone's obligations, in our case conditions for fertilising cells, it is then a material law that must be passed in the form of a law rather than in the implementing regulation to which the minister has the right to adopt. This is just another provision that complicates business exactly the opposite of the EU regulation where paragraph 7 is introduced: "Therefore, in order to ensure the simplicity and consistency of Union law, it is appropriate to simplify the rules of the Union set out in those Directives." It's unclear what the definition of beekeeper is for. The beekeeper is a natural or legal person who deals with breeding and/or beekeeping. When the regulation is in Art. Paragraph 1 of point 7 defines a body that deals with breeding, if that definition is not good enough, why does the bill not give the definition of cattlemen, pigsters, shepherds, hensmen, but beekeepers only? The third disputed point is the pasha bee and we really, the Ministry of Agriculture or those who made the proposal of this law seem to not know what kind of country they live in, and some fears that it would come to be the bee's pastures are almost so unfounded, there may be a dispute in some micro, at some micro location, but my people, if you go to Croatia, you'll see huge, vast square miles of abandoned land where there is growth, where you have a bee pasture in unlimited quantities, and you have a register in such conditions, doing a register of bees pasture which is already defined by some form of rights or ownership relations or the Law on mandatory relations, this definition of this law is excessive normation or work that makes life terribly complicated for those who deal with beekeeping and in some way put on a secondary collage of all the beekeeping for humans and for themselves. Therefore, I would like to conclude that it is apparent from the above that Articles 22 to 24 are. The laws that are now in force and what are offered are completely unnecessary. Everything that is supposed to be regulated has already been settled by the Law on Ownership and other Real Rights and the Law on Mandatory Relations, not only unnecessary but also harmful to the development of beekeeping production, as a particular association or Croatian beekeeping alliance is placed in a privileged position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37399	Thank you, too. We are now moving on to an individual debate, first in line is a respected colleague, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37400	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HSA. Secretary of State with an associate. Representatives and MPs. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Domestic Animals will regulate the conditions and conditions and the breeding of grey bees, which is important for the preservation of the genetics of grey bees in the area of the Republic of Croatia. In the world economy, the grey bee is the most important useful insect because it is considered to be a direct and indirect producer of high value and easily digestible foods of animal origin. In addition to the production of honey and other bee products, the grey bee is one of the most important pollinators of honey-growing and self-inflicted plants, it is responsible for pollinating more than 80% of the flowers and more than 70% of the crops and is unforgiving in food production. All the characteristics of the grey bee indicate how this bee is grown is extremely grateful, and genetic resistance and non-aggressive nature allow for the cultivation of this type of bee and in populated areas as well as in cities. Therefore, it can be claimed for a reason that the grey bee is just one of the most important and most recognized bees in the Republic of Croatia. However, the availability of honey produced by Croatian beekeepers is a question that is increasingly present in public space, primarily because consumers are not sure whether the honey jars that are sold on the market are really real Croatian honey for which the grey bee is due or about the pasture. The additional problem is to amend the Honey Directive at European level, which cannot be agreed on, and my opinion should the mandatory labelling of the country of origin of honey be made possible would help to put an end to honey fraud. We today if we don't buy honey from a famous producer who we know exactly where he positioned his hives, we can't be sure what we bought. The recognition of honey pastures and the creation of a basis for clearer declaration and labelling of honey produced by Croatian beekeepers would also help the existence of a Croatian pollen atlas because, according to the pollen analysis, it would be known whether this honey is produced in Croatia or in another Member State or in a third country. And I would suggest to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture to encourage the rapid production of pollen atlas in the Republic of Croatia. Because of the important economic and ecological role of bees, there is a need to take greater care of bees and to support beekeepers who care about them. I am extremely proud that I have succeeded as a Croatian representative in the European Parliament through my amendments to elect support for the bee community that will be introduced with the new common agricultural policy in force, we expect it to be in about a year. My proposal was also accepted to subsidise healthy meals of milk, fruit and vegetables from the European level for Croatian primary schoolmates in realisation. But what is less known is that we have tried to convince the European Commission through our activity and to support both the consumption and education of medicine and healthy nutrition when it comes to honey and olive oil, and there we have been supported to go with education for now. In fact, even before that decision by the European Commission supported by this proposal, Croatia has already started promoting honey from Croatia in such a way as to mark the honey of Croatian honeybees as part of the school honey day, with the aim of education of children about eating habits, the desirable increased share of honey in their diet, the importance of the consumption of products from local producers and the role of beekeeping in agricultural production already in some ways. The label among Croatian beekeepers gives consumers confidence, they believe that this honey is safer, more quality, more reliable than the other honey available on the market and research has shown in fact that our citizens, apart from taste and texture, are important countries of origin and honey producers and therefore prefer to choose to buy honey produced in Croatia. Average consumption of honey in the Republic of Croatia is two kilograms per capita, we have 8500 beekeepers 440,000 bee communities that produce 8,000 honey annually, and here we have room to increase and consume and buy Croatian honey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37401	Thank you, too. Let's go with the replicas, first up, fellow Shimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37402	I thank the president of HS. Dear colleagues. Before us are the amendments to the law and my question to you are they sufficient to protect our indigenous gray bee, since joining the EU is likely to lead to a crossover of communities, so the question is, are these crossed communities better than our own? And my second question is how do we protect unfair competition, given that we're importing med doubtful quality, and that we have domestic products that are top quality? And I think we should do everything we can to protect our domestic product and price, especially to prevent the import of suspicious honey from questionable countries of origin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37403	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37404	Thank you very much. My colleague Simičević, so I think that these amendments to the law are quite desirable because we aim to protect our indigenous breed, it is a grey bee that has really excellent qualities because it is already observed in some other Member States that it does not bring good to the population or to the population, and then not later on, all those activities for which bees are due from pollination to honey production. This law does not prescribe anything that would be outside the scope of what the European regulation requires, or which is already a practice in other Member States, and, in fact, even somehow, laws on those practices that have been imposed among Croatian beekeepers that they have been carrying out on the ground for years. When it comes to curbing unfair competition, we discussed last week a law on unfair commercial practices that should be our main instrument and tool to combat unfair commercial practices and fraud, as well as honey.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37405	Now it's my fellow Sacic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37406	Dear colleagues, here you have already answered a part of the question, you have said how many numbers, how many beekeepers we have in Croatia. But if we can even assume how many there are, is that not the final number, next to those that are not registered, they are also working from hobby to 10 hives. They're also a significant number and they also work. Maybe if we had any records of our beekeeper associations at the county level, he gave you what you know because they are not in the system, and contributes, in fact, to produce quality honey.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37407	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37408	Thank you, dear fellow Sacic for your question. According to my information, about 7,000 beekeepers are active within the Croatian beekeepers' roof association, and there are some 7,000 beekeepers there somewhere. According to the records I came to, and by means of the Ministry of Agriculture and Communications on the ground, about 8,500 beekeepers were reported in Croatia overall, which means that in principle, if we compare it now compared to 2 years ago. We even record the growth of beekeepers and record the number of bee communities, which is positive and which shows that these support through the National Bee Programme results, and I also believe that this support that I have chosen at European level when it comes will be significant because it is just supporting this pollinating role of the bee and will be allocated to the bee community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37409	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37410	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I don't think we should particularly emphasize the role of bees, especially in farmers who do fruit growing, they see it and feel it when a new bee bear appears nearby, when someone comes with their bees and makes a real big use of that orchard. What bothers me in this law is that it deletes the bee cadastre" and says it's because something is difficult. If today is a difficult time to run a catastrophe, then it's really funny, it's a ridiculous finding. And this data is extremely important, first of all, because we're going to have a record of who sows, who sows, because we know what bear battles are, like oiled tails, there's a mass coming into that area with bees. We have data at the Ministry of Agriculture, we have data at the Agriculture Payment Agency, so we have data, and that's just another layer in the Catastrophe, and I don't know why it's being deleted, and on the other hand you're calling for an atlas of this Peludna atlas in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37411	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37412	Thank you very much, colleague Pavic. So the cadastre is actually replaced by a register that is already being run. Katastar was one obligation that was not implemented in the way it was imagined, although it was kept by beekeepers and pasture commissioners already on the ground, since for other breeding associations or breeds it was prescribed to keep a register de facto register which is regulated by this law, and which is already being replaced by a cadastre, so there will be no dissonant tones or differences in the data to be conducted and which will be explicitly shown. When it comes to the Peludna atlas, yes, not only do I call but I strongly call for them to apply to this business because it seems to me that this would significantly help identify Croatian honey and distinguish that honey from the paves on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37413	Now it's time for my colleague, Nadj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37414	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Petir, do you have any information as to how many earthquakes have been threatened by the Bani beekeepers in Banja, and how will they be helped to maintain or increase the production of bees or honey? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37415	Can I answer that? Yeah. Thank you, colleagues, for your inquiry. So among the victims, the death victims of Banovina were beekeepers, and this way I express my condolences to their families and friends, and it is certain that this earthquake has left a toll on more than 4,000 agricultural holdings. They were registered through the Ministry of Agriculture and were provided through this direct contact and, and one call if they needed help to address the Ministry of Agriculture. According to my information, that rural development programme that is just intended for the recovery of agricultural holdings, if you remember we talked about it if he had complicated procedures was communicated through the Ministry of Agriculture to the European Commission where the approved and simplified procedures were approved and a tender was launched to directly assist the injured agricultural holdings in Banovina. So I invite them all to report to that contest. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37416	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37417	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, and last week we talked about the importance of identifying insecticides, pesticides and heavy metals in honey and propolis. Most warlords and fruit farmers are aware that it is extremely important to take care of when and how insecticides and pesticides are used, but there are still some who, either because of negligence or because of the ignorance of the product, are less than or greater incidents such as this catastrophic killing of bees in Međimurje. Do you think the state is working enough to educate warlords, farmers and have the institutions adequately responded to this major incident? In fact, there was a lot of dissatisfaction with our beekeepers that the samples were taken too late, to know who the culprit was, and nothing was done, it was known exactly what plot it was, which rat and that the institutions had actually failed. So can the state do more in education or in inspections and prevention and punishment of the guilty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37418	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37419	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. So I would say this, I think that there is a need for dialogue between sectors because it is often, and I think it unjustly opposes warlords and beekeepers, and it certainly cannot contribute to the synergy that we want to achieve, which is that these sectors work together to make agriculture more prosperous because we depend on each other. When it comes to the situation in Međimurje, I have different information from you because I directly contacted the presidents of beekeeping communities I know there, since I organised the European Week of Bees and promoted Croatian beekeepers as a representative of the EU Parliament, and then I have these contacts from the field, I asked them if they thought that after these negotiations that they had with the Ministry of Agriculture and about compensation and the whole situation which is truly terrible about the bee's sea in Međimurje, if they wanted us to do anything else, they said they were satisfied with the agreement reached with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37420	Time. Thank you. Next individual debate, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Comrade Bauk, I've been warned you don't have a mask. Here you go, Officer Bauk's breach.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37421	Mr. Vice President, you've noticed correctly that I've hurt an officer. 293.b The Rules of Procedure of HS because I took off the mask, which I did in protest because of the flagrant and rude violation of the epidemiological measures yesterday at Mirojo sponsored by the national and local headquarters, and therefore I ask you to give me a warning that at least someone would be sanctioned for it yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37422	Okay. I'm not going to give you a heads-up about yesterday, but I'm giving you a heads-up about this today because you violated the Rules of Procedure. Namely, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37423	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot about beekeeping so far, we've heard about some problems, we've heard about it, about the reasons for making these amendments to the law, but we haven't heard what I think is the most important thing. We haven't heard the answers to any questions that must be occupying, not just our beekeepers, but also us who think a little about agriculture. We haven't heard, so we heard how many beekeepers there are, we heard how much, which is the amount of honey we produce per capita, etc., but I'm interested in something else. How much honey do we take out as raw material? It's a question of all questions, colleagues and colleagues. And where we take him. Here, I'll tell you. We export to Germany, we export to France, we export mostly to the Western market where our honey, the top product mixes with inferior products and then returns to us in bottles of French honey, German honey, etc., etc. On branding, colleagues and colleagues, not just honey, our farms in general, we have completely, completely failed. We have some small examples of good practice, let's say Krapina-Zagorje County has worked very hard to brand Zagorje medicine that exists as a brand, you can find it on the shelves of our shops, there was some weak and not quite so much an attempt to do the same with Slavonic honey, and I'll tell you and I'll compare your medicine and wood production. We export the tree exclusively as logs, our production is gone, our colleagues and colleagues. This standardization, branding, comes with a thick delay. Because we export our honey as raw materials, we don't export it as a product and then someone sells it to us at a significant, significantly higher price. Osijek, the city from which I come is the cradle of Croatian beekeeping, I don't know how much you know about it, but organized beekeeping in Croatia originates precisely from my city and because of it, and also because of the fact that I've worked with the medlers for a long time, I can tell you what their problems are and what we are helping or not helping this law. It was mentioned before about the bee register pasture, about the bee cadastre, etc. Well, colleagues and colleagues, we're not able to run a cadastre and garter, where it's about property relations, so where someone should be very motivated to make it all right in books, and we're kidding ourselves that we're going to be able to manage the cadastre or the bee register successfully. Well, I think that's funny. We can't write down how much the property of the state, which the state's property has in its possession, is that we're not talking about the land. We can't put the country in office. How many agricultural areas do you have that have now grown up in chicare, in the woods, and we're getting carried away that we're going to do, you know what, the bee register, so it's going to be wonderful, wonderful, great, so let's not God write down who's growing on which land, so what would help agriculture? In my opinion, someone mentioned before, a colleague of the Hrelja, I think, needlessly, overtired, too late, something that will actually only complicate life, not help it. First of all, the producers. And what is the ultimate goal, then, is the ultimate result of all that we do? And I've already talked about it when it comes to European regulations. Renouncing, complicatedness, we seem to be working systematically to discourage our producers from producing, destroying them, precisely by over-nodging them, by paying which taxis, membership fees, air taxes because they cannot be competent with their colleague and colleagues from other countries of the Union by operating in such conditions. They may be of quality and they are, but unfortunately, I don't think we're going to achieve our goal by this law, and the goal should be to improve our beekeeping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37424	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Mako Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37425	Dear fellow, here you come from Slavonia, which is to be the honest economic most affected area of our Republic and perhaps part of our country that lives in the greatest poverty, from where the largest population has emigrated. Tell me, do you know a project by the Croatian Government, and you mentioned a branding or unit of local self-government that has proved successful and helped our small producers, regardless of what they produce and what they do to make sure that this product is not exported as a semi-product, but that as a finished product we offer the EU and that in some way in the right light we show all the quality and luxury that we have in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37426	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37427	Thank you very much. My colleague Kuzmanić, to know a lot of projects like this, but I don't know any who gave the results. I'll give you one plastic example, let's say our big export product was sugar, I have to get back to it. In our trade with, say, the Republic of Bulgaria, which is not insignificant, as much as 8% dropped on sugar in 2019. A large, large amount. And you know what our Ministry of Agriculture did? It brought measures that were two years late first, and then two years didn't produce results, and then we're surprised as a turkey, you know what when our sugars fail, when we don't have enough producers, then the problem is. The Minister is not in the Parliament, I believe she is coming up with all these proactive measures that the Government will take to help our manufacturer, and the results are clear to you, you yourself said, the demographic and economic devastation of the East of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37428	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37429	Thank you very much. I picked up the replica the moment you mentioned the cadastre and the garland. Indeed now that we see all the laws that are coming to us, there comes this trend of digitization, one trend that we are somehow leading, and now the catastran is going to be this, the one, even more so when it comes to us as another point of the agenda of the Agriculture Act that I am sure you will be actively involved in, there's a provision of 17 different things, now it's just a question of who's going to lead it. So, on the one hand, someone can lead and agree, but who will fill? If it's gonna fill someone 75 or 76 or 80, he's got a cell phone with his cell phone, but this is not going to come to my mind. So, you can put the platform together, you can order from someone the best possible program, but that someone in that program must put the data. How they're going to put them, which is going to be about it, I'm afraid no one's taking care of it, and that's what you see on this example here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37430	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37431	Thank you, colleague Dark Tarritash. Well, like many laws, things are, I don't know if it's deliberately left unsettled in a lot of laws, then we solve something by sublegal acts, then we're usually even more complicated, and what do we get in the end? From the fact that we should make it easier for manufacturers and farmers when it comes to mediocre varieties or cultures that are honey and beekeepers themselves, we finally did something absolutely the opposite. And you're right, I think my family had the same thing to say not to argue with the catastre and the garter that we're motivated to change or bring into order papers and through legalization, etc., and imagine here where we're going to have some cadastre or register or what it's going to be called where people are actually going to be actively discouraged to bring anything into it. So, implementation is always zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37432	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37433	My dear representative, I am very pleased that my colleague Taritash also referred to this information about the cataster, erasing cadastrian data, or that your data will no longer be kept because it's actually funny because it's a lot easier to go through an interactive map and get data into... the same thing than to enter data into some register then search it there by some key concepts, which is actually for people who are dealing with computers a little or almost nothing more difficult than it would be on an interactive map. But I wanted to ask you something else. You mentioned branding, you mentioned Slavonic honey, we know there's Istrian honey, there's island honey, there's island honey, there's Dalmatian honey, there's something going on, but there's not enough. When we talk about island honey or Dalmatian honey, there are no large quantities, there has been mixing. At times, honey from Dalmatia was primarily referred to as lavender honey, and today lavender is also grown in Slavonia. Therefore, there are no longer any rules where what is grown Plants. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] We should have some kind of system access to so that we can brand our honey and depending on the region and ultimately at the level of Croatia. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37434	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37435	Thanks a lot, buddy. Well, we should have systematic solutions, strategic solutions with a vision that sees beyond two years or four years, but we don't have them in particular in agriculture, but we don't have in other segments that we don't fool ourselves. Branding about the agricultural product if you have finished the product is very important for the manufacturers of your county from which you come, and with this project I am well aware, so branding Zagorje honey you have actually made a very, very big, very big deal for your manufacturers. In Slavonia, unfortunately, this was not the case because you have several large manufacturers who already have a brand so they are not interested in this, and those who have not even heard of this carefully, some beekeepers have not even heard of the concept of Slavonic honey. So, a totally missed story, unfortunately, unfortunately. And why is that? So, I think now that I'm bad, I'd say because the HDZ is in power there, so it doesn't matter to God what happens to our beekeepers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37436	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37437	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I agree with you that this is all too much norming together, especially this part that you mentioned about the bee cadastre pasture. Namely, beekeepers know whose property is above a certain land and ask for permission to place bees in a particular area, so it is none, there is no dispute that they do so legally and in agreement with the owner of the land and know the situation with the pasture of cattle in that area. So they're very, very careful people because someone has to be careful as soon as they deal with bees. And secondly, there is no fear of the lack of bees pasture or extra cattle on the pasture, that simple in Croatia are two opposing things that do not exist, therefore. And whoever disbelieves, let him look at the satellite footage 30 years ago and today, and see what is the difference in the shaming of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37438	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37439	Thanks a lot, buddy. I agree with colleagues who have said before me that an interactive map or pollen atlas that is also intended to work on would be much more useful than some of these travestiers like this catastrophe that will actually depend on end users rather than on how much it will actually help producers. What you said is absolutely right, beekeepers are very, very careful people, they have to be because of the nature of the job. And instead of helping them, we're just trying to keep them normal, we're still standardizing, and we're still putting burdens on them. I'm telling you, I can't take the impression, not just about the beekeeping, that we deliberately overnourished and complicated that people are actively discouraged to deal with such productive activities. And your honey and honey production may be the shortest production and the cheapest to have a full product, a finished product, a branded product that you sell then three more expensive than raw materials and we are in a position to do just that, to import raw materials instead of exporting the product.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37440	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37441	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. I'm going to try to get this five-minute debate done in a way that points to a few things. The first thing, that there is one new fashion now that we have when we get the law, then by law we have defined only some things and everything else will define sublegal acts. So a little bit when you see the law, then you see that regulations need to be made, rules should be made, and a metric is decided there. That wasn't a situation until now. So far, the law has always been defined as a measure and the rules and regulations that have been adopted have only developed a metric. Let's wonder why that is. Maybe it's because he doesn't want to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. Maybe he wants it to go somehow under his work, it's just not good, it's always going to be around the person who's proposing, and it's going to be a problem for him. But I'd like to talk about this subject and define two more things. One thing is climate change, climate change is fact. I think the introduction was someone talking about what bees mean in terms of sustainability not only of natural nature, but also of what bees mean in human life, and that should be taken into account. So climate change doesn't happen to someone else. Climate change is happening to us now and now. That's something to take care of. So a lot of scientists, people of different experiences, different skills talk about it, warn and say adapt. For this killing of the bee that was in Međimurje, at the beginning was the theme that something had changed, so that there were different climate conditions, so that some things changed because in the end it was seen that as always a man was guilty. Who's to blame for the climate that is? It's always the man's fault in the end and it's the man who determines and influences a number of things but I'd like to refer this rest to one topic that I've asked the secretary of state and that's urban beekeeping for you. So, somehow it doesn't seem to me or anything, but I'm sure the ministry in its work should not only change the laws because the EU directives are like that, not only because someone came and jumped over my head and said give me the law to change that and that because this can't be implemented, but also because it's a bit of a follow-up and it's trends. So, in no urban area can be urban beekeeping because you must have the basis of the Law on municipal activity decisions on the municipal order of keeping animals, and bees are animals and now we come to the subject of urban beekeeping. Until this law says that there is urban beekeeping, that even in the area where cities can be hives and people can deal with beekeeping, you can't do it in some other law. Why am I talking about it like that? We wanted to introduce the concept of urban beekeeping in the city of Zagreb. For the reason you have bees. The green surfaces you have, so you have this possibility, some other cities that have much less showed and you have on the hive parliaments where you work, these hives are made honey, and then when you drink tea there, you wouldn't be like Mr. Zekanovic gave that little honey secretary but you have honey that says that this honey is made right here and that way. I think it's a good thing, I think it's a story because you have bees in cities anyway. Why not do so and allow cities in their municipal order decisions to say that in their areas, therefore, in the urban area, not outside the urban area can be be grown bees? But that's the answer that when you get some kind of formal answer then the formal answer knows the following, no one asked. Wait a minute, is it the ministry's role to follow what's going on? Are there any changes to the law when you see you're having problems with that law? Is it the role of all of us to see what's going on? So, my people, the law must have a formal part as it does, but it has to have some essential part, it has to have some measure, not transfer it to regulations and regulations, but let's see why it is. And if we see that some other environments have done it, so why don't we just do it, but we should have a pilot project so someone can order us, then we'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37442	We've got a few replicas, the first distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37443	Dear colleague Anka, you're right. If this one predicts that the conditions for fertilising cells bees, that they should be regulated, then it should be regulated in law because it is material law, and the regulation is an implementing regulation. And yes, I've been watching myself in these benches under one law and it's foreseen to adopt 3, 4 regulations, which is totally incorrect to HS deputies because they don't know where this law is eventually going to turn, but I've never experienced one of these years that we have at the same time on the table and the law and the proposal for an implementing regulation. I think that we deserve it and that our citizens deserve it, especially those who are engaged in certain activities, to have both the law and the implementing regulation at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37444	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37445	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hrelja. So we always have, we should do some steps. It seems to me we have to be better, not worse, but now we've decided to be bad with our legislation. So why are we changing and doing laws? Because we have EU directives or we've miswritten them, understood them or mistranslated them, so it's all okay, but we're not getting into the metrics. So, the measure, the essence, what's meat, why we write laws and why we do it, we leave it for something else. It can never be the rulebook that will then define the metric. He's working on it, so he's working on you technically, but what's essential, he has to be in the law, not to say that there are regulations that work equally technically, but if you don't have it in the law defined, then the rule has taken over the role of the law. Then the Resolute Minister took over the role of the Parliament, and it simply cannot happen to us and cannot happen. The minister cannot take over the role of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37446	Next replica Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37447	Dear Representative Dark-Taritash. By teaching what you said, I'll agree, you know what they say, like when we talked about sexual harassment? Then says Minister Malenica will pass the law, and I ask, forgive me, how will he pass the law? Is he a legislative body? Well, that's obviously what we're talking about. We no longer have sublaws, but extralegal acts, we had a similar situation and with the Rehabilitation Act when we saw the programme of measures, ambitions were practically halved, but he was still neither read nor criticized. We have a wider trend... parliamentary debates in which we should discuss, which is the fact that we first discuss the laws or members of the programme council, and later in reports that should precede these laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to ask you something about urban beekeeping. The argument that no one asked is yes, I agree, insufficient. We haven't even been attacked by digital nomads, so we're changing legislation because of them. However, I'm curious, do you have any indication whether there's any interest in... in... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37448	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37449	Thank you very much for this question. So this first part, of course, is absolutely the topic of the debate, it's all upside down. First, there should be a report so the law and, on the basis of the report, you are making an amendment to the law, but I will still use time related to urban beekeeping. Yes, in the city of Zagreb, beekeepers prayed and asked that they could legally place hives and, yes, we, I am also a representative in the City Assembly, we went with a proposal to amend the decision on municipal order that in the city of Zagreb in the area, the urban area of the city of Zagreb could be and place bees, i.e. hives, not bees, but hives, I apologize, and the debate was in the City Assembly one whole afternoon and one bigger because we convinced each other that yes or no. We even got a sufficient number of hands that would even accept that and then the last argument came, we can't because it's not laid out in the law. Therefore, the law should be able to install it at local level, i.e. the city of Zagreb and both. Yes, there are great demands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37450	Next replica representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37451	Thank you. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, you've done one thing well at the beginning of your debate, no bees, no agriculture, no people, no bees, no lives. And the intention of protecting the grey bee is to praise me, so we should give laud to this effort, but as you yourself have pointed out by some colleagues and colleagues here, we are passing the law, so today we are discussing a law that we already know in advance will not be enforceable or will be difficult to implement. Why are we doing this to ourselves as a legislator, but also ultimately, to these producers and citizens who should be helped? Don't get me wrong, I'm not going against this law and everything that it says, but a lot of things are bad, unspeakable and impregnable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37452	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37453	Thank you very much. So we face the next fact more and more often. We have the law, the law says everything well, and then we come into reality and we see that in reality things work differently. I'm absolutely sure if we're changing a law that's related to bee breeding, it might be wise to sit with beekeepers, so if we saw some problems, let's see how they picture it. It seems to me that this would be an elemental situation, and we're not going to change the law, beekeepers will go their own way, the law will go its own way, and finally we won't have the result we need to have. There is something else I have to admit for days that has been freaking me out, that National Recovery and Resistance plan that no one has seen, and in which 37% of the funds we receive from the EU must be meant for the topic of climate change. Well, it'd be good to see that, and maybe if things like this had been put in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37454	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37455	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, a few sentences about urban beekeeping that you mentioned. In fact, it is not prohibited theoretically with us, but there is that rule on the minimum distance of hives to each other or from some of the objects of tourist facilities, roads, airports, etc., so that in fact the existing rule should be changed or completed, so this is on the trail of what you said that in fact all of us or the state must go for legal changes. For urban beekeeping there is an interest not only in Zagreb but also in other and larger and smaller cities and should absolutely support it. Zagreb also boasts urban gardens, there is space on the roofs of buildings and buildings and fenced spaces, etc., so that in any case it should encourage urban beekeeping to develop, but it is still the legislator's move, that is, the first legislator. And there's just another fellow Petyr you mentioned the murder of a bee in Međimurje So they were dissatisfied with the whole implementation, but better those million kunas than nothing. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37456	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37457	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238. Namely, colleague of the Dark Taritash Barate with semi-information. We did not see the National Recovery Plan as responsible people, but we saw journalists just as well as the National Development Strategy. Remember before the paper wrote about it than we were responsible for who should have seen it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37458	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, and you're getting a warning. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37459	Thank you very much. A colleague, Hajdukovic, was worth this reminder. And to go back to the theme of urban beekeeping, so all those who want to be on their building have and can be a building that's in the green surface says I want to set up hives, we're going to produce honey and everything else, it can only be illegal at this point. So the legislator has to define it through the laws so that you can then pass it on to the local level. That's why I was talking about the example, I know about the example of the City of Zagreb, so we had all the arguments and we even had at one point maybe enough hands to say it, you know that this number of hands is always crucial, with us always in the City of Zagreb Assembly if HDZ had a little fight with Mr Bandic then there was a chance that few of these hands might be for us, but that's another story. And the last argument was we can't, until the Ministry of Agriculture defines it, but we can't. I still don't understand why you don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37460	The last replica of the esteemed representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37461	Dear MPs, I'm going back to the Catastre a little bit, because it really bothers me. I know what beekeeping is, for a while I've been doing beekeeping, it's a beautiful hobby, interesting, it can also be if you're a little more agile than that, but what's extremely important in that part is monitoring the bee's movement. It's about uncontrollably spreading the disease. You when you have a cadastre when you know which bee of pasha, when you know where the bee is located, when it's all set into a cadastre means in graphic form you can follow it much easier and react much easier if something extraordinary happens. So he would appeal that unless something was done because it could not be done or done badly, it would not be abolished but forced people to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37462	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37463	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić. So, I will always advocate for the development of digitization, for the availability of data, for the data that can be made available to everyone, that you have information exactly who, where the land is, where it is not, who is growing, who is planning to grow, because you can also grow a certain number of years then no longer, I have no problems at all at all, but what you get to reality so you can make an application that is most perfect and you will absolutely be able to enter into that application or someone else will do it, but the question is how many people and how many people are ready for it all together. I'm always going back to the cadastre, we still have 3,600 catastrian municipalities, I'm talking about those on the ground, you know how much we've got? About 10% somewhere. Well, my people, it takes us years to even move and decide something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37464	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37465	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals in the most part has been seen to refer to beekeeping. I come from Međimurje County where we have two beekeeper associations and one "Agacija" with 200 members, another "Nectar" with 40, on average somewhere over 10,000 hives and annual production about 150 tonnes of honey, which is not even small for our county. We were in 2020. One large bee-murder, 1221 hives were killed by 37 bee producers and another 100 hives that were not officially registered. And our beekeepers reacted sharply with the right because beekeeping is dealt with for many years, they deal with love and know what beekeeping is and what beekeeping means not only in this economic part, the ecological part, but also in the health part, because the honey bee product is not only pollen, wax, propolis, parent milk, we use it all in food or it is a food supplement and it is very important. I came up with one piece of information actually first to say what beekeeper's problems are. I've come up with information that we're 2018. Introduce 1560 tonnes of honey, mostly from Spain and from countries outside the EU, and our exports were 300 tonnes. So that's one problem that our beekeepers meet is that price and cheap import, and expensive, expensive sales and then they wouldn't say on the market in an equal position. The other thing, today no one has touched a very important issue, which is the control of abandoned beekeepers who are a direct source of infection and disease for other beekeepers. In particular, there is no mechanism to resolve them because they are privately owned and located on private parcels. And the third problem is that I see, and that was said today and that's what it's about. liquid honey or parched honey that our customers are looking for on the market, which is actually quite a big scam. And what is very important to stress is the problem for small producers where very difficult to get stamps for propolis production and so on. medics. But what is important and important to me is to point out that I hope and believe that the problems I have cited will solve both the law and the legal acts. A well - known colleague, Matula, said that he finds it strange that such a small number of medics are involved in that public debate or consultation. That's strange to me, too, because they must have problems that are just kind of hard to tell. In my opinion, breeding associations are not controversial because they aim at genetically improving domestic animals, implementing approved breeding programmes, quality selection, safeguarding genetics and, of course, the development of original breed programmes and so forth. But you'd be back to square one. So you'd go back to the beginning and what happened last year. The human factor is most important, is it really possible for someone to unwittingly use or pesticides and herbicides and thus destroy 1200 or 1300 [[Intruder: Time]] The hive. [[Intruder: Time]] And I thank the Ministry for these millions of kunas who helped our beekeepers That means a lot to them. [[Intruder: Time]] I welcome the law, but I wouldn't put beekeeper problems under the carpet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37466	Replica's esteemed representative, Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37467	Dear fellow Parliamentarian, here in previous discussions a lot has been said about so-called. urban beekeeping. I would really like to hear your opinion on the realistic possibilities of this, given that here I know the cases where we had problems where and in rural areas some neighbors were looking to move the beekeeping communities away from the inhabited areas, I really don't understand how someone thinks about the balconies or on the roofs of houses on the 5th floor somewhere keeping bees? I don't think they're oleanders or, or these other flowers that need to be watered once a day, this one I'd really like your expert opinion on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37468	Thank you very much. Well, I wouldn't just say it's rural beekeeping but generally talk about rural livestock. There's a really big problem, and there's a lot of JLS to be very careful about because people have become quite sensitive, they're getting pretty close. Personally when I worked as a veterinary inspector a lot of interventions we had when someone started, I'll say recreationally, deal with beekeeping, and if this hive was placed near the neighboring yard were reactions and we had to react, I think the spatial plans of JLS, especially cities, must be smart and wise not to have such cases. It's hard enough, it's not very simple in either beekeeping or porking or in cattle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37469	Next replica Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37470	Urban environments need to be processed and people's bees are educated, perhaps a HDZ colleague thinks that we can also do urban gardens and all other green areas because it will be in our city, especially if some carrot or tail springs in a place where it's inappropriate. But I'd like to ask you something that you've concluded your presentation with. In Serbia, the official beekeepers' associations stressed that the biggest problem and the killing of bees caused their poisoning. So people are different pesticides that they use. Do you have any idea how big this problem is at Croatia level, and are people even sufficiently educated to destroy bees directly and indirectly through the non-critical use of pesticides and what can be done about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37471	I think the answer is very simple. Such people need to be located and punished. So, the use of herbicides and pesticides as far as I know it, is prescribed by law that everything you buy, what one agricultural producer buys, he must keep his empty packaging records for it and return and adequately take care of it. The one who does not, should be adequately and severely punished, especially when such things happen because they were not only endangered animals but also humans.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37472	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37473	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, you spoke of imports of honey, we all know that our honey is the best, best quality, that it cannot be compared to what is being imported. How are we going to protect our domestic product or how are we going to prevent these commercial lobbys from being the masters of the situation when we know that on the other hand we have much better quality and better honey and I think we should do everything we can to strengthen the production of homemade honey rather than in a simpler and easier way importing unquality honey? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37474	Thanks for asking. So I think by marking the import honey, it's number one. Secondly, I personally consider our domestic honey that is very quality, perhaps too weak and advertised. So, we have to work and our beekeepers have to work on their promotion, and I think maybe they're too secretive. I will say one example when 10 or 12 years ago we wrote documents where Croatian honey was exported from a small town in Međimurje to Switzerland, Switzerland is not an EU country, and when we got feedback, they told us that they would make 10 kg of their honey out of our one kilo. It means our honey is very good quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37475	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ankica Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37476	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2018 and applicable from 1 January 2019. The main objective of this law is to ensure effective implementation of breeding programmes, improve breeding and production of domestic animals in the Republic of Croatia. This law regulates cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, hooves, poultry and grey bees. The fact is that without the breeding of domestic animals, there is no quality and healthy domestic food, that domestic animal farming in economic and social terms has strategic importance for the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia and contributes to the conservation of nature and cultural heritage. In rural areas, pet breeding is the original walk of the agricultural community or household. With these amendments and additions to the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals that we are discussing today, we want to further improve the area of beekeeping through the breeding of grey bees, which is our original or local breed. The purpose of these amendments and additions is to provide a legal basis for defining the conditions of cultivation and protection of the original grey bee by the adoption of the Regulation, to enable a recognised breeding association, to introduce a register of queen breeders, since they already determine the conditions of entry in the register and to regulate the operational implementation of pasture operations or the way in which bee pastures have been managed which has not been prescribed in this applicable law. It would point out that in the area where I live more and more young and small OPGs deal with beekeeping and I believe that these changes and additions will also contribute to their work and production of honey and other bee products. And I would also point out that Slavonic honey is a protected, indigenous Croatian food product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37477	We have one replica, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37478	We talked a lot about honey, maybe a little less about the role of bees in the eco system, but also their practical purpose at the level of fertilization and pollination. No bees, no apples, no strawberries, no cherry, no plums or significantly smaller offerings. Can you look a little more closely at the indirect benefit we have from the bees except for this direct one that comes in the form of honey that we have often discussed here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37479	So the immediate benefit is health protection, health protection. For this species, it means where honey is produced means for lime, sunflower, oil rape, chestnut, etc. Which there's a lot in the area means Slavonia. So there's this kind of plant that's been produced by honey.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37480	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37481	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. Here I would say one good topic in HS. Beekeepers are certainly people to talk about, and this is a good opportunity. But what always worries is that somehow we take a little turn from the debate itself and from the habitat itself and the debate itself, and then it goes into some kind of data that is absolutely threadless and just wants to throw mud at someone, so it was the fact that HDZ is guilty of killing a bee. I mean, it's really one of the findings that must have marked this morning's debate today. On average, Croatia produces about 7,000 tonnes, tonnes of honey, out of those 7,000 tonnes of honey almost produced, produced by Slavonic producers. This was also about a brand of "slavon honey" and I'm surprised that my colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, who comes from the same neighborhood as me, instead of taking advantage of this stage and educating people to join a project that is commendable, all five Slavonian counties joined in one. For now, these data are very devastating, but it will remain defeated if we don't talk about it, if we don't educate people to have a chance to team up under one brand, which is Slavonic "slavonian honey". Osijek-Baranja County has about 845 beekeepers and what concerns, and these amendments and additions of this law are also in favour of what I want to talk about. Osijek-Baranja County is 2017. produced 1300 tonnes, 1300 tonnes of honey to have only 430 tonnes in 2019. Two very important factors affecting them, and many parliamentary representatives spoke about them, and these are climate change, absolutely that have disrupted the whole story of beekeeping in the area not only of these 5 Slavonian counties but of the space of the Republic of Croatia and one part of last year, it certainly did so and reduced a small amount of honey and corona, respectively, which appeared in these areas where beekeepers at one point when the absolute lockdown could not have done part of the preparatory season that expected them during that period. What is important, and how much we follow in the last and behind this point comes the point of the law on or on amendments to the Agriculture Act. The other day we talked about unfair trade practices. That's the point. We need to focus everything on protecting domestic production. We will not protect domestic production unless we provide instruments to protect this unfair commercial practice or to protect the domestic market. Information that in Ukraine is a kilo of honey EUR 2 tells you clearly what problems this can lead to, what problems this leads to when it comes to the market in general honey in the area of the Republic of Croatia. 2017 a good story started with the protection and branding of Croatian honey in jars with the inscription "Croatian honey" I think we should work on it, the grey bee is something that is here, all beekeepers who work here in Croatia are the ones who think that the grey bee that brings the best honey, which is the most mediocre and for which it is of course necessary and that indigenous species to protect it in this way. Thus, the problems that arise in this area are certainly great. Mr. Hajdukovic said something about Osijek being one of the first centres to be set up, the first beekeeping society founded in 1879. in Osijek and a large number of beekeepers built their whole story on these experiences. However, what we certainly need and need to achieve to prevent these unfair commercial practices which, by all segments, lead to a significant problem by Croatian farmers or Croatian producers. I hope that by amending and supplementing this law we will at least partially resolve that part of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37482	You have several replicas, but first the breach of the Rules of Procedure, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37483	Art. The 238th lie is that HDZ is guilty of killing a bee. Bees are also a big role model for human social communities. In that sense, it is notorious that HDZ is unexpectedly again guilty of killing its queens, while valuable quiet bees continue to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37484	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37485	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear fellow, here we know that our bee is quality, that our honey is quality, and here my question to you is whether we are investing enough in the incentive to protect, to protect our bee product and here, is really the case here that it is not investing enough in protection that I consider pure demagogy. You come from Slavonia, and you can tell if you have any information on how much has been invested or how much has this government given the incentive to maintain bee communities or bear production in Slavonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37486	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37487	Thank you very much, dear fellow Shimičević. Yes, here is always the question of who has essentially done more damage in Croatia? I don't think that should ever be a measure of what we're discussing but here, there's some kind of animosity that can't be brought down here in the Croatian Parliament on one real basis so we can talk about arguments, talk about facts, numbers, and they're the only ones who should be the only ones who look at us, mean something and direct them in the space where Croatia is at all. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture is passing through its measures and the beekeeping sector, and I was saying something about the project, right, a Croatian greenhouse which, somewhere around 7 million euros was a realization, small environments as a regional environment, also invest a lot in beekeepers, so we have to work on it, that's our priority, and we all need to stand up for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37488	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Among other things, you told your colleague Ivanovic how unfair commercial practices are, and unfair competition has a devastating impact on all sectors in agriculture, as well as on the area related to honey and beekeeping, and last week we discussed how important it is to bring about adequate legislation that reflects certain political commitment to end such practices. I agree with you, there are often discussions here that are more or less... So it was discussed also about the sugar sector where it was also pointing at one option that it was agreed to close sugars, without realistically seeing how many policies they had decided on quotas in 2012 actually conditioned the further course of this unfortunate sugar story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37490	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37491	Thank you very much. I'll start with this last one, and I was talking about it the last time, that's the problem. We have a man who ran the Ministry of Agriculture in those years that you were talking about and your father cost the Croatian state 68 million kn because he didn't respect the law, but nothing, it's someone else. But when HDZ is of course guilty of everything in this country. And so is the one who works, of course, that he can at some point make a mistake, but that's why we make laws like this so that we don't make mistakes. The law on unfair commercial practices is certainly something that will be the basis for such things not to happen in the future. Minister Vukkovic is making a great effort when it comes to agriculture, and in a few hours we will discuss amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act, which again wants to go hand in hand to small producers. Therefore, I think that we should ignore these stories "we, you, them", one is Croatia, and one is Croatian producers who must be equally respected and protected on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37492	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37493	Dear Parliamentarian, the fact that we like to highlight the quality of our honey is really good, but it is also a fact that over the last 10 years, practically drastic changes in the quality of habitats, or simply these bees pastures are kind of devastated, mainly on agricultural surfaces because they are shrinking all green surfaces, lawns, or thicker, reeds, etc., all are brought to monocultures so that we have cases that some surfaces that are sunflowered with sunflowers, beekeepers simply don't bring their hives, their food, is simply a sunflower not honey, these are facts and I really don't know how to protect that biodiversity and thus the quality of honey and the quantity in the final honeys of our... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37494	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37495	Thank you very much. Of course this isn't a separate island, it's a lot of parameters that affect how much honey we're going to produce, how beekeepers are going to even enter the pasture with their bees, therefore, this is one wider platform that should actually open these things that you were talking about. Beekeepers themselves cannot survive with all bees, they must have settled conditions and preconditions. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture takes care of it and should take care of it but it is also important to the regional and local self-government. In part, what was said about the cataster is certainly true and there is no speech, books have to be arranged and arranged, but I am sure that local self-government leaders with their producers can do much with their beekeepers to make the production better and the quality of honey better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37496	Next replica, the esteemed representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37497	Thank you very much. Here you are talking about unfair trade practices, about honey branding, I'm only interested in your opinion right now, do our consumers have here when we talk about Slavonia, about Slavonia honey, developed awareness of consumption, or buying produced honey by our OPGs, or people who are dealing with honey production, or maybe reforming the question, whether they buy in sufficient quantities that honey or are more prone to buy suspicious qualities in some trade chains and what is it to do for us, to promote, to brand further products made from honey on our local OPGs who do our beekeepers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37498	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37499	Thank you very much. If our beekeepers adopted the techniques used here by individual parliamentary representatives to get to small screens, how to get to the portal, it would certainly be much, much more successful. Education, advertising is something without what you're talking about, and it's data that don't go to beekeepers, we come to the goal of making one product, one brand like this Slavonic honey, but then, after that, we stop, we don't invest enough in advertising and promotion of that product, and we're certainly losing the race, so much more must be invested in, or in marketing or without it, there's no increased production, and then there's no increase in sales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37500	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zeljko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37501	Thank you, well-respected chairman and secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. This one with joy I can tell you that I've been up for a long time, maybe seven to eight years. In my youth, I was a beekeeper, I came up to 17 hives, and it's a remarkable thing, and I studied a lot of things, I was successful, I sold honey, and I sold it before the war. The war ended it all. So I can tell myself that I've learned a lot about bees and beekeeping, especially honey. The art is to deal with beekeeping, it requires great effort, love, and bees also return it, it's life for themselves, it fertilizes. However, there is a lot to be invested in, a lot of knowledge, a terrible amount of knowledge and learning, we have good, good textbooks, good professors and experiences. The problem has been lately, in fact it was in '82, '3rd, '4th, '5th, a great monster appeared that bee keeper Varroa who greatly decimated all of our bee communities and those drugs that were then used were very expensive at 100 marks for cca. Ten bones in one treatment. These were from abroad, somehow we don't know how we were coming to them, it doesn't exactly seem to me in Yugoslavia the normal way, but the problem is that these drugs had and they were certain, they were clear recommendations that they could leave these unwanted residuals, they had this one bad effect of whether they were either evaporating or smoking. Now, as a conscious beekeeper, and all of us have been told by young people that we have to do everything to make honey really useful, which for little children, which for the old ones as a cure, as a conscious beekeeper we have always taken care of, especially if it was preventatively treated against the terrible diseases of American decay, there are antibiotics, it's always said when you treat antibiotics not in that honey, you have to know when you're being treated, when you're saving society, the community can't cross a certain period because these sugar cakes, sugar in, in this milk, in that liquid you have to be eaten by the spring, you can't be mixed with the first pasture with the meadow, with this bage, later this one with, with all these chestnuts that come in, and then you have real honey and experienced people know it. What remains of the problem, do not enter any urban beekeeping. Urban beekeeping is a problem, so he is, imagine honey in the urban beekeeping in Zagreb a lot of heavy metals, a lot of evil all kinds of things, so the goal is to go somewhere on the Slavonic fields, here as far as Sljeme, Podslljeme, Zagorje ours where there is no pollution. What urban, so who are you going to recommend urban honey produced by urban honey? That sounds nice, but it's no use, though, running away from it as far away as possible. Secondly, in conflict, we are farmers and winemakers, at the same time I am a winemaker, with beekeepers because we need to spray vineyards, and bees come to the flower of the vines. Our periods are 14 days and these are insecticides where to protect the vine you have to use a terrible insecticide of all kinds of crickets, American ones, this one not to say the rest of these... that all that come, and bees are about. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There we should, we know, the winemakers are educated, educate us or pay for it and every year we know how to deal with pesticides consciously, and of course we do, but we need that something and beekeepers to say, so don't come to the pasture at that time when this or near the vineyards this area is a disaster, because it's a disaster in itself, so that your heart breaks when you pass with the sink, and you see that your bees are flying, you know that someone's missing, and then somehow we're getting somewhere. It's basically good, it can be money, but it takes a lot of education. These 150 associations extend maximum, include all and these beekeepers educate, and let citizens also run as far away from liquid honey as possible. The real honey is the one that crystallises, and unfortunately the Croatian public And he doesn't know. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37502	We've got replicas of two, the first distinguished representative of Mariana Petrir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37503	Thank you very much. Here's a distinguished colleague of Sacic's, it's good to hear the experience of a bee-keeping person because you have once again highlighted what is extremely important, and this is an important role of the bee in the production chain, in the pollination, in connection with agriculture and the need for mutual balance and respect, but you have importantly apostrophysed the problem that is happening with medicines. I would therefore like to stress that we have raised this problem to a European level and asked the European Commission to finance in fact the finding of a new drug with its means that would be in the function of preserving wild bees because, as you have mentioned, we cannot always bring about welfare. So I am pleased that the European Commission has accepted this proposal and I hope that we will soon have the opportunity to develop such a medicine to benefit our beekeepers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37504	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37505	Yes, thank you very much, I'm looking forward to it because we came to the wall for a while, it didn't know, it took a great scientific, great effort for scientists to point out only.../incomprehensible/... because these were major side effects. I'm glad that they took that step and it's perspective, and now for the rest of it it's on the conscience and we need to know, no one, for the sake of economic benefit unfortunately some beekeeper goes over the border and goes to treat antibiotics or goes natural honey mixed that the bee processed to survive it doesn't, or doesn't separate it or in any other way this mixes it with that first pasture or even that's not good. But that's up, we have to educate people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37506	Next replica, Honorary Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37507	Thank you. Dear fellow Sacic I think that almost all beekeepers in Croatia have become beekeepers out of love, we do not have honey industry and honeymaking. I think all people started with a couple of hives, fell in love with it, and then they upgraded some to more, some to less, and this is the topic you should be talking about right now, the ones you were dealing with in beekeeping. I didn't answer much in this subject because I don't have the experience. But when we talk about urban beekeeping, it does not mean just beekeeping in Zagreb. My neighbor in Kutina, in my street where there are also agricultural areas, has several hives that help all of us farmers in the fertilization of cultures that we grow, and here we take care of each other to look after these bees because they help us, and this conscience needs to be built in people, but I think that science about beekeeping has been little in Croatia, lagging behind and not following enough trends that are happening in Croatia on beekeeping.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37508	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37509	Yes, thank you very much. Indeed, this one in Croatia as we had the opportunity to hear, 7,000 tonnes when you multiply it minimally means you can't find between cheaper, more correct, good, high-quality 50 kunas in the rural area now. So cca 60 kuna is that bottle of a pound of honey, so multiply that, that's, we produce it means these people are sort of professionally, which is out of a hobby, there's 420, over 400 million kuna coming in, thank God. And as for, and that's good, and as far as these attempts are concerned, look, you need to be careful, there you can't in your yard even here in the suburban part of the Sub-Sljemen, Markushevec hold this hive, that when 10 hives start, it's, it's swarms, it's people are afraid of neighbors. And those bees know the master, but they don't know the neighbor, and they don't know me if I'm nervous. So you know what kind of bees to approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37510	Okay, thank you, so we could bring bees to pee here when we're nervous. Final debate on behalf of the promoter, Honored Secretary of State Tugomir Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37511	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians, esteemed parliamentary representatives, thank you for the comprehensive debate on the amendments and additions of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals. I will repeat once again the basic settings of this law, but I will address the amendments and the addition of the law, but I will also answer a part of the question, i.e. the concerns and comments that have been raised today. Therefore, above all, the analysis of the current normative framework assessed the need to further improve this part of the legislation in the beekeeping sector where it is prescribed that gray bees are grown in the Republic of Croatia. However, it is not prescribed that the conditions of the breeding of the grey bee, which is our original breed, bees are additionally governed by the regulation. The provision of the law stipulates that the registry of queen growers is run by the Ministry of Agriculture while in the previous period prior to the entry into force of this law it was prescribed that the recognised breeding society runs a register of queen breeders. Since the law stipulates that the conditions of entry in the register are laid down by a recognised breed society in this case in a single one, but allows all associations which are issued by the basis of the prescribed procedure of the Ministry of Agriculture and to be approved, therefore, which verify them on the ground in accordance with these legal amendments propose that the registry of queen breeders be managed by a recognised breeding society. The basic objective of amending and supplementing the law is also to provide a legal basis for defining the conditions of breeding and protecting the original grey bee. To enable a recognised breeding association I say in the single law, but in practice it is possible to define it in the plural if more breeding associations are to appear. Keeping a register of queen growers and regulating the operational implementation of pasture operations. As for the gift I received today, thank Mr. Zekanovic for the same. As regards the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate under the Consumer Information Act, the State Inspectorate or Sanitary Inspectorate is responsible for the supervision of all products of food origin, and we have already informed the competent institutions about what Mr Zekanovic today commented at the Croatian Assembly. Also, regarding the protection of our agricultural food products in this case of honey, here is official information that, as some esteemed representatives have pointed out, Slavonic honey is protected. Slavonski honey is protected at the level of seven types of honeys, therefore the process includes Zagorje bagrem honey, so in the registration process, Istrian honey and Dalmatian honey. We want all of them and registration, i.e. to find a way to both Croatian markets and the common EU and other markets. So this was also one promotion of all these honeys with an emphasis on Slavonic honey where most of the beekeepers were involved in the protection process and where they therefore voluntarily showed a desire to protect this honey, and they are heading towards the establishment of a producer organisation, which will be an additional motive to further position themselves on the market. As for the međimurje beekeepers themselves and the bee-marine, this amount of one million kuna, of course, is underestimating what is needed at this time, but it is not yet enough and we will allow through the rural development programme 5.2.1. measure all those who are, which have occurred, a certain period of natural, or natural disasters, including disasters, to apply to this measure or thus compensation for damaged objects or plants. And speaking of disaster, that was also one question asked, so at this point in the Banovina area, the Ministry of Agriculture directly contacted over 4.5 thousand agricultural holdings, most of them also visited, and the damage was estimated at the level of about 2,000 economic facilities. As far as the 318 units of machinery of agricultural and agricultural equipment are concerned, over 100 hectares, including the same number and agricultural holdings, have also hit this disaster on agricultural surfaces. How the Ministry of Agriculture is further supporting these agricultural economies, above all cattle holdings, in order to stop the trend of stagnation, therefore, production in this area, and we can say that we are doing it successfully. First of all, we have provided at this time 1100 tonnes of food, cattle food delivered to agricultural holdings in the Banovina area, those injured units of local self-government within 2 warehouses in Glina and Petrinja. This warehouse is under the supervision of a veterinary inspection. In this regard, all these goods, or livestock, are properly donated, or delivered to, agricultural holdings. On the other hand, we have secured the purchase of cattle in these areas, if there are surpluses, in the first days there have been certain shifts of cattle at the request of the owner, now the cattle are returning to the area of Banovina, Pokuplje, Pounja and part of Posavina and the Ministry of Agriculture directly participating in this cattle return, and with certain units of regional self-government we are working on the restoration of the livestock fund, I point out an example of Vukovar-Srijem County related to the reconstruction of the livestock fund in pig farming. Here, these are all measures to keep the stock fund on one side, and on the other hand to stimulate the development and multiplication of these throats. I'm going back to this part of the damaged bee communities. Over 7,000 bee communities died in this earthquake. Here, for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37512	Thank you. We have two replicas, the distinguished representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37513	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. How many persons in the bodies of breeders of selected queens of the bees of Croatia and their immediate family have received funds from paying agencies in agriculture, fisheries and rural development in the last 5 years from the National beekeeping programme for the renewal of the bee fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37514	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37515	This way from the head, based on this information that I can't tell you, I can't answer your question, but we can provide you with an answer to this question through our financial institutions or implementing bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37516	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37517	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned the distribution of food in the Banovina area, so I spent a lot of time there myself, and I came across a series of inconveniences where the OPGs tell me that they come to... The day they're invited to come for food, come, there's no food for them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a serious problem, and on the other hand, two even families complained that they didn't even know where their cattle were moved. They called the Ministry of Agriculture and they didn't get their answer to the questions, so here, please get... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37518	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37519	Thanks for asking. So as far as food is concerned, I'm going to repeat the 1,100 tonnes of food that has already been delivered to over 3,400 addresses of agricultural holdings in this area, that is, this figure that we have officially available. All food is recorded by donors who donate food, including state and public institutions, and if, above all, the register of farmers or the unique register of domestic animals is not registered according to the criteria. In the field of field reconnaissance, the Ministry of Agriculture confirms that the holding has cattle and is then delivered to it by cattle. So, that's cattle food. So, the system works for moving cattle, we have 2 farms on which cattle are moved, and if it's not about private moving, and all the data on these locations is available through the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37520	Thank you. Here, we've completely exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're going to take a break for the winding up 15 minutes to, we're going to continue at 12 and 40. It's 12.26 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.43 HOURS]] The next item is: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 95 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Tugomir Majdak Here you go. [[Intruder: Stanka, request a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37523	Dear Vice-President, I request a break on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club for 10 minutes in order to re-establish the shortcomings of the Agriculture Act itself or the unconstitutional nature of certain articles. So today, we have before us a decision of the Constitutional Court of 20 October, which has been coordinated or two articles have been declared unconstitutional, but there are still a number of provisions or articles of the Agriculture Act itself that remain unconstitutional. Therefore, they are not in particular in accordance with Article 19(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which guarantees judicial control of the legality of individual acts of the administrative authorities and bodies which have public authority which are not enabled by the provisions of the Agriculture Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37524	Thank you. Do we have any further requests for a break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37525	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club for 10 minutes because today we're talking about a vital topic of food donation. Namely, as we all know well, Croatia has been affected by even two disasters, leading to significant poverty for its citizens. In such a situation, the food donation system, but also its regulation within this law, shows one of the key mechanisms that could prevent further poverty from our citizens. However, when we look at what is changed by this law, in particular Article 28, which is referred to in Article 81 of the existing law, then we see that there is no further progress in what is announced in the earlier decision of the Government of 2019, which is the plan and implementation of this food donation plan, the establishment of a food bank where the study of food waste is as much as in Croatia, how much of the escape waste of that waste that we could prevent, how to connect distributors with end-users. We have not realised this plan that the government has previously implemented in practice, and now we are introducing new legal provisions that are going towards the fact that we may just have to work on a plan to bring food donations into life in Croatia. I will remind myself that 400,000 tonnes of food are being thrown into the EU annually, and in Croatia, 400,000 tonnes of food and 88 million tonnes in the EU. If we want to save the impoverished citizens of Croatia, we must urgently deal with food banks and a better quality food donation system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37526	Next request for a break, distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37527	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Please pause on behalf of Club Center and GLAS for 10 minutes. So we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act. It is an extremely important law and extremely important topics that are defined here. Therefore, in the context of this too, it would be good for the Minister of Resort to be here with us, it would be good for the Minister of Resort to explain or give the opening part and that we can ask her some of the things we intend to ask. So what it is, the fundamental theme is this, among other things, the subject of this law, is the adoption of a support programme for projects that bring prevention and reduction of waste from food. We already have one or more plans that have already been adopted for the period from 2019 to 2022, so it would be convenient to know what has been realized from that plan, whether at least a guide has been created which, which will be dealt with a certain problem. What did that guide define that we already have? So, we've been passing some laws of change and complements all the time, and we don't have a chance to talk and hear what's been realized so far. Is it a realized guide, which is, we have a problem at all in our space, which is what Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ said to her colleague, what about the bank? This bank is, the food bank is already foreseen in 2019 that it was a pilot project, so we are now in 2021. In conclusion, it is an extremely important law. It is a law that should also be seen in the context of the next recovery and resilience plan, so it would be good to establish a link between this law and that plan which is, who the Jets are all talking about but no one has seen it and it would be good if the Minister of Justice was with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37528	Thank you. The next proposal to explain the break is the distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would ask you to take a 10 minute break for the HDZ Club of Representatives to further underline that these are technical amendments to the laws that are absolutely necessary because the Agricultural Law is a fundamental law and these amendments aim to improve the system of functioning and the Ministry of Agriculture as well as the common organisation of the market. It is also well known that there is a plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from food already mentioned here, that it is taught by the Agriculture Act, that 200 tonnes of food has been donated so far, and that it has been produced as guides to reduce the production of food waste, because it is part of our obligations that we have in accordance with the green plan, in accordance with the circular economy that is propagated by the EU. Today in Croatia, 75 kg of food waste per capita is produced annually and with all these measures that are foreseen by the Agriculture Act, we want to bring this problem down to the lowest possible minimum. It should also be pointed out that according to the State Statistics Institute's report, there are positive developments in agriculture for 2020 compared to the previous 2019, so the value of production of the activity is higher by € 1.27 billion and 7% respectively, which is a significant shift. We also grew in plant production, grew in livestock, increased exports, decreased imports and deficits, and all of these positive shifts in the difficult circumstances in which we are, show that we have reasons for optimism and that this is one incentive for strong reforms in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37530	Time. Since we've come to a break now, I suggest we proceed immediately if you agree because we were at the break. Yes, thank you. Secretary of State, come in. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37531	Art. In 238, a colleague of Petir defied parliamentary MPs by saying that it was only technical changes, which means that the debate was too high and overlooked to remind that the Faculty of Economics in Rijeka had offered to the Ministry a study of the conductability of the food bank and had never taken place in its realization, which was mentioned in the plan, just as a study of refugee waste had not been done, which was also a recommendation for competent institutions and without it, the debate was impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37532	This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, which is why you're getting a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He's been injured. 238, because my colleague Selak Rasdic is interpreting something I didn't say at all. She, in the manner of visible Milan, wants to promote her thesis here as something which is a fruit of our thinking, our thinking differs, we believe that the plan that exists should be implemented, it is implemented, it is donated 200 tons of food, it should go more strongly through the guides made for households and the catering sector and industry, we need to reduce the waste of food in primary production, which is a serious problem and we are going to do so in the work and legislative legislation that we discussed last week as well as through this Agriculture Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37534	Time. And this was a replica to you, so you also get a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37535	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You can give me a heads-up right now, but I suggest we take a break by 1, you have a free speech and then we can have the Agriculture Act behind that, that the secretary of state has these 20 minutes as it should, that we go along with the replicas, and that we do it in continuity. I think it would be more operational and better, you can give me a warning but I didn't have another model to suggest it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37536	Okay, I'm not gonna give you a warning, you're right, I'm just asking if we're gonna take a break, no one's responding. So I have no reason to warn you, we will take a break by 1 hour only we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37537	Art. 238, although fellow Petyr probably insulted more visible Milan by comparing it with me than vice versa, we don't even know how much the use of funds for the needs of the procurement and distribution of donated food of FEAD was strengthened in Croatia, which was also announced by this plan, we don't know anything about food banks, we only list the facts that we needed, which we needed to be delivered to do in these as you like to say, technical changes to the Agriculture Act. Donating food...... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37538	Your second warning because this was a replica, you're aware of that. Did I get it right? This is the third? And then you accordingly... In this agenda point, I think, is it a second or a third? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The second is this item of the agenda, the second is a reminder. Now we're going to take a five-minute break and then we're going to take a stand and then we're going to continue as suggested on this agenda point. MEETING IN 12.55 HOURS Now we're moving on to the starting point of the agenda. I'd like the Honorable Secretary of State, Tugomir Majdak, to address the opening. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37540	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Vice-President of Parliament's MPs, respected gentlemen of Parliament. The Agriculture Act shall, above all, regulate the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, rules relating to the common organisation of the agricultural market, promotion information measures, rules on strong alcoholic beverages, provisions on food including national Codex Alimentarius, quality requirements for food and food for animals, prevention of food waste and provisions on mineral spring and table water. Furthermore, the law regulates the system and quality of agricultural food products, including organic production, consultation and education of farmers, agricultural databases and administrative control, field controls and administrative inspection of the implementation of this law. The proposed amendments and additions to the current act in force will ensure the implementation of the decision of the Croatian Constitutional Court on the harmonisation of national legislation with the new acquis. We also propose to improve certain existing normative solutions that have proved to be inadequate as well as nomotechnical amendment of the text. Amendments and additions to the current Agricultural Act shall provide for a legal framework for the adoption of the Agriculture Strategy as a strategic plan act of national importance covering the area of agriculture and rural development, for the adoption of the Strategy of the Bioeconomy and other acts of strategic planning for the implementation of the agricultural policy. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is in its decision of 20 October 2020. the suspension of the Article. Article 15(4) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 is replaced by the following: 67th century 2 of the current Agricultural Act currently in force on 1 March 2021. Respecting the cited decision and the legal understanding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia by amending and supplementing the current Law on Agriculture for users of agricultural policy measures, it is possible to file a complaint against the decisions of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development in the administrative procedure as well as to file a complaint to the competent administrative court against a solution which has been decided on the appeal. This ensures clear, predictable and effective judicial protection of the rights of users in implementing agricultural policy measures. Part of the internal market organisation measures introduces a legal framework for the adoption of a specific programme of support at national level to promote Croatian agriculture and food products in the milk, meat, fruit and vegetables sectors, honey, eggs, olives, olives, flour, sugar and in the aquaculture sector. Furthermore, the possibility of abolishing the authorisation of legal persons to carry out the classification and labelling of bovine, pig and sheep carcases in the event of non-compliance with the conditions and obligations to carry out those tasks shall be prescribed. The requirements of placing products on the market in the fruit and vegetables sector are also more regulated. The text of the Regulation on the rules for producer organisations has also been amended in a way that norms the possibility of a solution to amend and supplement the list of products for which the producer organisation is recognised. The legal solution so far did not provide for the possibility for producer organisations to recognise in the fruit and vegetable sector or to amend and supplement the list of products for which they have been recognised and for which the need has been shown in practice. In the field of rules on alcoholic beverages, the coordination and implementation of the new Union Regulation as set out in 2019 have been carried out. Following the above, the procedure for the recognition of new markings in all its covers has been prescribed. A prior national procedure shall be introduced in the registration procedure for geographical indications of strong alcoholic beverages. In order to be able to use new codes in the EU, a detailed registration procedure at EU level is prescribed in which the Ministry of Agriculture provides the European Commission with documentation to obtain the geographical indication of strong alcoholic beverages and participates in the communication of the European Commission with the applicant. The procedure for amending the product specification for registered geographical indications of strong alcoholic beverages is also regulated. The obligation to register in the register of users of protected geographical indications of strong alcoholic beverages introduced by the Ministry of Agriculture, the registration and erasure procedure and the keeping of that register shall be prescribed. For the purpose of weather harmonisation with the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the exploitation and placing on the market of natural mineral waters in the part in which natural spring waters are to be placed on the market, the name natural spring water used in the current law is to be changed to source water. In the area of food waste prevention, it is necessary to transpose the relevant provisions of the EU Waste Directive. The following definitions define the concept of food waste, the objectives and obligations of the plan to prevent and reduce food waste, as well as the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of these measures. A legal person shall be established to adopt a support programme for projects contributing to the prevention and reduction of food waste for the purpose of implementing a plan to prevent and reduce food waste for the purpose of implementing a plan to prevent and reduce food waste, with a view to encouraging research work and innovative solutions that contribute to the prevention and reduction of food waste. In order to improve the food donation system, a legal basis is established for the adoption of a support scheme for food donors in the food donation chain and/or the food bank. The deadline for the transposition of the Waste Directive into the national legal system has expired and the Republic of Croatia has received a letter of formal notification of injury due to the non-notifying of the European Commission of the transposition of the quoted directive into national legislation. In the area of quality arrangements for agricultural and food products, the applicant for the protection of the name in the national procedure, protection of the name of agricultural and food products as a protected designation of origin, protected geographical indication or traditional speciality guaranteed shall be more clearly defined. A legal basis shall also be established for the adoption of a solution for the abolition of transitional national protection and a procedure for amending the product specification for which the national quality system designation is recognised. In order to ensure continuity of the work of the control body, the possibility of a provisional decision on the authorisation of a delegated body in the event of re-authorisation shall be prescribed if the procedure for the renewal of the accreditation of the delegated body is ongoing. For the purpose of administrative discharge of the control body, the obligation to issue a conviction on the conformity of each production phase with the product specification at the request of the participants in the chain of production, processing and placing on the market of products marked with a protected name shall be prescribed. In order to comply with the provisions of the relevant EU Regulation of 2007. the concept of a control body is replaced by the concept of a declassified body. In the field of organic production, minor changes and nomotechnical addition of the existing text provide for greater clarity and legal framework to ensure the implementation of the new EU organic production regulation and labelling of organic products, this Regulation is set out in 2018. Changes are particularly not related to exemptions to the rules applicable in organic production. In the area of defining the information system of agriculture, electronic databases, the production of data is normably redefined by the electronic agricultural card and provides a legal framework for its wider application, which will allow the digitisation of business processes and full electronic support for all users of rural development measures, as well as the electronic use of other services for farmers. This will ultimately result in the administrative discharge of farmers and systems as a whole. The normative interventions shall be governed by agricultural reporting and management systems in such a way as to specify in detail the process of data exchange from all databases, registers, registers, records in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agency for Payment and Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. This creates assumptions for the effective implementation of the information system of agriculture. The possibility of accessing data from the agriculture ministry database to third parties in the form of private entities is expanded and the public data from the farmer's register is provided in order to increase transparency and control of public money and to monitor the state of agriculture. The register of orchards and olive groves currently being kept as unofficial records of the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development is normally arranged. Amendments and additions to the current Agricultural Act shall provide for the possibility of submitting a legal remedy against the solution of agricultural inspection and shall be appropriate to comply with provisions relating to the work and the area of control of competent inspections in the field of agriculture, livestock farming, strong alcoholic beverages, food quality and donated food with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act. Finally, the proposed law will ensure proper harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the EU, as well as a substantive improvement of the text of the existing law as a whole and the introduction of new normative solutions and nomotechnical added-on and corrections to certain non-compliant legal provisions. This improves and simplifies the current framework for the implementation of the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, and also improves the consistency of the current legal framework, which in the broadest sense regulates the area of agriculture and agricultural policy. The proposed law ultimately allows for clearer and.../incomprehensible/... handling of competent authorities and a transparent way of handling and a better and more efficient system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37541	Eh, we have 15, 16 replicas, the first distinguished representative is Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37542	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, when we talk about a plan to prevent and reduce the production of food waste in the Republic of Croatia from 2019 to 2021, which aims to halve that quantity by 2030, what is the situation now in the Republic of Croatia from 2019 to 2012 if you have information in tones as we stand. And second, in order to become as aware as possible as a society that food waste should be reduced, education should be carried out from the youngest age. I think there's still too little work to do, but there's only a little bit of video or sketch in the media. Whether education means kindergartens from the youngest age, also whether they organize workshops for adults, and I'm still going to donate food there too, I don't think it's enough, some stakeholders don't really have the advantages of donating food and what their tax benefits are, so I'm asking you to comment on people's education and information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37543	Thank you, here's a 2016 follow-up to the amount of donated food. The quantities of donated food on the rise and the example for 2019 were about a third higher than in 2018 and in 2019 1.517.140.99 kg of food was donated, and data for 2020 will soon be published. As regards themselves, the realisation of the programme itself, which, the plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from food that was adopted at the level of 2019. – In 2020, by decision of the Government in accordance with the guidelines for food donation in relation to the duration dates, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food together with the Ministry of Agriculture published a food donation guide intended for donors and food donors. Also a study on the conductability of the food bank in the Republic of Croatia
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37544	Next replica representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37545	If we had helped start a food bank in time, maybe the question I'm about to ask you and the current one was unnecessary. Namely, it is a matter of demand for transparent solidarity. We are aware that the area of Banovina has been particularly affected by the earthquake as an area which is also of particular national concern, in that sense, my question is, do you have any information on how much food is available for humans, but also on livestock food donated during this time after the earthquake, how it is stored and where the surpluses are distributed that have a short period of time, and which exceeds the needs of the domicile population? I am afraid that it does not respect the system of transparent solidarity that controls the current donations in Banovina and that we could witness soon both ecological and moral disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37546	Thanks for asking. Within the civil protection headquarters, the Red Cross component is in charge of food distribution. As regards food for livestock feeding or livestock feeding 1,100 tonnes has been provided so far and divided into farming holdings of the livestock type, or still the food arrives in two warehouses in Glina and Petrinja. The warehouses are also in line with all health correct criteria and this confirms the results of inspections that have recently carried out the supervision of this warehouse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37547	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marina Opaček Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37548	Thank you. State Secretary, since the Ministry of Agriculture missed the deadline for the transposition of the directive in the area of food waste prevention, that deadline was also received on 5 July 2020, which was also a reminder from the European Commission, I would ask you to give information on how it is actually going now, given these circumstances, the implementation of the plan for preventing and reducing the production of food waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37549	Thank you. Here before your question I have answered as part of the previous questions, we have also, it is worth adding that we have reported the whole project on food donation for the national programme of recovery and resilience in amount, the total amount of 40 million kuna and that through this project we will finance and complete the production and operation of the food bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37550	The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37551	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here in today's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agriculture Act, I welcome it in the article. 11th introduction of a new programme for the promotion of Croatian agricultural and food products, which will provide additional promotion of Croatian products, and this morning we heard how many, how many protected Croatian products are there and this is certainly commendable. Can you tell me in more detail how this programme will be implemented and how much funding will be spent in this programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37552	Thank you. As regards your question for the promotion of Croatian agricultural and food products, the proposal to amend and supplement the Agriculture Act also defines art. 11th introducing Art. 46.a. enabling the development of a programme for the promotion of agricultural and food products from the Republic of Croatia. After the election of amendments and additions to this law, we will approach the development of these programmes and define the financial framework, but they will certainly contribute to further promotion of Croatian food products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37553	Thank you very much. Let's go to the next line, distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37554	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The amendments and additions of the Agricultural Act stipulates that the final recipient of food is a socially endangered person, a person affected by natural disasters or natural disasters, which makes it likely to be necessary for the donor in the food donation chain, and a non-profit legal person who provides accommodation or nutrition services to the protagonists of his facility other than the soup kitchens. My question is what are the reasons why the soup kitchens are excluded, and what is the situation today regarding the storage and distribution of donated food, you have said little about it, and what are the activities of the Ministry for the improvement of donations and easier availability of food to social self-services?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37555	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37556	Thank you. As far as soup kitchens are concerned, they are considered intermediaries in the food donation chain that collects food from donors intended for the final recipient of food. As regards the issues related to the donation or delivery of food in Banovina, I said that the constituent civilian headquarters, the Red Cross regularly and professionally, according to all health criteria, is delivering food to the most needy and the victims and the current supplies are slightly less or less than the amount of food delivered, at this point slightly smaller than what was issued in the part of the livestock food, thus approaching 1000 tonnes, and in terms of livestock food, that is 1,100 tonnes at this point. And as for the very implementation of our plan to prevent food waste, I have already reported through previous answers to what stage we are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37557	Time. Thank you very much. We continue with the replicas, distinguished representative Nikolina Baradić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37558	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with the co-worker. This law also provides for the adoption of a strategy for agriculture. I believe it is really necessary to adopt a new strategy since it was last adopted in 2002. So my question is, do you have any information on the Ministry's plans to adopt this strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37559	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37560	Thanks for asking. So a draft agricultural strategy has been developed, also a strategic study on the impact of the strategy on the environment and the ecological network, and they will also be referred to the agriculture strategy and strategic study in e-consultation after the previous procedure at the Ministry of Agriculture. Through this strategy, the aim is to reach the level of agricultural production in the 10th year. Only one of those goals I point out is 30 billion kuna. For the time being, the production trend, i.e. the final output of agricultural production, is compared to 2019. According to the second assessment of the State Statistics Office in 2020, This output is going to rise to 19.2 billion is going to increase by 7%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37561	Thank you very much. The next replica is the distinguished representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37562	I thank the esteemed vice president. Dear Secretary of State, last year you pointed out that there is room for sugar beet production in the future, and that the goal is to keep and increase the surface area under the sugar tail. What irony. Also, in cooperation with the Croatian sugar industry and farmers, it will define how to successfully meet the challenges this production has at EU and world level. So this way I ask you, what has been done to repair the damage done to sugar beet producers, what are the objectives of the sector's development, what is the plan to help workers who have lost their jobs after decades of work? What sector is next for reckless decisions and similar problems, and how long do you intend to run Croatian agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37563	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37564	Thanks for asking. Not entering the 2014 disputed decisions As regards sugar quotas, therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture is 2019. a new national programme or programme of support to sugar beet producers at a level per hectare, so at a level of up to 2,500 kuna to sugar beet producers, on the other hand, production-related payments are at a level of 3,300 kuna per hectare, on the third hand through communication with producers with industry, we also plan on agri-environmental measures for sugar beet producers to increase the current production level or campaign that is under way for the sowing of sugar beet next year from 10,500 kuna on a sustainable form for engines that we have in operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37565	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37566	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice-President and Mr Secretary of State. The year was extremely difficult, it was marked by the COVID crisis and after we saw the data from the State Statistics Institute, we can say that there are positive developments. I'm curious, do you think it's a coincidence or can we expect such trends to continue in agriculture? On the other hand, we know that we have 5 billion euros available for the next seven-year period, which we need to use and spend in a smart way for the sake of Croatian villages and for the development of our agriculture. The obligation is to draw up a strategic plan for this seven-year period within the framework of the common agricultural policy, in addition to the strategies I hear, in the phase of adoption. I want to know what stage this plan is in, and what stage is programming, because we know that there were the most problems and the consequences will be long-term if we make a mistake?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37567	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37568	Thank you. This latest positive trend in agricultural production according to the second assessment of the State Statistics Institute of 7% encourages, encourages both on the other hand and the increase in livestock numbers related to the same period that is 0.3% at the level of bovine animals at 1.5%, at the level of sheep and goats 5-5.5%, so all trends are positive. On the other hand, and our actions that the ministry has programmed in the last 4 years have contributed to this positive trend, on the third hand, as regards the strategic plan, as part of a new common agricultural policy that will guarantee the quality of EU funds, we have developed the first version, we are waiting for the EU directives including the implementation directive, waiting for the completion of the trilogues related to the common agricultural policy to continue work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37569	Thank you. Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37570	Thank you, dear vice president. Dear Secretary of State, according to the information we have, none of Croatia participates in the European Food Bank Association. Can you tell us anything about that, do you... Food donors to co-operate with this association? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And speaking of strategy, remind me, the strategy is being adopted for a period of 20. 2020-2030, so I wonder if we'll bring the 2022 strategy from 2020 to 2030? [[Majdak raid: 10 years.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37571	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37572	Regularly, the Ministry of Agriculture, through its representatives, participates in all EU discussions and conferences on the common agricultural policy, as well as on this problem of preventing food waste. Here and I personally participated several times but also on the AGRIFISH Council I had a position on the same. We definitely participate in all EU levels when discussing its problems with the common agricultural policy. As regards the strategy itself, the strategy is adopted for a period of 10 years 2020-2030 with all its objectives, indicators or monitoring indicators and for this period there are clear indicators which will then be monitored and there will be no reason to review it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37573	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37574	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we have a plan to prevent and reduce the production of food waste from the Republic of Croatia, which is from 2019 to 2022. A large part of these amendments to the law apply to what and how should we have a new plan but what I'm interested in is that and I think it should have been explained why we're going to change and supplement this law, which has been done so far? What's happened so far? Because we also have a guide that says that the problem that needs to be processed is the redistribution of excess food through the national food donation system. What is the national system, do we have it, how it works, what is with the food bank, when it's real to do it, and it should also be looked at in the context of the sustainability and recovery plan that we have to deliver to the commission that must then be analysed and around 37% of that plan should be related to some green policies. If it's about green policies, it's a priority. So what's been done so far? [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37575	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37576	Thank you. As part of the implementation of this measure, the implementation of this measure is based on a plan to prevent and reduce the production of food waste from 2019 to 2020, and the implementation of the IT food donation system called E-donation, which facilitates and accelerates the redistribution of food surpluses and enables better communication between donors and intermediaries. We have further facilitated the food donation process through the new rules on food donation by establishing rules on food donation and food for animals, the National Journal of 2019. Also, according to the food donation guidelines compared to the duration dates, we have defined the reliefs for the donated food until the last day of the food run out and it is possible to donate food after the expiry of the “best use” that is also donated. We did a study on the performance of the food bank and about the development of a new plan, so for the period from 2023 to 2026, that the production would begin in 2022 and I told you about the national recovery and resilience plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37577	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Mandaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37578	Thank you, dear vice president. Dear Secretary of State, since for many years there has been a trend of good figures in agricultural production, whether we are talking about tones, kilograms, liters, kunas, euros, however we look at it, we have had as a state of decline there from 2015, 2016, then there is growth despite visible significant areas of progress for me and in the areas of agricultural policy but also agricultural production, so here is your comment, how are your expectations for this year and for the following year, and how do you think these amendments of the law will contribute to further increasing our agricultural production?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37579	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37580	Thank you. Well, thanks for this comment that's been taking pictures of the situation for the past few years. As for the forecasts, it is ungrateful to bring them in because agriculture is an outdoor and more climate-related plant and an accident affecting the very result of our final product but according to the announcements related to the spring seed, it will mean that certain areas under wartime crops will increase under the stock fund. We will continue with our support measures including direct payments with all the structures of these direct payments, but also with rural development, a rural development programme in the transitional period of 2 years, we will continue with support measures, investment measures, or.../incomprehensible/... related to the throats or surface.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37581	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37582	Thank you, Vice President. Your honorary secretary of state, you spoke of quality labels. They are also useful for manufacturers, but also for buyers. For producers in terms of competitiveness, and the customer knows exactly what they have a guarantee of quality development, he knows what he buys. In general, I think that the quality label also has a positive impact on rural development, and we also have a measure of 3 rural development programmes that support it financially. I am interested in how many products at EU level Croatia has provided quality codes. We heard it in national and I wonder if you have information on the usability of measure 3 from the rural development programme as I said which really financial and up to 100% of the funding encourages the participation of producers in these quality systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37583	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37584	Thank you for asking, here are recently a whole range of products, Croatian food products protected by designations of geographical origin, which are marked by originality. We are currently at a level, on a scale of European countries among the 10 countries that protected their products with these tags, so we started the labelling in 2015. Therefore, 30 products bear this label, and 15 other products are in the national protection process and are ready for protection at EU level. As far as our national meaning is concerned, we define our national labelling in terms of proven quality, which is a name that will bear certain products according to standards to be defined by sublaws related to Croatian agricultural products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37585	Thank you very much. Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37586	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, through your exposure, we have heard everything that the legislation so far has contributed to the progress of agricultural production and we can conclude that 7% of agricultural production has been increased in the Republic of Croatia, so we have achieved all the measures and activities carried out through the current legal validity and external trade successes in the export of agricultural products by 7.2% of the external trade exchange, and this has been reduced by 27.6%. I think that these are clear indicators of the progress and actions of the Ministry of Agriculture towards farmers as well as all the measures that all the money invested through these measures to make agriculture stand and to go on its right path in order to make more exports than imports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37587	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37588	Thank you for your comment. So, if we look at the total, total trade exchange between the Republic of Croatia, it moves into the coverage of exports at 60%, while in agriculture for the first 11 months of last year it rose to 70%. Last year, and in 2019, the same level was 63%. So in this also segment of foreign trade, we record some progress, and these trends, we hope, by our measures, that we will keep those trends.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37589	Thank you. Next replica, Honorable representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37590	Thank you. I am interested in this change in the terminology that takes place with the 2009 Directive, can you explain, in fact, the difference between natural mineral water, between spring water which is no longer natural spring water and table water.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37592	In part, therefore, it means amending and supplementing the laws and in the part which prescribes the placing of natural spring waters on the market only the name natural spring water is replaced by the name source water. In other segments, there is no change in normisation or standard procedures for placing natural spring waters on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37593	Thank you. And the last replica of your opening presentation, the distinguished representative of Rose Wolf.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37594	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, following the situation on product declarations in our shops where certain products are actually seen to bear the label of a domestic product, and the declaration itself shows that the raw material that is inside this product is not domestic raw materials but comes from other countries, my question is whether we could by this law today, therefore by the Agriculture Act, influence such situations so that our domestic product is then made of domestic raw materials. I'll take, for example, the ticks on which the box stands clearly says "domestic noodles", but in the box there is meat or raw materials from Germany, and the packaging itself is from, say, Serbia. So it has nothing to do with the domestic product. Could this law have affected such circumstances?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37595	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37596	With regard to the registration of a particular product, which at national level at the EU level of a producer association or individuals applying such a labelling product must comply with strict rules. So also in the case of Dalmatian prosciutto and Slavonic honey, they adhered to all the criteria prescribed. For the purposes of marking the placing on the market of such products, a State inspection or sanitary inspection shall be responsible in the part of the implementation of those regulations. I must point out once again as last week when the Law on Official Controls and the New Law was here, the Veterinary Act that during the period of the beginning of the Covid crisis there were frequent irregularities, the application of irregularities to the Competition Protection Agency, which is also in charge of the implementation of the Law on the control of unfair commercial practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37597	Thank you very much, we have exhausted all the replicas you can place in your esteemed secretary of state. And we will continue the debates on behalf of the clubs but before that I want to ask, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? Dear Representative Marijana Petir, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37598	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, representative and representative. At the 10th session of the Committee held on 18 January 2021 we discussed the amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act, you have a full report on the Croatian Parliament's pages, and I will refer to the most important information from our session. It was then asked about how and sources of funding for the promotion of agricultural and food products, it was noted that the act should cover traditional practices in the production of strong alcoholic beverages, it was asked about the deadlines for the adoption of the Agriculture Strategy and the consistency of the act with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Information has been requested on the control and sale of products at a distance, sanctioning the sale of non-declarated products in catering facilities, experiences and total donated food, excluding folk cuisine from end-of-life food recipients, drawing up a plan for the prevention of waste from food and the transport of fruit and vegetables from border areas. It has been said that, in relation to European legislation, it is late in the adoption of laws and is asked about exemptions from the obligation to enrol in the Register of Environmental Entities. The importance of education in the application of the electronic agricultural card and the requested interpretation of the proposed definition of the self-supply holding, market standards, quality systems and their impact on the competitiveness of the producer and the reduction of imports is mentioned. Enquiries on the erasure of the system of the National Codex Alimentarius Committee, the availability of data from electronic databases and registers of farmers, the regulations relating to the national protection procedure of geographical indications and the need for nomotechnical processing of art. 45. The promoter replied that more than 200 tonnes of food has passed through the donation system, the plan to prevent food waste is in the works, the soup kitchens are not considered intermediaries in the food supply chain, the promotion of products will be financed from the state budget. The law is also in line with the decision of the Administrative Court and the European Regulation on organic production, whose application has been delayed. Education on the electronic agricultural card is planned and following an environmental impact assessment of the agricultural strategy, its adoption will follow. A large number of agricultural holdings are agriculture's main activity, which is the reason for the proposed definition of the self-supply agricultural holding. The law in the field of plant health regulates both the transport of fruit and vegetables from border areas and the designation ‘proven quality’ provides the national quality and traceability system of the product. In addition, this proposal provides for the possibility of additional national quality codes, thereby protecting them. After the debate, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture, Objections and Proposals shall be adopted to refer to the applicant in order to prepare a final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agriculture Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37599	Thank you, Mr. President of the Agriculture Committee. The next debate is, we're starting the debates on behalf of the clubs. The next one is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the distinguished representative Marijana Petir will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37600	... Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with co-worker, MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] The Agriculture Act is a fundamental law which will create the basis for the adoption of sectoral strategic documents and the very strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture, as well as documents that will make it clear that food donation activities, food waste prevention, quality system of agricultural and food products, information, promotion, consultation, education, data collection and reporting. These changes are necessary in order for the system to function better and today after the COVID experience of the crisis, I believe that we do not need to specifically explain to anyone how important agriculture is and that we need to pay attention to farmers who produce food for us because it is a matter of food production and the issue of national security. There were many challenges left in the agriculture sector because it is a clear sky factory but it encourages information from the State Statistics Office that assessed that agricultural activity in 2020 has reached the value of production of €19.2 billion. As observed in 2019, the value of agricultural production is by 7% higher. Plant production increased by 8.7% compared to the previous year and livestock production by 4.3%, with an estimated growth of 6.3% compared to the previous year in 2020. The export value also increased by 5.1%, the value of imports decreased by 7.2% and the value of the deficit by 27.6%. Some may say that these shifts are small, but they are also important to all to realize how much potential Croatian agriculture has, they should encourage us to make stronger and more reform procedures in order to make progress. In this context, the real question is which direction of total agricultural production in these conditions can and should we choose and what is it that we want to achieve and what other sectors besides agriculture we want to influence? Of course, we are all aware that we must change the trends in which the raw materials we produce and export so in that case profit from its added value is left to others and we import cheaper, very often food products at dumped and predatory prices that our farmers place in an unfavourable competitive position. That is why we need strategic planning followed by law enforcement and transparent control and implementation which will be the key to further development of Croatian agriculture. As this law regulates quality systems of agricultural and food products, we positively assess the establishment of a voluntary national quality system of agricultural and food products "Proven quality" that will provide consumers with information that they buy domestic product, added value, verified quality, or that the Republic of Croatia is the country of origin of the main ingredient, and also the country where the product is produced or processed. The system of traceability throughout the process of the food production chain puts the emphasis on the higher quality of the product, which was verified by the authorised control body prior to placing on the market. We consider it important to mention that the costs of this certification are co-financed through measure 3. Rural Development Programmes as information and promotion activities carried out by producer groups. In addition to that in early February, an invitation to co-finance the promotion of agricultural products at European level was also announced, a total of 183m euros. The amendment proposed by this Act should also be further mentioned, which for the first time creates the basis for the development of a programme for the promotion of agricultural and food products to be financed from the state budget. In addition to informing consumers about the added value of the products, this system also protects producers from unfair commercial practices that pose a huge problem in Croatia and also in European agriculture. The latest studies by the European Food Safety Authority show that the most important price and origin of the product are European customers in the decision to purchase. The Croatian consumer, more than the average population of the European Union, gives priority to food safety, and the label such as "Proven quality" needs to meet this criterion. In the European Union, the origin of the product affects 53% of the purchase decision, then the price by 51%, while in Croatia the price makes up as much as 63% and the origin of the food 58%. The plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from the Republic of Croatia for the period 2019-2022 was developed on the obligation prescribed by the Agriculture Act, and in an effort to bring together at one place all measures and activities which will contribute to the prevention of food waste in all phases of the food chain, from primary production through processing, trade, catering, institutional cuisine to households. Food and food waste has reached 20% of the total European food produced, and at global level, losses reach up to a third of the total food produced, while in Croatia we throw 75kg per capita per year. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, 4.5 kg of CO2 is released per kilogram of food produced in the atmosphere. The European Union provides for a reduction in food waste by 50% by 2030 and of course we too must achieve that goal. The Law on Agriculture and Food Prevention and Reductions has developed measures and activities to improve food donation systems, social responsibility of the food sector, reduce the amount of food waste, education, measurement, research, research and innovation. Any reduction in food waste also means lower pressure on agricultural land, lower water consumption, pesticides, fertilisers and all surpluses can be added value to agricultural producers and repairers. This process of mutual cooperation with the aim of achieving a zero waste effect in which all the participants of the chain should be winners. Due to market instability every year, Croatian farmers are forced to reject tons of their products because they could not sell them to domestic merchants. It is necessary to support those methods of reducing food waste that have so far proved effective, such as local food sales and short food supply chains, but also to continue through promotional, educational campaigns children from the smallest legs learn to consume healthy, fresh, locally-produced domestic food. We believe that it is necessary to further encourage competent inspections to carry out stricter controls and controls, especially when it comes to imported food placed on their shelves, and in this regard we expect a significant contribution from the Law on the Restraint of Unfair Commercial Practices and the Law on Official Controls that we discussed last week in the Croatian Parliament. I should be reminded that in 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture and the World Bank launched a joint project Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and Fisheries of the Republic of Croatia 2020, defining the objectives of the Croatian Agricultural Policy for the period 2020-2030, including activities that will contribute to the achievement of these objectives and respecting the needs of Croatian farmers, but also the European context defined by the Common Agricultural Policy as well as the European Green Plan, the Strategy of the Table, and the Biodiversity Strategy. This document will also serve to draw up a strategic plan for the Common Agricultural Policy for the next multiannual period of 2021-2027. We expect that, after the adoption of the National Development Strategy and after the adoption of this Law, agriculture as a fundamental law, the Strategy of Agriculture is adopted. The planned investments in Croatian agriculture in the new budget period are 5 billion euros and these funds are an opportunity for the Croatian village and agriculture, we must use them to ensure jobs and normal living conditions for village residents and thus encourage them to stay alive in the country, to continue to produce food for us and to continue to preserve Croatian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37601	Thank you, Reverend Petyr. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the Clubs. The next registered Club for Participation in the debate is the Club of Representatives Mosta, on behalf of which the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37602	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman. Croatia has been hit with two disasters lately. One is the pandemic of Covid, and the other is a disaster caused by recent earthquakes mainly in Banovina and the Carlovina County. The disaster has highlighted a problem that has long existed in Croatia, which is a serious problem that as many as a quarter of Croats are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, according to data for 2019. Poverty isn't just a political programme, poverty is something that kills. Thomas Pogge's from Yale University explained the extent of poverty as a disaster. In fact, a third of people die too soon because of poverty in this sense between 50 million and 70 million people died in World War II, and 200 million died from various consequences sponsored by different structures. Even 450 million people died of poverty. So think about how much that is compared to those disasters that we usually know under war catastrophes. I point out this in order to point out how important it is to discuss the quality of the food donation system and how important it is to establish a transparent food surplus distribution chain as soon as possible. With this, we are late, and this legislative framework changes Article 81, which further discusses what plan we need in order to be able to move forward at all in the new development of food surplus distribution leaves one dangerous uncertainty as to whether now that we have not achieved the objectives of the previous plan that was adopted for the period 2019 to 2022 again instead of implementing what we have stated to do, to encourage food banks, to appoint regional coordinators and to create a unique IT system that would link all those who are in the food distribution chain or a roof society that would gather all interested ones to re-start to write another plan. In Croatia, 400,000 tonnes of food waste is produced annually. The objective that this legislative framework is also being called upon is exactly the UN 2030 agenda dealing with the eradication of hunger. And that's why it's important to improve the food donation system. Here is something that is important for Croatian citizens, which they are not familiar with enough because the educational programme that is listed in this plan has not been implemented, which is that of 88 million tonnes of food thrown at EU level is 10% due to the deadlines of use which are not necessarily affecting the quality of this food. They are there more for some marketing reasons to make the product more competitive. At the level of Croatia, too, we need to focus seriously on education that if I do not pass the deadline, it does not necessarily mean that we must discard this product, but also at EU level, to change the rules that will allow the redistribution of food that has passed the deadline, which is still good enough to consume. In that sense, what would be most important is to finally commit to encouraging the establishment of a food bank. The second question to be answered if we go to these amendments and supplement laws is how much use of funds for the needs of supply and distribution of donated food has grown since we first adopted the 2019 plan. Have we been able to achieve more than before that plan to withdraw concrete resources to address the food donation problem? How much is the food waste down? We have seen that on 5.3.2020, it was announced that it should be started to organise a food bank or to launch at least some kind of tender that would regulate its business because it is usually owned by non-profit organisations, not governments themselves, but nothing has been done. There is no platform for sharing positive business experiences regarding the benefits of employers can have from donations to food. There is no recognition system for those who have decided to donate food. And first of all, there's no study of escape waste. Avoid the waste that didn't have to happen, the excess food that was dumped, that could have been used. And it happens all the time. Because what is the basic problem in Croatia when we talk about food donations? These are different obstacles, and one of the obstacles is the first ignorance of specific non-profit organisations that can safely donate food, which is why food banks are important. The second is regional inequality. We have discrimination depending on who lives and who can access it in the first place. In Zagreb this system works relatively, but in some remote areas it works very badly for two reasons. One is because the short deadlines are the duration so the donated food is distributed to those who first come for it, and the other is the problem of transport which is too much of a problem for those who receive donated food that does not have additional resources to distribute it in remote areas and places where people live within these parts. Thus, paradoxically donated food is easier for those in places where there is less need for donated food. In all other parts, the poorer parts of Croatia, it is much harder to reach donated food and they need it most. And unfortunately, it is important to say that the problem of donated food, most often the problem of unoptimised business, means that employers are primarily led by their own profits and that it is cheaper to store quality food than to donate it, which is why the open question of how much food will be donated in the first place if it can be used to increase someone's business? In conclusion, I'm going to say something about the bill itself. Namely, there are several ambiguities within the proposed provisions that should be amended. The first applies to Art. 3. where the final recipient of food is defined so that he is the person who will make the donor’s food supply chain likely to be in need. This is one fluid vague interpretation of who is by which criteria has been made probable and potentially allowing malversions in the food donation chain, therefore it needs to be transparently defined in the law. Furthermore, I will only express absurdity as far as art is concerned. 5. that agricultural production is carried out in accordance with the agricultural strategy because we do not have a strategy and we are clearly implementing agricultural policy. As far as art is concerned. 22. I will also point out on a similar trail that it is necessary to clearly define which geographical area has features that differ significantly from the characteristics of neighbouring areas in order to define that this is an area for the specific quality of the product, so to protect it. What does a significant distinction mean? We cannot have arbitration definitions in a legislative framework that will depend on someone's assessment. We must have clear criteria that one can or cannot meet so that the law can be implemented. And Art. 28th amending Art. The 81st leaves a misunderstanding whether we're going to come up with new plans again or we're going to finally focus on what we should do and that's the implementation of these existing plans into action. Croatia has a serious problem with poverty. That's the problem with this crisis. In order to start solving it, we should also raise awareness of the problem of food disposal but also work on a system of quality food donations. That's where we cough. We need to secure the food banks as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37603	Thank you very much. The next registered club for participation in the debate is the Club of the Centre and GLAS. In the name of that club will speak the distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37604	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. So before us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act. There are several topics that are discussed and defined by this law, but let me introspect a few words about something a little bit wider about something that is extremely relevant to agriculture and what we need to take care of and what the next agricultural development strategy will also need to be taken care of. So climate change is the fact that climate change isn't the fact on the political map of the world that Mr Trump thought but he's gone, I hope in history. All those who analyze, talk about when they were working on a crop model for corn, that in the future income will be lost and due to climate change between 6m and 16m euros. Why are you saying that? It's said that because of course we're relatively talking about some kind of research that is but what are facts, the facts are next. That the climate has changed, that the plant and animal world as well as man will adapt to climate change, that we will have to adapt both to the way and the production of agriculture, because something worth 50 years or 100 years ago will certainly not be worth it for the next 50 years. That there's a lack of water, that there's great heat and last year she showed us and pointed to one fact, and that's the subject of self-sufficiency in food. If we really want to think through the agriculture strategy of self-sufficiency in food, then we should actually think and see in the context of climate change, in the context of everything that is predicted because everything is written somewhere you know, but if you don't read it and if you don't get a little interested, then you don't know and you need to take care of it. Of course, the main focus of this change and supplement is on food waste. That's a fact. Take a look at all the home waste that we produce, how much we produce, and the indicators say that, I'm only talking about Croatia, that 97 kg per capita per year is made of food waste. And when it comes to some percentages, then part of it is in households, that's about 53% of the waste, in the food processing process 19%, and that's about 72% of the total food dumped. The loss or disposal of food is in primary production in agriculture and fisheries but is also in catering and in the commercial sector, i.e. wholesale and retail. The past year certainly won't give us a reference especially when we talk about catering but we have some reference years and what we really need to do and do and that's what we have this plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from the Republic of Croatia, but we have some things that define problems. We really need to deal with these problems. The waste that comes from food has several consequences, the result is economic, so it feels like money, the result is ecological, because you need to take care of that waste and you have a real number of problems, but what we still have in Croatia, these lists will show how many of us there really are, we're dealing with the figure of around 4 million and we're talking about sustainable development and we're talking about the topic and when it comes to food waste, we see that the difference between Croatia and others, between Zagreb and other parts of the Republic of Croatia. And we need to take the team seriously. We seriously need to deal with how to redistribute food surpluses through the national food donation system, and without a bank, I'm afraid it won't be possible to do that, and it'll be one of the priorities, and it'll be the topic on which we'll also be the minister when he gets here, or ask you where you are, what you are. I did not accidentally mention the recovery plan, i.e. the resistance to which the Republic of Croatia has the opportunity, it is 6 billion euros available, it is another 3 billion euros available through loans and it is that 13% can be used by the end of 2021. So the recovery plan is one story, but the resistance plan, to be prepared for this kind of thing, so the whole of Europe needs to be ready and we need to be prepared for it, and there's a sector of agriculture that's extremely important. Therefore, there is a real recognition of the role and responsibility of food business operators. The redistribution of surpluses, making sure that we really have a large part of the starving country, the question is what will be next. So, to define general principles, to define general things, to define the way it should be done because, now I will also welcome the minister we called for to come to us, but here, the minister really does do her job quite so responsibly and I don't, every time I use to say it and obviously had some other obligations, but she'll be through with us and she'll hear the topics we've opened and we'll still open. The third thing I want to point out is this whole information system of agriculture, electronic databases, data sources. The provision of Article 40 has changed the whole head, and there we have differences between what is written and reality. I must admit that one of the first systems we had in place, which I used in the spatial planning system, because it was a system that was established from before, of some others was the ARCOD system. And he was, really we used him, and I used him in the spatial planning process, and I used him in the process when I could see the data, or the maps from the catastrophe, and the garter even less, this was much simpler for me. We've had a situation recently, and I'd like to point it out from this pay phone, it was about the Rehabilitation Act. So, the Rehabilitation Act was passed after the earthquake of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorska, then it was extended to Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovačka County. The Law said that the majority of this will be resolved in the programme of measures to be taken by the government. In October, the government adopted the first Programme of Measures and we swear on the digitisation, swear on the citizens, swear on the building permit, which was the establishment, and the model that was then was that citizens had to collect a bunch of paper and then came up with this in the first step in a way that certain companies had started to do the job and to charge for the collection of these papers, and then the Ministry, instead of changing the programme of measures, suddenly invented some offices that would work, instead of reducing what a person was asking for, and then from the request, what the state, or apparatus could collect, was expensive. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying on the subject of the information system, and I'm really deeply convinced that the information systems are and that we're going to build a future on that and you're going to collect all the data on that. I don't think it's a problem to create a platform, I don't think, we absolutely see that we have a bunch of IP experts who've done it before or will, but there's always a problem with data. So it doesn't turn out to be that disproportionately, on the one hand, we have information systems, we have platforms, and on the other hand we don't have data to fill them with. Look closely at all of us who are interested in this Law and want to discuss it, that is the provision of the former article 117, which is the new article 45, and see what will be recorded. I think it's good to register, and I think it's good to have both a register and a orchard and a register of state aid and a register of olive trees and a register of short-sighted wood culture producers, that when it came, it was kind of a questionnaire above my head, but I learned what it was, because it's good for a few reasons. One reason is the way you will manage space, another way to see what happens to you in space, the third information that from that, is about what I started to discuss climate change, because if you have a wooden culture of short periods somewhere, it brings you something else in terms of climate change, but all of this on paper is determined, I would really like to see something of it very much in reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37605	Thank you, dear representative of the Dark-Taritash. Good afternoon, Minister. Welcome. The next Club of Representatives reported for the debate is the Club of Representatives of Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the distinguished representative Zekanovic should speak, is missing, losing his right to debate. Let's move on, Country Movement Representatives' Club, on behalf of the Home Movement Club, the distinguished representative, Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37606	Dear Croatian Parliament Vice-Presidents, respected ministers, state secretaries with co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Therefore, the Agriculture Act should provide for a legal framework for the implementation of the objectives and measures of agricultural policy, while ensuring the implementation of the EU regulation. It also includes national strategic and programming documents with national objectives, priorities, measures and mechanisms of action in the current programming period. The law also regulates the application of measures and rules relating to the common organisation of the market in agricultural products as an integral part of the common agricultural policy, including measures to regulate or organise the internal market, trade measures with third countries, competition rules and rules on communication and reporting of the European Commission, and the system of exceptional measures. We have heard from this place several times that Europe warns us that we are too much. In the OECD Report, we often read about the administrative burdens suffered by our entrepreneurs. And our farmers are primarily entrepreneurs. Why each of the other articles of the Agriculture Act states that the Minister will take the contents of the article closer to the Regulation. Take, for example, the chapter of the direct support measure of the Agriculture Act itself. These measures are defined through a total of 15 articles. These 15 articles further provide for the adoption of 8 more regulations or one Regulation with at least 8 regulations which can be easily manipulated by the content of articles of the law itself. So let's take the turn. For example, Article 21(6) states: “The implementation of measures of direct support and direction of rural development and the format and content of a single application for the support of the minister shall be governed by the Regulation.” Paragraph 27 and Article 27(2) respectively states: “The way in which agricultural areas are maintained in a state suitable for pasture or cultivation by the minister shall be prescribed by the Regulation.” Article 28(4) states: “The assignment and return of rights to the national reserve shall be prescribed by the Minister.” Article 29. "The annual increase of the national ceiling for basic payments is prescribed by the minister by the regulation." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. ‘Measures in the event of a reduction in the area of permanent grassland, including re-use factors, shall be prescribed by the Minister by Regulation.’ Article 33(5). ‘The rules relating to the condition of education or training shall be laid down by the Minister in a Regulation.’ Article 34(3), etc. etc. Where is the legal certainty of our farmers when ministers are left with such an opportunity to manipulate any other provision of the Agriculture Act. Did the OECD, or the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, think of this when Croatia clearly criticised that we are an administratively overloaded state. And what is crucial today in this high body is why in all cases the addressees of this law are not given the right to appeal, i.e. the right to access to court. For example, what continues to be the law in Article 44(1) of the Law? "The Ministry will suspend the legal person authorised to carry out the process of grading and marking the carcases, i.e. the classifier by means of a solution for the performance of the activities of the law." etc. etc. Then, in Article 12, paragraph 12, paragraph 12, says: “The solution referred to in paragraph 11 of this article cannot be declared, but an administrative dispute can be initiated. For example, in the case of control systems in organic production, Article 104 states: "The request referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article is not subject to appeal but may be initiated by an administrative dispute." In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court which the Constitutional Court has ordered the Ministry of Agriculture to implement in the Agriculture Act, it is stated that the contested legal provisions which have prevented the right to appeal and the access of the farmer constitute infringements of Article 19(2) of the agricultural law. The Constitution guaranteeing judicial control of the legality of individual acts, administrative authorities and bodies having public authority. That's true, but I find it helpful to further explain this assessment. In the Republic of Croatia, the state authority is divided between the legislative and executive authorities that are subject to democratic control by citizens, and thus the political influence and the judicial branch of the government which, unlike these two, is independent of the influence of daily politics, should at least be. In accordance with Article 115 of the Treaty on the The Constitution is prescribed that the judicial authority is independent and independent, and that courts judge on the basis of the Constitution, the law, international contracts and other valid sources of law. The courts therefore ensure that the rights of interpretation and application of legal acts are respected. In order for the courts to achieve their constitutional task of ensuring the application and respect of rights in the Republic of Croatia, it must be possible for citizens to access judicial protection in situations where their legitimate interests are at stake, especially when their interests are decided by bodies with public powers. Without the access of citizens to judicial protection, judicial authority remains a blatant and unarranged in its constitutional role as a guarantee of compliance with positive legal rules by the legislative and executive authorities. At the same time, in constitutional democracies that rest on the idea of government, the right to access courts as state authorities independent of subjective particular interests characterised by the influence of everyday politics is a fundamental form of protection of citizens against arbitrary or arbitral conduct of the executive authority. In accordance with the abovementioned key reason why the contested provisions constitute an infringement of the constitutional guarantee referred to in Article 19. The constitution is that the legislator allowed citizens' interests to be decided by the executive body outside independent judicial supervision. I note, the appeal delays the execution of the solution. On the occasion of the complaint, the solution may also be adopted in favour of the complainant or returned to the retrial. And suing the Administrative Court does not delay the execution of the solution, not to mention the long-term management of administrative disputes in the Republic of Croatia. The Constitutional Court ruled that we must give the parties the right to appeal. In other words, in the specific area of support for rural areas and the agricultural sector, the legislator is obliged to provide citizens with access to judicial protection through which effective legal protection of their interests will be achieved in relation to the bodies of the executive authorities who decide on them. Therefore, within the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agriculture, the legislator was obliged to comply with all the provisions of the Law in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 19, paragraph 2 but did not. By doing so, the ministry again shows its true face and its relationship with the village and the farmer. It would rather violate the provisions of the Constitution than equalise its farmers and other stakeholders in the system in their rights with the farmers of the European Union. Given the way our system treats food producers and our small OPGs, it's a miracle that we have survivors in the country at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37607	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving forward with the debates on behalf of the Clubs. Dear Representative Dragana Jeckov will speak next on behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37608	The Agriculture Act, which took effect on the first day of 2019 in 2020, we changed and complemented twice, and here it is again on the agenda. This Law, in fact, covers a very important area, i.e. a sector for which the state is singled out about 1.3% of GDP, which, by the way, is twice as much as it is in the European Union countries. However, it should be borne in mind how many people in Croatia are directly or indirectly engaged in agriculture and live on this activity, i.e. from activities related to the agricultural sector, so the separation is mentioned and is not too much. This way I want to draw attention to one of the problems, which is the fact that the distribution of direct payments in agriculture is focused on large producers, or even 37% of direct payments are moderated to 2% of the largest producers, and 7 counties receive, say, 60% of the support. Key structural challenges, such as lack of investment in capital, technology, research and development, which make it difficult to transform agriculture, have not yet been removed. Various factors continue to affect the restriction of the agricultural land market in the Republic of Croatia, including the availability of state-owned agricultural land. Although most of the land is privately owned, it should be said that about 30% is owned by the state and is mostly awarded on a long-term lease. This issue, therefore, is more related to the application of the Agricultural Land Act, and I have repeatedly spoken about this pay phone and highlighted the problems of implementing the Programme of individual local self-governments, which relate to the distribution of state agricultural land, and I have repeatedly highlighted the problem relating to the programme of availability in the municipality of Trpinj. It is important to point out that in this case we have a characteristic example in which, therefore, it is not a problem in the ministry, the Ministry has done every part of its work, but we have an example of how local self-government units are under pressure from large producers. This is what is the problem with this Law, but something about this Agricultural Land Act, I hope that we will have the opportunity to talk soon and hope to improve in relation to the Law that is currently in force. Therefore, an analysis of the existing regulatory framework identified the need for further harmonisation of national legislation with the legal acts of the European Union in several directions. In some cases, with a small delay, and in some cases, they refer to a European body's warning. In this context, the amendments and additions to the Law need to provide assumptions for the application of the Regulation of definition, description, presentation and labelling of strong alcoholic beverages and other food products, to harmonise the national legal system in an appropriate way, in such a way as to transpose the provisions governing the prevention of food waste, and the harmonisation relating to organic production, which we have already had some opportunities to hear about, however, these additions also ensure that the Constitutional Court's decision is implemented at the end of the 10th month last year, allowing users of agricultural policy measures, so they are granted an appeal to decisions. So, as I said, it refers to the appeal to the decision of the Agency for the Payment of Administrative Procedure, as well as to the filing of a suit, any lawsuit, so to the competent administrative court against a solution decided on by the appeal. [[Sabina Votes: Excuse me, MPs, just a moment. Dear colleagues, please, if you have something to talk about, do it outside the assembly. Thank you very much.]] In the context of the importance of agriculture and its development, it is therefore important to have the objectives and means of achieving the same, objectives and ways that need to be seen in the document of strategic importance and precisely these amendments and additions also create a legal basis for the adoption of the National Strategy for Agriculture, i.e. strategic planning, which is of national importance, which covers the area of agriculture and rural development, the bio-economy strategy and other acts, strategic planning for the implementation of agricultural policy. As we have heard, the development of the Agriculture Strategy is in a more advanced phase and because of its dependence on agriculture, a document needs to be made as detailed and quality as possible and certainly to take account of priorities important for the agriculture sector and some of these important sectors and the need to improve the business environment for producers and small and medium-sized enterprises in agribusiness, stronger and better integration of small producers and small medium-sized enterprises dealing with agribusiness on their way out, so to entering the domestic and foreign market, fostering growth and employment in less developed rural areas, increasing productivity, the agricultural and food sectors, and encouraging young people to enter the agricultural food sector. As I come from the rural area of Vukovar-Srijem County, where agriculture is definitely the most represented activity and there is almost no person who is not directly or indirectly connected and has no contact with agriculture we are aware of the importance of this law, or its importance for farmers. We are aware of how important it is for this law to comply with European legislation and to lay the legal basis as I have said for the adoption of a strategy that we hope will allow for the completion of the transformation of agriculture into a prosperous branch. As a result, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this proposal to amend and supplement the laws, and we are in anticipation of what I consider equally important if not more important, and this is the Law on the availability of agricultural land which I claim must be such that it certainly affects the growth and development of the OPGs and agricultural, domestic agricultural production, conservation as I said and the development of OPGs as guarantees for the processing of our country, and domestic agricultural production. This must be the basic intensities and this upcoming law, and I am sure that this is the only way we can talk about the development and inclusion of young people in the agricultural production process. Anything else would be unacceptable for the SDSS's Club of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37609	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on. Wait a minute, we've got some kind of flying object. We're moving on with the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next up, it's SDP Representatives' Club. On behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives, a distinguished representative of Martina Grman Kizivat and a respected representative, Michel Jaksic, will speak. Here you go. Yeah, first Michelle Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37610	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Good afternoon, everyone. Today there are new xy amendments to the Law on Agriculture and what we have had to hear about some of the debates so far is that we are now harmonizing some things with European directives because everything is wonderful, and everything else that exists in Croatian agriculture has been really in an excellent situation for 30 years, and we are just waiting for these small technical changes to make all of us realize to the end how great a situation we have in the Croatian agricultural sector. But when it looks a little bit better the way we are discussing today and what will soon be at the adoption of the Assembly is a few technical things that we are already quite late for. However, more colleagues of Grman Kivan will look at this clearly and rationally at the figures, comparisons, the direction of the movement of Croatian agriculture can say that we have 30 years of absolutely missed agricultural policies. The constant decline of its producers, the constant decline of our production and what is a common mantra that runs from year to year, from minister to minister, from government to government, every little debate on subsidized fraud appears. We could also read these days that the question of whether we would be able to share more subsidies only and only as large as we have been used to for 30 years. We always have discussions about import lobbys, about having a beautiful country, about having huge resources, about having people who love and know how to do agriculture because it showed our history. But it just doesn't work, so it doesn't work. And when we draw the line it turns out that we are only sufficient in chicken, in some types of agrum and that the strong food industry that we still thank God in the Republic of Croatia we have even if we wanted to buy everything from Croatian agricultural producers simply couldn't collect enough raw materials. Maybe this thing with the crown and the earthquake was a good indicator and a good sign that we should still turn around. Because let's remember when the first lockdown started, how much discussion we had about whether we were self-sufficient with our own agricultural and food production and what we were going to do in times that would come with some new strategy to never put ourselves in a position to depend on food from imports. That closing of borders last spring was our best indication that one day it could happen. The United States, Russia, the EU's masses have turned to quick some new strategies and to look for models to ensure that they have at all times self-sufficiency from their own production. We have to admit that we simply didn't do it then, and so far we haven't done anything about it. And instead of discussing today what a new EU budget period awaits us, the EU which is now even more turning in this new period just to encourage its agricultural production and its food production, we are here today in the debate on certain technical matters in which we have recognised ourselves that we are somewhat late. We have a great country, we have a great quality of soil, we have really lots of natural resources that we could use to strengthen Croatian agricultural production in a way that we finally have a clear and rational subsidy policy, not that every year more and more subsidies are going, and our production is less. We have the opportunity to have our own agricultural production that will meet the needs of Croatian citizenship, Croatian food industry. We have a great opportunity to develop ecological agriculture and brand our products that are truly quality and valuable, but in 30 years we haven't simply done enough, we haven't moved from a dead spot because the situation in Croatian agriculture in our vegetable farming is simply saying in our livestock industry that all the policies so far haven't yielded results, because if they had produced results we wouldn't still have that level of imports and we wouldn't have less self-sufficiency in our own production per category of products that we can indicate from year to year. The very things in which we are late, and today we are discussing through the legislative proposal will now be said more by my colleague Grman-Kizivat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37611	Thank you, Your Honor, as you have said, for the honorable representative, Grman-Kizivat, will continue. Here you go, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37612	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished minister with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The interpretation of the Law as one of the most important reasons is the need for amendments and additions to comply with the State Inspectorate Act. We remind you that the State Inspectorate Act was published in the National Journal on 20 December 2018, and with the work the State Inspectorate started 1. 4. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, It says that nearly two years of the Agriculture Act did not comply with the State Inspectorate Act. Which is the case with a number of other laws in the area of agriculture. During the adoption of the State Inspectorate Act, it was necessary to prepare a package of amendments to all other laws in the area of agriculture, as legal uncertainty is firstly created, and the system itself establishes for years, without plans and a clear vision. The above mentioned strategy is adopted for the period 20-30. Today is 2021, while the Strategy will be brought in 2022. Another one in a series of delays from the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, when it comes to this Ministry, we would like to inform that employees who have taken over from the Advisory Service and the Croatian Agricultural Agency after the government's decision to abolish these institutions have concluded new labour contracts with a delay of over a year. What about donating food? The Ministry of Agriculture missed the deadline for the adoption of the Directive in the area of the prevention of food waste, which was received and written a notice from the European Commission on 5 July 2020. The plan to prevent and reduce waste from food from the Republic of Croatia for a period of 4 years has been adopted by the Government in 2019, but we have no information on how implementation is going and what activities have been realised, or whether they have been delayed. Furthermore, in the area of donated food in the draft amending and supplementing the Law, it is said that the Ministry of Agriculture will prepare a Programme of Support for projects that contribute to the prevention and reduction of food waste as well as a Programme for support to food donors in the food donation chain. Sources and amounts of the planned funds are not listed, but in the light of the Law, it states that there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the State budget for its implementation. We therefore ask that at least the indicative date of the production of the Programme be presented as well as the financial amount planned for the implementation of these programmes. With regard to the system related to the designations of origin, the protection of one geographical indication or the traditional speciality of amendments to the Law shall be subject to compliance with Regulation (EU) 2017/625, which was published on 15 March 2017. I guess the alignment couldn't have been done by passing the Agriculture Act in 18 years, and we're looking for an explanation on this issue. We ask ourselves whether the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared guidelines for the introduction of occasional transitional national protection of these labels, for alcoholic beverages, in order to prepare producers in time for the implementation of new provisions. As regards the request for strategic planning in amendments to the Law in the Agriculture Strategy, it is said that the Ministry will prepare a strategy for the bioeconomy. It seems to us that the Agriculture Strategy is being prepared as a strategy for the development of agriculture and fisheries, so it is not clear whether it is still an additional strategic document. In addition, we ask for information whether the Ministry of Agriculture planned a strategic document in the area of forestry or whether it would be an integral part of another strategy. At European Union level, the Strategy for the Forests is being prepared as an integral part of the European Green Plan, and we are interested in what direction the Ministry is operating in this area. And further on behalf of the public, we are looking for information on which resources and financial resources will be prepared by the above-mentioned strategic document. Amendments and additions to the Law provide the basis for the adoption of a specific programme of support at national level to promote Croatian farmers and agricultural products. As explained by the Law, no information is needed for its implementation on financial resources either, we are looking for information on how we stand with finance. Speaking of promotion of agricultural products, please information on what the Ministry is thinking about branding with “Mountain Product” and “Island Product”. Why are these changes and additions not defined areas of the local market? We are witnessing that the development of the local market and the return of the food supply chain is one of the priorities of the European Green Plan, which should be more clearly defined. We learn that the Law also changes because so far the Law has failed to make norms in the legal administration regarding the abolition of the powers of legal persons to mark and classify bovine and pig and sheep carcases. We ask the Ministry to coordinate the authorisation procedure because only contracts are conducted and contracts signed for the sole tasks, and management procedures are carried out for certain tasks. We demand that all verification databases are publicly published on the Ministry's website for transparency. In addition, the failures are recognised in Article 31, 35, 36 while Article 65 is accompanied by appropriate nomotechnical addition and harmonisation of the standard, as the currently applicable provision linked the obligations and criteria which are unrelated to each other and not harmonised. It's just some. We welcome honest and honest recognition of mistakes, but there are still a little too few of them in this serious important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37613	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on. The next is the distinguished representative Željko Lenart, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37614	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Agriculture Act was supposed to be the most important law in this country since agriculture is primary production, since each job in agriculture opens almost two jobs in the economy. But unfortunately, that's not the case. The main theme of this law is to comply with EU legislation, and I believe that no one has studied all of these directives that are listed in this bill because I think it takes so long that no one can separate it and that the debates that are being held here are in some way and superficial because we do not know what is being written in these directives that are being discussed here. But here is the law governing certain objectives and measures of agricultural policy, and they are listed here, many of them you have spoken of. He says the law provides a legal framework for the implementation of the objectives and measures of agricultural policy. Now what's agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia? Is agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia that 33,000 has the highest quality agricultural land from Agrokor Group ends up in foreign hands? So it's a new Forte group. That's not a good goal for me. Is the collapse of pigmeat production a goal? It's not, and it happens. We see and recently, pigs' associations pointed to a low import price of pig meat from the EU that they cannot compete with with their production. Is the ruin of dairy production the purpose of this law? It's not supposed to be, but unfortunately, the ruin of dairy production happens. All those who survive in that production, who fight with the last atoms of strength to survive know what the job is, and that's your job that when a child is married, you can't even go to your wedding as normal people because you have to feed at a time when it feeds and you have to musk at a time when they are milking. No one else can do it without you. And the cows can't wait another day to turn off the counter, so the next day you turn them on. But no one admits and respects them for what these rare and most persistent produce milk. Is the aim of agricultural policy and not implementing the Law on Agricultural State Land? It's not. Here we were almost three years ago pointing out here after this pay phone, writing amendments, saying it wasn't an enforceable Agricultural Land Act. The Minister wasn't even a minister at the time, so she can't be guilty. The results after all this time show that we were right. But what it's worth to us is that we were right not to solve the problem of state agricultural land, when the peasants didn't get state agricultural land. Why? Is there a reason that the moratorium for the purchase of foreign land will soon expire? Maybe it is, maybe it isn't, but it's more than it is. The second thing that happened from that law is that the price of agricultural land has increased several times, that the price of land that our farmers must have to have in order to produce has increased several times now, and what will happen when that moratorium expires, when people who pay 100,000 euros per hectare of land in their home countries. For them, 10 or 15000 euros per hectare is nothing. Is the objective of unfair trade practice in Croatia that has at every step that destroys the least and then towards the larger one. Is the goal of six and a half percent of the biggest ones getting one-third of the support? It shouldn't be, but that's why these smaller ones are slowly leaving, going to Ireland, Germany for a normal life where what they're told is true and worth it. People keep their words there, and all they do is promise them. How did Poland work with agricultural funds? About ten years ago, the Poles offered to help us, to guide us on how to exploit our funds. They were pre-accession funds for us back then. Here's our minister at the time wouldn't take the Poles to help him, they didn't ask for anything in return even though we pointed to it and tried to connect it didn't. So, for the state of agriculture, it can't be one minister's fault, it can't be one government's fault. It's all the governments and all the ministers, but since I'm a farmer, I can freely say that agricultural producers or peasants are guilty. One big protest we had in Zagreb, one and only, and since then we have no more major protests. See how the peasants in Europe drive out justice and how they fight for their rights? They are not afraid of their police, nor of their punishment, nor of the repression that the government is going after them. So Poland first gave the funds to the small ones, which they didn't use, they gave to the mediums, and then what was left is whether they were large. How's it going in Croatia? First they got those with party cards, and then they got pre-election campaign donors, for some of them and the laws were especially working, so they got big and what's left, the crumbs got small. Now we swear on the OPG, the rest of the small people to live in villages, and as it seems, here the minister could convince herself of her eyes in Bania where people survive from little bits of land, from little cattle, they're not even listed in the OPG's register, they don't take support, and when they die, no one will live there anymore. Those who are smaller, under 10 ha, and they will be hard to survive and then they will swallow all the others who are trying to exist there. Unfortunately, over 3,500 people are already from Sisak-Moslavina County after the earthquake. Why do we treat agriculture like that? Why do we not use what the European directives leave us as a possibility? Well, that's covert support and national measures. So why does pork from the Netherlands come to Croatia or Germany with such a low price? Well, because these richest EU members and the oldest have hidden support measures. And they allow their producers to produce below the price and place on markets like ours. And they're destroying our agriculture. How do they place it? Through their centers. So whose centers came to Croatia? They didn't come from Bulgaria and Romania. They came from Western Europe to sell their raw materials and to destroy agriculture, but we will not blame them for fighting for their own, but we must blame ourselves. We have to blame ourselves for letting that happen. Our markets died, she died, the farmers were ruled on self-determination, and now we're talking about increasing agricultural production, increasing exports. Well, normally we have an increase in agricultural production when the crop of soy corn last year was between 10% and 20% higher. And almost all the corn and soy we take to Italy and Western countries and they fertilize them and make more money on it instead of developing livestock that would spend primary production, if we'd made a processing industry, we'd hired people and processed our product and sold it as a final. Here, unfortunately Our goals are bad and our agriculture is inexhaustibly collapsing. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37615	Thank you, Reverend Lenart. Now I'm going to interrupt the session for a moment to clear the room, we haven't done that in about three hours. We'll continue at 15 and 45. It's 3:34 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.47 HOURS]] The esteemed representative, Mariana Petir, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37617	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with an associate, MPs and representatives. If the amendments and additions of this Agriculture Act were proposed at another time, not during the Covid 19 disease pandemic after the catastrophic earthquakes that hit the Republic of Croatia, the question is whether they would then be considered in the way we look at them today and discuss them. It should certainly be said that they encourage data from the National Institute of Statistics on the growth of the value of agricultural production, and they are also indicators of our future opportunities in agricultural production. In this context, it is necessary to start from the foundations, which are the resources that we have and which need to be put into a function with which the producers who use these resources and who need to ensure any assistance in continuing agriculture and the expansion of agricultural activities. This assistance is looked at through a series of laws that we have discussed, which we are adopting and which we are changing to create preconditions for the efficient functioning of the agricultural system, but also through the support that farmers received last year in the amount of 7 billion kuna to help them in their important business, which is the production of food and preservation of rural space. What I certainly advocate is that this support system is arranged in a fair and transparent way in a balanced way that will primarily contribute to the development of small and medium-sized agricultural economies in the Republic of Croatia. I consider a valuable measure of five rural development programmes and a new tender of 120 million kuna, which will go according to the accelerated and simplified procedure, which is intended for farmers on the earthquake affected by the area for the recovery of their agricultural land, construction and reconstruction of facilities, the purchase of machinery, machinery, equipment for agricultural production, the purchase of domestic animals and crops of several years of plants, but also for further encouraging the use of wood in the restoration of agricultural facilities. Applications for tenders will also be speeded up and simplified. Each farmer will have advisers and help with the documentation, and those aid measures will not only contribute to the restoration of damaged agricultural potentials but are part of the wider revitalisation of the Banovina agriculture. With this help, I also consider it important to change trends, to encourage raw materials processing and to create added value, and to achieve this result, we need further investment in research and innovation in agriculture, but also to strengthen support for farmers in creating those tools by which they will create added value of their products in order to reduce in fact the assumptions that these products in raw materials are exported from our country, and that imports of food products are certainly not good. In addition to investments in processing and storage facilities planned by the development strategy for agriculture, we also see a great competitive pressure on the market related to fruits, vegetables, milk and meat, which are needed and stronger activities related to the protection of domestic production and clearer standardisation of quality of products available on the Croatian market. It is also necessary to work on informing and strengthening the farmer's awareness of the importance of using the geographical indication of origin and originality, but also on the importance of voluntary quality labels because we can protect our domestic production from unfair priced competition of products available on the shelves at predator and dumped prices. The latest European Food Safety Authority study, whose results show that food safety and data on its origin are important for Croatian consumers when making a purchase decision. I think it is important to point out that increasing the value of Croatian agricultural production, reducing the value of imports of agricultural products, strengthening the position of farmers of the market and of making decisions and creating development policies, their economic and social and cultural integration into the life of the rural area, are elements that depend on the competitiveness of the overall agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia and on any and least Croatian agricultural producer. And these changes create a basis for effective planning of future activities in Croatian agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37618	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. First distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37619	Collaterals of Article 22, which goes according to the amendments to Article 71 of the existing law, says that the defined geographical area has features that differ significantly from neighbouring areas in order to protect geographical origin. We know that geographical origin is of marketing importance, but that the mother of all quarrels with her neighbors is about the eye and the food, and in this case, it's about strong alcoholic beverages. Do you think it might be wiser to define in the law more concrete and precise what significant differences would be, not to leave something like that or to arbitrarily interpret those who are trying to protect geographical origin because of possible future lawsuits or certain regulations because it can be a matter of interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37620	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37621	Thank you very much, fellow Members, for your proposal. On the board, we were just discussing this topic that touches the geographical origin of the product and in fact what we noticed seemed to us that the procedure was quite complicated and we would like it to be simpler. But it's a directive that's been transposed into our legislation so we don't have much room for maneuvering. But the fact is that as much as we love our neighbours and cooperate well with them and be supportive of each other, they sometimes seek those rights that they do not have because it is clear to everyone that the varazdin desires produced in Varazdin is our indigenous product and that Varazdin is not in another country but in Croatia. So we had a lot of fights in that sense anyway. These procedures are very long-term. In my experience, if all is well, they last up to a year or two at European level to declare a product protected. But here's the happy fact that we've been stalking each other and maybe we've been getting along a little better lately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37622	Thank you. I'm just asking you to be careful on time. The next replica is Honorable Representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37623	Honorable MPs, respected ministers. These positive statistics really encourage. The increase in agricultural production by 7% in 2020 compared to 2019, increased EU aid payments around 20%, increased agricultural exports of 5.1%, imports decreased 7.2%. I really say these indicators encourage and in some ways confirm that we are on the right track with regard to agricultural production, or agricultural policy. When we look at the structure of the value of agricultural production then we see that plant production is practically represented by 58.5%, livestock production with 34.9% and the rest of 6.6%. My question is how to in some way increase the share of livestock farming, i.e. final production in agriculture, and thus increase the number of jobs and in some ways ensure the possibility of employment, i.e. in rural areas, a better future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37624	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37625	Thank you very much, colleague Shashin, for this information that you have presented, because they are certainly a good indicator of one new trend, and I hope that this will continue because it is important for us to strengthen our agricultural production because self-sufficiency in food production is a prerequisite for preserving national sovereignty. When it comes to livestock, it is very demanding and it is quite clear that the smaller number of agricultural producers decide on the branch not only because of the demand for production, time and agricultural impasses that need to be invested but also because it is precisely because cattlemen may feel the most of the problems that occur because of the disturbances in the market. This is also the reason why we have reached out to new instruments by amending the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain so that this sector of meat and milk that are most sensitive would try to protect them in the best possible way from unfair commercial practices.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37626	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The following has been registered for individual discussion by the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37627	My colleagues and colleagues, the EU is a paradoxical creation. On the one hand, there is a fetishation of authenticity, a search for national and regional identity within European countries. This is what we see by the importance of origin and roots, so we are witnessing a very cost-effective fight for the protection of indigenous products, which is also the law of which is prosciutto, whose wish, whose movement is, and whose alcoholic beverages are strong here. On the other hand, the desire for unification, monolithity and identity shall be imposed. Tomatoes and other fruits and vegetables must be identical in size and shape. In both cases, it's most often in the background of profit. Namely, the origin of food products for Croatian and EU citizens is one of the most important criteria for purchase. In researching the European Consumer Association BEUC domestically prefers 70% of customers. This is often used by merchants by masking certain products, for example, in our case cubes or elsewhere with appropriate decorations. I point out this in order to warn that we here will protect geographical origin with a really complicated procedure when it comes to strong alcoholic beverages, but it is open to the question whether and for our end-users, consumers will only collect this product. Is there anything behind this that will help us protect our home or one marketing trick that leads to the general collection and goes to hit our home pocket as well? As far as these amendments and the addition of laws are concerned, some things really need to be defined more clearly. In Article 3, we cannot say that the final recipient of food can be the person who makes the donor likely to use it. The laws are not a weather forecast, but clearly defined protocols that must be unequivocally applicable in practice. It is also similar with the application of the directive, such as Article 22, which I asked my colleague, Petir, where it is said about areas that differ significantly from other areas. There's got to be a clear scale that's more, which is less, and we wouldn't leave room for the possible lawsuits of those neighbors who think we didn't have the right to declare something indigenous that might belong to us or their definition of them. The duration is a big problem. Ten per cent of the 88 million tonnes to be thrown at EU level are dumped due to the crossing of the term of duration which has been more set there for marketing reasons and less for real reasons of food corruption. The plan announced in 2019, the first plan to deal with the food donation system, announced that our citizens would be educated that food should not necessarily be thrown away with an expiry date. But I don't see anything going on about it. Moreover, I believe that this problem is so great that both at the principle level and the EU, as well as in Croatian legislation, we should clearly define how to deal with the deadlines in order to reduce the waste of food that we now have on the ground those 400,000 tonnes specifically at Croatia's level. I will mention once again regional inequality, the fact that due to expensive transport and the fact that proper food disposal is often cheaper after the expiry of the period of time than the donation and that intermediaries are not always willing to take over the food that expires within two, even three days. Those poorer areas where citizens need citizens are more often unreachable and those who remain without food donated. We urgently need to deal with concrete measures that will go towards creating a prerequisite for making these food banks that we have been announcing for so long and which are one of the most important problems in the distribution of donated food. Because we don't have food banks, we don't trust citizens with the food donation system. I'm going to mention a positive example from past practice. In England there's the first food West supermarket that's open, where you pay as much as you want, you can in money but in time and in skills. It goes into step with the modern trends of the sharing economy so that food is not thrown away. And I'd like to conclude with an important saying by Russian philosopher Nikolai Berjayev. He said if I'm hungry, it's a material problem, but if someone else is hungry it's a spiritual problem. We should deal with this very spiritual problem here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37628	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. The first is Honorable representative Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37629	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, the research has shown that the reasons for the production of excess foods are different. The main kind of apostrophe and the conclusion that is imposed is that food surpluses result from an unoptimized way of doing business. If we ignore all this other stuff that can't even fit into this one minute, I'd ask you one key thing. What is crucial to you is what the state should actually do as such to improve and make a better form of donation of surpluses to all those who do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37630	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37631	To even encourage citizens to donate more, we need first a study of refugee waste, to see what is the surplus we could have saved. Then the state should focus on creating preconditions for non-profit organisations that would be food banks. Therefore, to be a mediator in some way, an initiator that would connect interested parties in that donation chain and enable them to act better. The thing that is also needed is some kind of clearer IT communication through which these parties could connect. These are steps already defined by both the plan and the feasibility study to the food bank and the food donation plan. However, we are going back to changing the law, which is not in itself bad, but we lack the implementation of this plan in practice. So, to finally revive those food banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37632	Thank you. Next replica, distinguished representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37633	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and distinguished colleague Selak Rasudiæ, I would like to ask you once again what we can do as a system to make it more quality and to help the really poor citizens of the Republic in a concrete way and through these stories that we hear today here all day long. What do you think is to tell the public about the Croatian public what we can do specifically through the story of the food bank, through the story of concrete help to the poor because we know all the problems with food and food disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37634	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37635	Well, for starters, we might as well be able to deal with a problem that's current not to become acute, which is a huge amount of donated food in the Banovina area. In order to know at all how much extra donated food we would have to create some kind of transparent solidarity system where the public would be familiar not only with that donated food that went through the state sector and about which there are some official statistics, but also various surpluses that came from different organisations or directly from individuals. If we don't, and I have witnessed on my own a visit to Banovina various warehouses with piles of food on them, many of which are running out of time. Soon, if we don't deal with this particular problem, we'll have donated food waste. Food should be redistributed if it cannot be used on Banovina right now. No one's talking about it. No one's even asking that as a question. What we're going to do is bury those holes in the ground with the food that we're going to throw and that came out of our citizens' pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37636	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37637	Dear colleagues, according to some data available to me in 2019, there was a significant increase in food donations for some 13 million kunas. That's 30% more than the previous year. And according to the data, this trend is growing, but it is certain that the whole system needs to improve what this law will do. What I'm kind of seeing is a tour of the terrain, and when we talk about poverty and the needs of citizens who are literally the hungry greatest support there provides them with Croatian Caritas through their branches, churches and various church lines. Do you think it would be instructive and good to include local self-government in this process and to help with opening and supplying mere cuisines, because poor people should not only care about churches and believers but all the communities. We all have to try to stop poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37638	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37639	I agree with you, colleague Petyr. We should, in general, decentralise Croatia and strengthen the role of local self-government and especially in this problem of poverty, which is extremely large in Croatia and especially in certain counties and Sisak-Moslavina and Brod-Posavina and beyond. What's also a big problem is that let's say these systems that you mentioned like Caritas that are really the first to go to the end users and give them food are not the ones that give donated food, but buy food from their own resources that they then give to end-users. So these are one of the strongest systems we have at all, and they're not included in the food chain, but they're spending material resources to get food. It means that we really need to strengthen this other system that, if we want to have a double benefit, would go through donated food. Solve the problem of poverty and solve the problem of food disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37640	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your presentation, the distinguished representative of Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37641	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, so you mentioned the sharing economy. It's something about us that's absolutely about the bandages and somehow it's somehow left under the radar at all that way. The experiences of some other EU countries have been shown to be good. So, on the one hand, we really have people who live in poverty. On the other hand, we have a surplus that is excess and that will one day turn into a waste. And when it turns into waste, it's going to be an added problem with waste management, and I'm not counting now. There's some balance between one and the other. And the economy of sharing at all is something else, and for that I'm afraid that without having one, one system that's set up by it can't be anything it can just turn into its own antipod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37642	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37643	I agree because it's got the looks of that system. He's much more flexible, which is positive. But it's much less regulated. So that even different rights that can otherwise be achieved through traditional institutions in modern technology based systems cannot be realised or often avoided. But this may be very good to advertise for some educational purposes and expand among our citizens because what I have highlighted in this example of the United Kingdom is interesting that in this supermarket you can compensate for the food, which is donated and which you will take. So, the starting idea is that each of us has something that we can give to another, and that doesn't necessarily have to be this classic or commodity or cash purchase that normally exchanges. Why don't you pay for the skills and take some extra food. And I bathe you in the garden, and you give me lunch. That's always been.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37644	Thank you, no more replicas, you can go to your seat, thank you. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Just to disinfect the pay phone, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37645	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with an associate, so I will go on about where my colleague Selak Rasudiæ stopped or where we opened one topic, which is the topic of food waste. So, I'm not going to say any newspaper when I say that the population of the Republic of Croatia at year level has 97kg of food waste. And I'm not going to say any newspaper when I say it comes from households, but with households, of course, that's where food is primarily produced in agriculture or fishing, but also in catering, trade, wholesale and retail. And now on the one hand we have this fact, on the other hand we have people who are in need. In between, the time has come for us to make a balance. In doing so, I have to say that we do have and there is a program or plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from the Republic of Croatia and that is where we come to the part where we have something papery, but we should also have something in reality. The basis of that plan was, a guide was made and now the question is what we have in reality, what we can actually have, what the relationship is between one and the other. We come to the next topic, and that's what we have laws that we change and supplement. We change laws and supplement one of the basics is when we have a directive that we mistranslated or copied, so we have a pilot. Our second base is the change and the supplement that arises because of some needs that are but it would be good to take a step further. And that means that in the light of the laws that come, or what is the current state, we have some data. So that through this existing state when it comes to it, I'm really going to base myself here on just two topics, one topic is reducing food waste, and the other topic is digitization. So it would be good to know what's been done so far. We know there's a pilot project from 2019. What did this pilot project do? How many units of local self-government are involved? What's going on? It seems to me that the time has come to go, when we get one law that we have in law. What has proved to be a new hit in this assembly, which is that when you go by amending and supplementing the law as little as possible by law, and as many rules or sublaws as possible and that's wrong. And I come up with that topic that is particularly interesting to me, which is the provision of this Article 45th, in fact, it's an amendment to Article 117, that's the information system. In 2013, a Law on national spatial data infrastructure, called the NIP Act, was adopted in this assembly, it was established by the INSPIRE Directive, which says spatial data must be made available to all. The managing body is the State Geodetic Authority, and that's when I discussed it and talked about it the next way. So you have one giant closet that has lots of drawers, you open each of these drawers and in each of these drawers are certain data that ultimately serves you you know what, among other things for the development strategy of the Republic of Croatia. All strategies no matter how sectoral they need to be drawn from that data. I went somewhere in 2017 to see how we managed these spatial indicators and data and it was seen that we were almost in no way, but sloppy. And we and this law are talking about certain data that they are. And all the data here is, which is from the Ministry of Agriculture's system is actually spatial data. How do I explain that? So, the data that someone is growing a pet is a data that will eventually be used in the future with several aspects. It will be used from the aspect of environmental protection so that we know that it's a space where the growth of the pets that produce it is already happening, that and that. From the topic of creating spatial plans that already there is production and that it does not expand the construction area. A third topic that is equally important in the context of everything that we have earthquakes and everything else, that raising pets will help to make the soil such as that and that. So it's extremely important that we have and manage that data. And what's my experience is next. We have excellent IT experts. These IT experts make great platforms, but it's about who's gonna fill them, how they're gonna fill them. And that's where we get the key problem. As long as we don't solve this country's cadastre, and we need it, in one hour, I've calculated 119 years. The question is, what do we base the data on? [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37646	Thank you very much. The first replica of your presentation, distinguished representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37647	Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, here we often complain to each other about the way we even discuss any law and what you said, and I will agree with that, that we do not have prepared reports on the implementation of the plans that exist and which are good so that we can see what we will change further. They stay a dead letter on paper. Let's say this plan that should be implemented tomorrow because the deadline was in 2022, we could be Benefit was a crisis and a little bit removed, he offered donor platforms to connect with each other, he offered various awards and recognitions to those who were good donors, stressed the importance of monitoring the amount of funds we managed to withdraw from the EU for this purpose. But we know nothing about what we have succeeded in accomplishing. How, then, do we have too much discussion about changes and additions to this overwhelming law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37648	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37649	Thank you very much. It's hard, because when you read this law, and we all have Google that solves all of us from diagnosing our illnesses and helping us to discuss certain laws, it says in this law that we need to make a plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from the Republic of Croatia, that it's 18 months old and you get into a situation and you think okay. Then you go Google a little bit and you see that it exists, and then you go a little further and you see that based on that something is done. There could have been 5 sentences in the context of the current situation. It could be said that the existing state is like that, we have a plan, we have a guide, we have a pilot project of the food bank. It turns out that in the next plan, we need to work out that we need some more data, and everything would be clear. In principle, we should work and read the regulations. If someone had read this, they would have asked the secretary of state when you intend to make a plan, and then he would have said but the plan is over. So we have in this introductory part of an awful lot of data. But maybe the ones you should have are unfortunately missing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37650	Thank you very much. The next replica, distinguished representative Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37651	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My fellow Tarrits, you said a very good thing, and I want to bring it here. And that's the fact that in this summation are definitely popular laws that need to be further subdued. In fact, we leave most of them under these acts that will be passed later, and the less we resolve the laws. Why is that? Well, if I were naughty, I'd say that ruling here has some hidden intention, that they're afraid to conduct a public debate on some solutions, that apparently someone might want to please or some of the processes to be excluded. I'd say I'm bad, but I'm not bad, so I won't say that. I'm going to say that I'm an opponent of prenuptation, but I'm an opponent and an adversaries. And experience taught us that sometimes it's better to have a little more exhaustive, but better law than too many sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37652	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37653	Thank you very much. So I don't think any of us have a magic wand and that magic wand will solve all the problems. I also think that during the time that behind each government, beyond its four-year term or four-year term of office of this assembly, we should be seen what is in this assembly, or we are the result of what the Government gives us and has better. I would very much like to call behind this call of ours to say that we have succeeded in achieving that there is something less regulation, not that everything we don't know can be moved to the rulebook because then the role of the assembly, the role of the representative body, is assumed by the minister, the minister who makes the rule. Not to say that you have a bunch of regulations now but that must be passed with the consent of 3-4 ministers depending on the subject on which it is. I wish that behind this assembly we had that the reasons for the law are better and more concrete and that the result of these laws would be fewer regulations or sublegal acts, but I'm afraid we didn't go the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37654	Thank you very much, no more replicas. We're moving forward with an individual debate. Dear Representative Stipan Sashlin is the next registered speaker for the individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37655	Dear Vice-Presidents, respected ministers of colleagues and colleagues, this law, as well as many so far, brings national legislation into line with EU legislation and legal acts. The law provides a legal framework for the implementation of the objectives and measures of agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia. The law also maintains the division of agricultural policy measures into three basic categories. Through the first market-based target policies covering direct payments and a common market organisation. Then through rural development measures which also ensure a continuation of direct payments. Thirdly, the continued provision of support to extremely sensitive sectors in agriculture is ensured. The law regulates individual segments in the food donation system and provides a legal basis for the adoption of a plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from food. Issues and actions in the area of competent inspections are also regulated. The alignment with EU Regulation 2019/787 defines the labelling of strong alcoholic beverages of geographical indications, the use of ethyl alcohol and distillates in alcoholic beverages. The quality system and protection of the name for agricultural and food products shall be regulated. In the segment of organic production, the questions of the normative solutions of this law as well as the Law on Agricultural Land are further regulated, which we will probably discuss later in this House. In the organic production segment, it is particularly necessary to protect existing agricultural land intended for organic production and to define a way of increasing ecological areas. Second, through the programmes available to agricultural land, protect or precisely define the areas foreseen for organic production. When we talk about organic production then I want to highlight here a positive example of organic production in the municipality of Bilje i.e. in Baranja. In this municipality of 4,400 hectares of agricultural land somewhere around 1,300 hectares is under organic production. On these surfaces are mainly grown spice peppers which have become a kind of brand not only in the area of the Municipality of Bilje but also throughout Baranja and wider in Slavonia. In addition to increasing a significant number of areas under organic production, the number of registered organic producers increased from some 15 % registered in 2016 in 2020 to over 30 registered producers. Given the fact that the Municipality of Bilje is part of the Nature Park “Kopački rit” and as such a very sensitive ecological area, it is understandable and the insistence of the Municipality of Bilje to clearly define, through its programme, the areas intended for organic production and thus contribute to the overall protection of the ecological network of Nature Park “Kopački rit”. I believe that these amendments to the Agriculture Act as well as the future changes that we will discuss in this House in the agriculture sector will provide quality conditions for rural development in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37656	Thank you very much. The first replica of your presentation is the esteemed representative Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37657	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Representative Shashin. This course of debate essentially outlined what is part of the amendment and addition of this law, which is a problem of thrown food that certainly represents a big, big problem when you look at the quantities in Croatia and in general in Europe are huge. How do you actually see, here you come from a part that is agriculturally potent, of course Baranja as one of the more potent regions when it comes to agriculture solving this problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37658	Thank you very much for this question. I'll honestly tell you my opinion. When we talk about excesses or waste to say food first, we need to talk about how to prevent excesses. When they already come into existence, it is indeed their problem to deal with the problem. And in order to solve the problem of excess food, we need to start with the education of the population from kindergarten through schools, families, etc. at the earliest age to simply teach people to use, to order, to spend as much as they need and how much food they will spend. Let's look at this little neighbouring country in the west and we'll see, but it's simply in the minds of these people because the situation forced them to. We've always had a lot of food and it's been like this, and these stories of someone working for the rest of the food, it's been a long time since a kilo of fat worked for one day. Yeah, I'm afraid we'll never come back to that again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37659	Thank you. The next replica is the distinguished representative Petyr. This is your third one, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37660	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Shaslin, you come from a region that long ago recognized the importance of creating added value of agricultural products, so not only to produce raw materials but also to reprocess it and put it on the market, but also through other forms associated with rural tourism, through various manifestations known in the area of Baranja, and to some other international promotions which I have personally helped in the European Parliament, and I must say that they were all thrilled with the Baranja tower, but also with wines coming from that area. I'm interested in how much local self-government has actually contributed because you are also the head of local self-government, in designing all these promotional projects, and how much do you support your farmers to produce and give the product added value or to process it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37661	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37662	Thank you for this question. Indeed, what I mentioned in the Municipality of Bilje, and this is a very positive example where through these manifestations through the Fisher days, the paprika days in Luga, etc., the production of local spices, fish processing, fish products, etc., cuisine, but not only in the Municipality of Bilje. Indeed, many local self-government units in the Baranja area support their producers. Here is one project for the production of cuisines in the Bela Manastir implemented, we have a registered Baranja kuline in Jagodnjak, Jagodnjak Municipality, and of course it is so much easier for us that both regional self-government and county absolutely encourages us to do so, and these larger projects, of course, also a resorient ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37663	Thank you very much. And the last replica of your presentation is the distinguished representative of the Rose Wolf. Here you go. Stay, please. You have one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37664	Thank you, Vice President. So, you're a colleague of Shaslin's and I'm interested in the fact that today you've been fairly optimistic about increasing the production of any new OPGs in your community that are engaged in livestock farming, so specifically in the production of meat and milk as the most important products when we're talking about agriculture or the diet of the population, and also this law doesn't really require an emergency place in the function of all the areas or of its agricultural land that are suitable for production, so I'm interested in what you're really based on your optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37665	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37666	Here, thank you for this question. We are indeed witnessing major changes in agriculture. Once upon a time when I was young in the village was every house had one, two cows. Today, unfortunately, there are only 6 families in the entire municipality, but these are families, or economies that have several hundred cows. So simply these changes are inevitable, people have to adapt to new market conditions and adapt their production. We have, not only do we now have the production of or milk but we have a positive example and we have the construction of a mini-milk shop or mini-sirane in a small village of Podolje which here means the opening of new additional jobs and the insurance of people there in their living space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37667	Thank you very much. Here's what we've exhausted all of these replicas to your exposure. You may have been confused that I told my colleague Petyr that this was her third replica last after this debate. We continue with individual debates. Next in line is distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37668	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, we have heard a lot today, and as we see today, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agriculture Act relating to the basic Agriculture Act, which will improve the current state of play for the implementation of the objectives and measures of agricultural policy. It also improves the consistency of the current legal framework, which in the broadest sense regulates the area of agriculture and agricultural policy. The proposed law relates to the achievement of the principle of general food safety and the conservation of natural agricultural resources, with the improvement and increase of competitiveness and the strengthening of the social, social, economic and environmental role of agriculture. And all within the framework of the additional administrative discharge of farmers. The proposed law ultimately allows for a clearer, more uniform treatment of competent authorities and a transparent way of handling and a better and more efficient system. As already stated in our discussions on this law, the legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with European legislation and a series, implementing a series of regulations that allow for improvement, improvement, support for extremely sensitive sectors. This act shall also ensure the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of October 2020 repealing Articles 15(4) and 67(2) of the current law. These amendments and additions also create a legal basis for the adoption of a strategy for agriculture and other strategic documents in the agriculture sector which are of paramount importance. I want to look back on last year, which was economically extremely difficult, incomparable both in the world and in the Republic of Croatia. The Covida-19 pandemic has affected a number of negative movements and has changed business and thinking on a global scale from the root and raised a number of questions. However, Croatian agriculture managed to meet the new challenges and positive trends were recorded at the end of 2020. We can conclude that many years of huge investments in agriculture have begun to produce concrete results. According to the State Statistics Institute data we've heard several times, but some still don't believe and repeat as parrots that agriculture has stagnated. In fact, the data clearly states that growth has been achieved in 2020 compared to the previous 2019 and these values have increased by 7% in the agricultural activity. Gross additional value increased by 12.4%, net additional value increased by 16.9%. Factoric income increased by 14.1%, business surplus mixed income increased by 15.1%. Entrepreneurial income increased by 15.8% in 2020. It is important to note that in the past year, the Ministry of Agriculture has paid nearly 7 billion farmers, which is 20% more than in 2019. And that is the largest amount with the largest share of EU funds ever paid. Namely, in 2020 and in the last days of the Croatian Presidency, Regulation 1305/2013 on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, which enabled measures 21 exceptional temporary support to farmers and.../incomprehensible/... which were particularly affected by the Covid disease crisis and made available to Croatian farmers an additional 360 million kuna. Thanks to part of Covid’s measures to assist the wine sector through wine distillation measures in crisis cases and support for the crisis storage of wine this year’s wine envelope has the highest use since as much as 94%. About 76 million kuna was invested in Croatian winemaking and winemaking in 2020. The amendments and additions to the Regulation on European Maritime and Fisheries Funds are also foreseen for the purpose of the mitigation of the consequences of Covida-19. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, and 121 million 339 kunas more than in 2019, respectively. [[Intruder Voter: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37669	Thank you very much. Please be careful on time. Stay please have two replicas, perhaps even through the replicas you can say something that you haven't arrived yet. Dear Representative Rose Vukovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37670	Thank you, Vice President. So, dear colleague Djakic today, you spoke twice on two occasions about the payments of support or the increase in the payment of support, so I don't know if you've listened to my free speech, I'll remind you if we're talking about 2020. According to the agency's data, the majority of the cookies went to companies in Forte Nova Group, Zita, Vupik, Vajdi, Kutjeva, Enver Moralić, PIK Vinkovci and similar companies, so every year they break a spear about whether or not such a system is fair. And I'm going to tell you right now that there are actually about 70,000 OPGs in Croatia that are not in the support system at all, so I'm wondering if you personally consider that there has been an increase and if it has come to you is such a fair system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37671	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37672	Thank you very much, colleague Vukovac. Many times we have broken spears of being just that it is not just, I personally believe that those who most produce, who most export, who contribute most to agricultural production should be safely and further stimulated, not neglecting the OPGs who often do not know how to fill out the forms in order to get the support they need. And there's the Advisory Service as well as the Ministry and the Agency's officials always supporting them, directing them to those who can help is certainly the best thing. Do not criticise what is good, it is well shown through these results that are visible, indisputable, which talk about increasing agricultural production, increasing exports, reducing imports, and that is what actually delights us at these years when there really has been an increase in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37673	Thank you very much. You have another replica, distinguished representative Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37674	Dear colleague, I am so pleased that you too are engaged in agricultural matters of importance for the Republic of Croatia, so please, and there is, if Mrs. Minister can help you, how will you solve a decade-old, more decade-old problem in our village where we come from more or less. We remember when we were kids that we lived and went to school from eating extra cow, pigs, turkeys, chickens, I don't know what not and you fed it and took it somewhere to the fair, got the money and lived. Tell me when it will come to Croatia again, and what is the problem not to come? It's not true that it's not worth it, it has to be paid, people who are worth food know, stay in the country but have no one to sell it to, and we're hungry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37675	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37676	I'm glad you're doing agriculture in that winery part, as I'm sure you are. I'm not sufficiently directed to where your agricultural production is, but here I heard you have a share of agricultural production. And today, as always, the markets of agricultural products are full of our grandmothers and aunts, take a walk in Dolcem if you haven't long, look, look at Trešnjevci, look at all the posters in all the places. You want to come to Virovitica, it's full of pay for our agricultural products with good prices.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37677	Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted the replicas in your debate, so you can go to your seat. Thank you. We're moving on. The following is the honourary representative Josip Saric for the individual debate for participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37678	Honored vice presidents, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I will try in my own way a little comment today on the topic that is being passed through the adoption of this law all the time, and that is the question of the state in our agriculture as it is. This part of the assembly must think it's catastrophic, we from this part of the assembly think it's much better. Namely, this data quoted by counterpart Djakic also increased 20% of last year's agricultural investments speak extremely big shifts. So I wouldn't agree with everyone who's said here that the situation in agriculture is catastrophic, that it's bad, that nothing works well, that agricultural land is unprocessed, the fact that it's just saying the opposite. I will now quote on the example of Vukovar-Srijem County, you do not have a hectare of untreated agricultural land, you do not have a hectare of undeminded agricultural land, so I do not think it is good for the general public, because of the general climate in agriculture and among farmers to speak with a tone that does not stand. I should think of speaking in fact the way it is, so what's good to say is good, and what's not good to say is not good and why it's not good. The issue of livestock production was also mentioned here, and how to increase it, so here is what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing with our minister, through these programmes of building reproductive centres, through a policy of dividing agricultural land in such a way that they are conditioned by the number of conditional throats, cattle in this way we will certainly improve the situation in livestock production. And here are two concrete examples, to discuss what is concrete, the Ministry of Agriculture Virovitica-Podravska County, Vukovar-Srijem County, the municipalities, the Čadjavica Municipality, from Virovitica-Podravska County, the town of Otok is building in the area of these two counties, so together with the ministry of two new slaughterhouses, therefore very valuable two important projects that help will primarily those that we often mention here today, and we advocate them, these are smaller OPGs how to increase livestock production and how in some ways to increase the meat industry. By building these two slaughterhouses for which, which they have entered the project of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government, the “Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema” these two slaughterhouses will certainly be two drivers of the development of livestock production and the development of the meat industry, I repeat, to us especially, so for the OPGs and smaller producers. What is good to say is that at this point and the capacity of these slaughterhouses in relation to the general state of capacity of the slaughterhouses will certainly help in this sense the competitiveness of smaller OPGs, smaller producers, especially those dealing with therefore kitchen production in Slavonia, which will be one, I would say, in their development. This meat production in this way, and we know that our meat is still the best quality, would be GMO free, anti-tres free, antibiotic free, so we would get really two concrete projects in two counties, a concrete, concrete increase in production, a concrete increase in livestock production. So here, through these two examples, we can see what the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and us as JLS, so the county, municipalities and cities are doing specifically and how and how we can help our peasants, so here we are, and the OPGs. So this concludes and this is the confirmation of this very often criticised project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" here in the assembly that it does not produce results. Here are two concrete projects that will be worth about 40 million kunas and concrete aid to people who are engaged in agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37679	Thank you very much. You've got a couple of replicas, and first of all, it's that distinguished representative, Zeljko Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37680	Thank you. Dear colleague Saric, I didn't understand this a little bit when you said you on this side of the pay phone think it's not good, and we on this other side think it's better than it is. Compared to you, I am a producer and speak from the heart and speak sincerely with the intention of improving agricultural production in Croatia and making it a better life in the country, I am not interested in the issue of political options whether they are left, right, but rather in improving agricultural production. I don't think I'm a big producer, but I'm bigger than all of you together here who deal with agriculture and compared to you I've produced 250 tons of food in the last year, I don't think that's very insignificant, that's significant. So let's not share when it comes to agriculture because we are all from the village and as Stjepan Radic said, "We are all peasants in the soul except those who have no soul".
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37681	Okay, here's something else... Here you go. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37682	My dear colleague and I am a child from a farm family, my brother still has an O.P.G. today, he deals with agriculture as you do, and I greatly appreciate his work and the work of all the people in my town who are engaged in agriculture. It's a hard job, very often ungrateful, very often invaluable, and that's why it needs to be understood. It wasn't my intention to share it here on, I said that you're more critical of who, I'd say we're more realistic about it. I think we can all agree on the fact that this situation in agriculture can and should be better, which is exactly what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37683	Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37684	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice-President, the esteemed minister. Comrade Saric, you mentioned well what I did not say in my presentation about slaughterhouses being built in your county, but also in ours. If it wasn't for capacity, it certainly wouldn't have been built, no one was building anything, but here, as you can see, I can forgive you anything, but success is hard. It is not only slaughterhouses to be built, in Virovitica-Podravska County there are also dairy and cheese that will also meet the needs of our dairy producers. So is the Technological Information Centre, which will help farmers, as well as craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37685	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37686	Yes, I agree with my colleague Djakic that here we also confirm on these examples that there are really good projects and I repeat this in the municipality of Čajvica from your county one of the good projects. I still have one brief comment to make, I was assistant minister from 2006 to 2008. And I have some experience, and I'm allowing myself the right to see a little state of agriculture then and today, and there's still a lot of shifts. and responsibilities always, always responsibilities. [[Intruder: Thank you, next...]] [[I'm a bencher. I'm a liability.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37687	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37688	Thank you, Vice President HS. You spoke of synergies between state, regional and local authorities and good positioning and projects that are necessary precisely for the areas from which you come. I absolutely understand and support you there, what I'm a little sorry is that it's not like that and in my county, if it were much better for our farmers. But you were also talking about slaughterhouses, and they can give an example of where a small municipality made a small slaughterhouse in one industrial zone, and with that slaughterhouse, farmers in that area got one extra security because when one relationship is made between the one who produces and the one who later and places it on the market, those farmers decide to invest even more, even expand their own And increase the number of throats compared to that, to those places where it's not there. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37689	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37690	Thank you, colleague, and here is the commendable example you speak of in your county of a private initiative or project that has been realized. I will repeat this is an example of the construction of these two slaughterhouses right on that market of livestock production and meat production very interesting because it is a synergy of the ministries, counties, cities, municipalities and producers. That's what I forgot to say that we sent them to be partners with us in this project both in the Čajjavica municipality and in the island city and to be those who will in some way create and lead politics within that slaughterhouse and in some way protect their interests. I repeat again, the interests of the smaller ones that we very often mention here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37691	Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37692	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice-President, the esteemed minister. Comrade Saric, you mentioned well what I did not say in my presentation about slaughterhouses being built in your county, but also in ours. If it wasn't for capacity, it certainly wouldn't have been built, no one was building anything, but here, as you can see, I can forgive you anything, but success is hard. It is not only slaughterhouses to be built, in Virovitica-Podravska County there are also dairy and cheese that will also meet the needs of our dairy producers. So is the Technological Information Centre, which will help farmers, as well as craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37693	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37694	Yes, I agree with my colleague Djakic that here we also confirm on these examples that there are really good projects and I repeat this in the municipality of Čajvica from your county one of the good projects. I still have one brief comment to make, I was assistant minister from 2006 to 2008. And I have some experience, and I'm allowing myself the right to see a little state of agriculture then and today, and there's still a lot of shifts. and responsibilities always, always responsibilities. [[Intruder: Thank you, next...]] [[I'm a bencher. I'm a liability.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37695	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37696	Thank you, Vice President HS. You spoke of synergies between state, regional and local authorities and good positioning and projects that are necessary precisely for the areas from which you come. I absolutely understand and support you there, what I'm a little sorry is that it's not like that and in my county, if it were much better for our farmers. But you were also talking about slaughterhouses, and they can give an example of where a small municipality made a small slaughterhouse in one industrial zone, and with that slaughterhouse, farmers in that area got one extra security because when one relationship is made between the one who produces and the one who later and places it on the market, those farmers decide to invest even more, even expand their own And increase the number of throats compared to that, to those places where it's not there. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37697	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37698	Thank you, colleague, and here is the commendable example you speak of in your county of a private initiative or project that has been realized. I will repeat this is an example of the construction of these two slaughterhouses right on that market of livestock production and meat production very interesting because it is a synergy of the ministries, counties, cities, municipalities and producers. That's what I forgot to say that we sent them to be partners with us in this project both in the Čajjavica municipality and in the island city and to be those who will in some way create and lead politics within that slaughterhouse and in some way protect their interests. I repeat again, the interests of the smaller ones that we very often mention here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37699	Thank you. The next replica of the distinguished representative Anamarija Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37700	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my question actually went that way. I have to congratulate you on this project of building a slaughterhouse and admit that I didn't know about that fact until now and in addition to being commended I want to tell you that in my area which is a little further west than you exactly the problem of the lack of slaughterhouses being recognized and cattlemen complain about it. So there's potential, they want to produce food, but here we have a problem with the shortage of slaughterhouses so that just the synergy mentioned by fellow Totgergeli and what you're doing is necessary. I really hope from the heart, I think, and even I'm sure that this fact of yours will certainly encourage someone else to do livestock and meat production, and I hope you agree with that finding and that's why you went to the slaughterhouse building.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37701	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37702	I thank my colleagues, so here we are, so as you know about your problems, so they know about the problems in all our Slavonic, not just Slavonic, all our counties in Croatia. But this will certainly be me saying one of the ways and models how and in other environments to implement these projects, and of course I believe in the name of the Minister and on behalf of our counties and of us who are partners on this project that we will help everyone who wants to work on something like this. The more we talk here, the more we talk about EU funds. So also about the money we have a chance to take advantage of now. So let's be smart, be wise, be operational, show that we know how to do it, use this synergy on both the left and right sides of the assembly and build good projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37703	Thank you very much, it's from the replicas, you can go to the place, and we're moving on. The next application for participation in an individual debate on this bill is the distinguished representative Ankica Zmajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37704	Respected vice presidents, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, agriculture is the oldest activity and very important economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. The Agriculture Act is a fundamental law that sets out primarily the objectives and measures of agricultural policy. These proposed amendments and additions to the Agricultural Act will bring the law on EU legal acts, the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, provide a legal framework for the adoption of a strategy for agriculture as an act of strategic planning of the area of agriculture and rural development. Then, regarding the organisation of the internal market, a legal framework is introduced for the adoption of a specific programme of support at national level to promote our Croatian agricultural and food products. A food waste programme, objectives and mandatory measures will be defined to prevent food waste reduction as well as to improve the food donation system. A very important newspaper is a public publication of data from the farmer's register in order to more effectively control agricultural policy measures in order to increase transparency and control the monitoring of agricultural policy measures. Also, monitoring the state of agriculture and planning of agricultural policy, creating local and regional strategies and implementing projects of public interest, as well as tourism promotional purposes, and bringing development to us in local communities in the future of our villages. The electronic agricultural card shall also be added through the increased digitisation of specific processes and the submission of support applications for all users of rural development measures. Last year, the application and use of an electronic agricultural card which was well demonstrated through reduction of administration, savings on time and money savings began, and replaced existing cards such as green agricultural card, blue diesel card and cards to use plant protection funds. The first and most important task is to provide the Croatian population with sufficient primary food production. And by setting and providing new measures, we can improve agriculture. The Government of the Republic of Croatia stressed the strengthening of Croatian villages and agriculture through these amendments and additions to the Law on Agriculture and the envisaged measures seek to improve agricultural policy. Despite some shortages in agriculture today, progress is increasing. Here are the indicators for 2020, saying that the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia has opened growth compared to 2019, where the value of agricultural activity has increased by 7%. As we have heard here today, aid and support to farmers increased in 2020 where the Ministry of Agriculture paid about 7 billion kunas to farmers, which is 20% higher than in previous 2019, and of which is 5.5 million kuna from European funds. Replica, no replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37705	Yeah, there's no, there's, I'm sorry, I thought you'd take the time to the end as usual, but you were economical. The first replica of your presentation is the first and only one of the distinguished representatives of Anite Pocrnic Radošević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37706	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Zmajic, you pointed out that the Ministry of Agriculture paid 7 billion kunas to farmers in 2020. Tell me to what extent has this support helped farmers in your municipality since you come from Vrpolje municipality where you are and the chief, it is a small municipality with about 3,500 inhabitants like most municipalities in Ličko-Senj County, in fact not most but unfortunately all of them, so I wonder if these support was enough for small municipalities or simply has room for further promotion of agricultural activities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37707	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37708	Thank you very much. Anita colleagues, meaning Vrpolje municipality support, have been implemented through rural development measures, which are measures 4 and 6 and these measures have also been consumed in the Vrpolje municipality and a lot of OPGs have been reported and achieved meaning grants of EUR 20 000, EUR 50,000 for the purchase of agricultural machinery or up to EUR 1 million for reconstruction and construction of agricultural facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37709	Thank you very much. You're welcome. Let's move on. Dear Representative Romana Nikolic, the next one has been reported for participation in an individual debate, please welcome distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37710	Thank you, Vice President. Today we are discussing amending and supplementing the Law on Agriculture, and in the light of the law as one of the most important reasons, the need for amendments and additions is cited in order to comply with the State Inspectorate Act. We remind you that the State Inspectorate Act was published in the National Journal on 20 December 2018, and the State Inspectorate started on 1.4.2019. That's what he says about almost two years ago. The Agriculture Act did not comply with the State Inspectorate Act, which is also the case with a number of other laws in the area of agriculture, e.g. The law on food that isn't even in the e-consultation procedure. During the adoption of the State Inspectorate Act, a package of amendments to all other laws in the area of agriculture was to be prepared because legal uncertainty is firstly created, and the system itself is set up for years without a plan and a clear vision. In addition, when it comes to this ministry, we would like to inform the employees who took the application back from the advisory service and the Croatian Agricultural Agency after the government's decision to abolish these institutions concluded the new Labour Treaty with a delay of over a year. Furthermore, the European Green Plan was adopted in December 2019 with the main objective of making Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050, and the central part of the Green Plan is the Strategy from field to table, preserving biodiversity, sustainable agriculture and rural areas and a number of other policies. Why has the European Green Plan been adopted? Well, it's been said that small and medium-sized farms can make the most of it, but despite being adopted a year and three months ago, we're not talking about it, nor is there anything about it. What gives the impression that the leaders of our agricultural policies don't understand him at all. And today, instead of discussing a new law that incorporates EU guidelines on the Green Plan and Strategy from field to table, we bring amendments and additions to the law that correct mistakes caused by delays, negligence, irresponsibility or ignorance. We know the total value of the recovery and resistance plan for the Republic of Croatia amounting to EUR 6.3 billion of grants and EUR 3.6 billion of loans for the period 2021-2023. Since the plan is not given to the public, we are looking for information on behalf of farmers and entrepreneurs from the competent ministry on how much of these funds are intended for agriculture, fisheries and rural development, or private investment in these sectors. We demand that the Ministry of Agriculture prepare as soon as possible a plan to develop strategic documents and direct payment models in the Republic of Croatia so that farmers and entrepreneurs in this sector know when the completion of the drafts of these documents is expected including examples of calculating the indicative date, the start date of the public debate in which they, as well as the public, could participate. I appeal once again to our agricultural policy strategies to stop and start making decisions that will benefit our farmers and ultimately all of Croatia. If they don't do it soon, this little farmer is going to go down, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37711	Bravo and you are finished early, thank you very much, you have two replicas, the first one is the distinguished representative Martine Grman Kizivat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37712	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleague Nikolic, when you mention that the Ministry of Agriculture has been in line for many years with the State Inspectorate Act, I am interested in your opinion that you comment on the fact that the adoption of the Agriculture Strategy will be adopted in 2022, around 2020 to 2030? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37713	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37714	Thank you, Agent Grman Kizivat. Well, since the Ministry isn't doing its job the way it should, to be late for everything, to me, what I'm interested in is when I get that strategy, how much it's going to cost, and it's going to be 2 years late.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37715	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37716	Thank you very much, ma'am. Vice President. My colleague Nikolic, you have touched a very interesting question I must tell you in response to which I would like to hear, which is the National Recovery Plan whether or not it will apply to agriculture, some percentages have already been given. But what's actually the saddest colleagues is that apparently some journalists have already seen that national plan and we're still having the same thing as the National Development Strategy. Journalists see some documents before we should decide and discuss them in a qualified manner. Not to mention how much wisdom there is in some long-term planning but everything is ad hoc, as we have seen with sugars, delays in sugar beet production, etc., and on the other hand, we have a mystery of how to spend the money we have at our disposal, the government is not giving any signal that it will be deployed, let alone to us who, in the end, need to decide but also to those who should be users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37717	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37718	Thank you, Agent Hajdukovic. Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are an economic, demographic and socially devastated area. Six months ago, we pointed out and called on the government to react on time and not to allow a complete shut-down of the factories and thus the loss of jobs. What did they do to that? We've been accused of cheating on the public, and today we don't even have a factory in Virovitica, and we don't have a factory in Osijek, and the county is on the air. We'll be left with empty Slavonian villages, empty streets, and people will leave Slavonia with their belly after bread. And they accuse the SDP government of each call instead of taking jobs and solving this problem and giving everything they can in their power to save every job in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37719	Thank you, no more replicas. We continue, the next application for participation in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Željko Lenart. Here you go, buddy. Just to get a little disinfected, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37720	Thank you, Vice President. Here is today in this debate we have already said a lot, each topic has been touched, but unfortunately we will not change anything for the near future for agricultural producers, and they have a very important future for their survival. The other day, it was a year since the Covida-19 pandemic, and unfortunately we haven't learned anything from it in the matter of food, to shiver and to realize that self-sufficiency in food production is very important in these cases of pandemics. Lucky for us that the supply chains from Western Europe worked, the convoys drove, the centres supplied themselves, so we weren't hungry. If it were different, I believe we'd have a big problem and wonder what we were doing 30 years ago. I think we need to develop more agriculture science because we're a little low, we've dried up in the seminary, we've also dried up in the education of our producers. They attend lectures that are mandatory to attend often at will and often listen only to something from slides that they learn very little from. I think at this point, and I'm witnessing it on the field of fellow producers, who are even bigger producers than me, to learn from each other that without any significant advances they are entering production, and agricultural production is very sensitive to soil as a parent substrate for production, preservation of its fertility and its structure, and then we have long-term mistakes and long-term problems that are very difficult to correct. One of the big problems is the mechanism that is being bought every day is getting bigger and harder, so today if you have a tractor below 200 horsepower, it's a small tractor. However, tractors are emerging, especially in the last year, the kind of harvest we had. The harvesting of corn and the weapon that was this winter here this spring afterwards. Through the funds, through many opportunities to achieve some kind of support to buy machinery is often bought what farmers don't need, so if you didn't buy a new tractor you didn't in, because when you came to the store you don't have a new tractor. When you visit Germany, France and Italy you can certainly see that people use much older mechanisms but that is functional and does not need to buy a new tractor if you do not work with it 1,000 hours a year, it is minimum. We've been over-capacitated with too much KS per hectare to be maintained and to be financed normally. I think that an integral part of this law should also be a law that regulates and green energy in agriculture, renewable energy sources stemming from the functioning of agricultural economies. Unfortunately, despite the support we can't say they're small, every year it's harder to produce. And this year he's collected seed material. And what's happening on the market is the lack of seed corn. And we had a recent seed law where we wanted to lift the farm seed. I think we should give it up for at least a while to see what's going to happen to seeds and the supply of seed material that's necessary for production because we know that corn is a hybrid and that it can't be taken from a farmer's seed, but that's why it can be from its wheat. Many of you have said this year that last year there was an increase of 7% of agricultural production. Last year we had a nat average year in the production of wheat, corn and soy and don't be fooled that we raised agricultural production but we had a good year, so we raised production. The tragedy is that we're about to take it all out of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37721	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on according to the order of the reported. Next in line is Honorable Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Before that, a little disinfection. Thank you. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37722	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, so Croatia has a Minister of Agriculture, here I now see her after a long time to sit there and listen to what people who have been elected by the citizens who should represent her say. But I'm worried you know your colleagues and colleagues because while listening to us there you can't think about the new measures of the Ministry of Agriculture how to prevent and all the great moves of HDZ policy and its consequences, as well as sitting here and listening to what we say cannot represent the interests of Croatian producers, Croatian consumers and Croatian citizens in the EU. It's sad how reactive we are, but I've talked about it before, maybe the minister doesn't care, but I'll repeat it for the Croatian public and for it, Minister, if you don't know how to represent Croatia's interests in the EU, you have someone to ask in this House and beyond, but don't, don't make fools of us, say that we can't change some things, and we can. Likewise, colleagues and colleagues, we do not distinguish what this regulation is, and what it is, the European Commission's directive. Most often our officers, and then our officials who are supposed to be dealing with this topic, don't know what the difference is, they don't even know what to do with it, so most of the time it's just that we're copying each other into our law that's not good. The directive is something that leaves much room for manoeuvre to adapt to our conditions and our producers, so if we speak specifically about agriculture. The directive has an intensification or intention, and how we will reach our goal, or intention, is on us. The regulation is something else. But I'm telling you, I'm afraid we're wrong about the directive to rewrite them instead of thinking and thinking about how to implement them in the best way for our opportunities and thus damage both our producers and our consumers, and finally our citizens and the interest of the Republic of Croatia. I also have to say something and notice because I cannot be taken from the impression that we live in some parallel Croatian colleagues and colleagues, I have listened from this pay phone about raising agricultural production, about export growth, about... flowering roses in Slavonia especially as regards agricultural production. Well, colleagues and colleagues sometimes I have to tell you that statistics are the exact sum of incorrect data. And I'll tell you exactly what the data is, it's that 200,000 people from Croatia moved out by 2019. in the last five years, so let's say from 2014-2019 maybe a little shorter. This is an exact information about how we protect the interests of our citizens well, how we do the regulations well, how we do the project “Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem”, how we plan well, program and develop. 200,000 people. I wish we had statistics on exactly how many agricultural producers, but that percentage I can tell you from my own experience is not negligible. People who are in the strain of strength, who should give the most and could give the most decided to search for their happiness somewhere further. And why is that? Well, these are fruits, measured fruits of the program. The project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem", is the only one. These fictitious export growth is all nonsense for colleagues and colleagues, they can say it out loud and clear from this pay phone. If someone's going to convince me that, say, our sugar shop couldn't save itself, and that one's selling you fog, too. In the trade with the Republic of Bulgaria, as I said earlier today, and there is no negligible trade in goods at an actual amount of as much as 8% 2019. was falling off on sugar. A huge export product, not raw materials from colleagues and colleagues, but a product with added value, with production capacities in Croatia and employees there. And the late reaction, reactive reaction and insufficient reaction resulted in 200 jobs in the East of Croatia less today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37723	Thank you very much. Your debate has caused a series of replicas, so let's do this in a row. The first is the distinguished representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37724	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Hajdukovic's mention of sugars, and I can't help but ask him how well they're doing, they're planning our Slavonia. I'm curious to know what you think will happen to sugar beet producers for whom the ministry aims to ensure the production of the queen of war culture is introduced by a three-year support programme?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37725	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37726	There will be nothing colleagues, those who have produced products will continue, but these are all insufficient quantities. These measures were not taken with a view to continuing to produce them, but with a view to increasing the area under the sugar tail. Did we make it? We're not because the surface is constantly falling, falling, falling, and after these measures have been implemented. And I'll remind you just so in 2017 we knew that the quotas would be abolished, until 2019 we didn't do anything, and then in 2021 we were surprised when the measures we didn't bring in in time and we didn't think enough they didn't give us the results. And then we were wondering who the turkey was, you know what, then it was something unspeakable. Well, I guess we're also taking some measures to be quantifiable, to change them and adjust them if they don't give results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37727	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Shashin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37728	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. From your debate, I do conclude, or we can see, that you are talking about the lack of regulation, not accuracy, that there is a need to further standardise something, that much is left to solve in the rules, etc., you obviously think that any situation would be necessary to predict everything by law. I'll remind you that it was the late Emperor Francis Joseph in Austro-Hungarian, eventually lost himself in that pile of legislation, and we know how that country went, so here's a lesson to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37729	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37730	Comrade Shashih, let me tell you as a professor of history, Joseph II, not Franjo Joseph, but fine. Okay, well, I didn't mention it in this debate right now, even though I've said it before, I'm not a supporter before the norm, it's impossible to overlook the situation, but I'm not a supporter of the bogeyman or anything. Unfortunately, I'm afraid in this session we're looking at the trend of getting more and more left out under the norm, or that we're getting more and more insane that some rules are being handed over more and more than the law. It is the derrogation of the Parliament of colleagues because some things we must arrange here for this speaker and in the political arena. Those implementing things need to be regulated by sublegal acts, but if we regulate everything by sublegal acts then we have given Parliament power to the Government then there is no point in us discussing or existing here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37731	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37732	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic, you mentioned how we actually blindly follow the directives and the difference to the regulations, often we do not go into some adjustment to our terms and now I am plagued by the fact that, according to this new directive, natural spring water becomes source water. We know that the producers of natural spring water actually branded their products, it has some quality, do you think now that this title under this directive might lead consumers astray, not only in our country but beyond it? And another comment, the rule on these natural mineral and natural spring waters will now need to be changed again, so there will be some adjustment for five years, and again there will be some kind of directive that we might be changing in a year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37733	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37734	Thank you very much. Comrade Marić, pulling the parallel with this last thing you said, we often changed the legal acts here or the laws, and then would not adapt other regulations that we should have adapted. For example, when we changed the Family Law, we did not change a whole series of other laws that the changes in the Family Law required. Now imagine the chaos when we do it to sublegal acts, when 4, 5 ministries or ministers must give consent, etc., how long it will take, what will it be, how much it will cost us, how much it will cost in implementation so I could talk about it by tomorrow, maybe not from this particular example, but certainly from an example of education where I come from. Another thing that might be more important to me for this topic of ownership or concessions these sources have somehow been executed and about it more rarely anyone talks about, and with Fort Nova's arrival, with the collapse of Agrokor many things have happened, some contracts have been signed again, who are the owners, who are concessionaries in the end are not public data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37735	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grman Kizivat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37736	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Hajdukovic, while you are already saying that we are in line with EU directives, I have to make sure that this copy-pass business done by the Ministry of Agriculture is not even able to do it on time. Furthermore, when you mention how many people have left Slavonia, I must also suggest that this number will be much higher. We know that two sugars closed, a project that you and I were working on in time, will be a number of people who will, of course, leave our Croatia. And the only thing we can hear from the ruling ones is that the main reason for the loss of sugar and sugar tail production is the only fault of the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by the SDP, and I must conclude that it is already the third minister in the HDZ government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37737	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37738	Well, colleagues in 30 years as much as is in power in HDZ, as much as SDP is with partners, so these ratios to discuss are a little declassified, so maybe I wouldn't work. But what's more important now when we talk about sugars, unfortunately this is already a done deal, and the sugars that have been closed will not be reopened. Unfortunately, this also shows European practice, and no sugar cane ever opened again. But what about the one that's left and not just her but the other processing industry that's left behind in our tracks? How will we adapt to the European Green Plan, or how will they adapt to the European Green Plan? The emissary unit has grown terribly in price precisely because of this plan, and what does the government do to help producers not in money, not by not giving them money but by overcoming this period and giving them enough time and logistics to adapt to new conditions? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37739	Thank you. Let's move on. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37740	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you were talking about how the sugars were closed, I would just like to remind you that Virovitic Sugarana had twice its collapse at the time of the SDP authorities, twice ended up in bankruptcy and recovered by 2013. Or '14. When Mr. Jakovina lifts the quota for 10,000 tons of sugar tail to the Virovitic Sugar, it's the beginning of the end. The price of sugar on the world market is also another cause that has hit our sugarcans and we believe the canned Sugar in Virovitica will not stop, then it still packs the sugar produced in Županja and continues to drive the sugar liquid that goes all over Europe as well as Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37741	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37742	Thank you very much, colleague Djakic. This kind of problem in the sugar industry isn't new, it didn't happen overnight, but we missed the reaction and we missed it reacting in a critical period before the quota was abolished, that's the first thing. The fact is, we only reactively did two years later, the second fact was she had a collapse, she went bankrupt, but she didn't close during the SDP government but was kind of a miracle during the HDZ government, so if we're going to talk about facts. We warned last year, so we didn't invent the subject of this problem yesterday, Col. Nikolic said several times after this speaker, I didn't hear anything from you about this issue, nor from your colleagues and colleagues who were elected to both the 4th and 5th constituency, absolutely nothing. So if we're talking about this and the problems then please keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37743	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, the esteemed representative of Sinisha Yankee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37744	Dear Representative Hajdukovic, you mentioned the excellent moves of HDZ policy, and I would remind you, as Mr Djakic said of the excellent moves of SDP policy on Minister Jakovina, on the distribution of land that we still have today and on the basis of which we still have problems in agricultural production today. He would also remind you, and statistics like you said the sum of incorrect data, but he's talking about something, so the value of agricultural production in 2010. It was at the level of 21 billion that during the SDP government fell to 15 billion that are finally coming back again as we see at 19 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37745	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37746	Thank you, fellow Yankee for this replica. Well, first of all, if I'm a professional historian, so I like to go back in history, but I think we should be more forward, maybe I'll visit you on all those skeletons left by the government of Jadranka Kosor and Eve Sanader who started falling out + still a global economic crisis + everything else that's left to the government of SDP and welcomed, so putting it in the same context just doesn't hold water. As for the distribution of land, you've changed the law, which is the result, even more chaos. Now the mayors and the mayors share the land, don't share the land, at the end of the country use those who are the first Zarah, I don't see that there's order and wherever you move in Slavonia and wherever you bury, everyone complains about it. The land has, people are even willing to take it and disembark at their own expense, but they can't legally use it. Why? Well, I'm sure it's because of the great laws the HDZ has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37747	Thank you. You've responded to all the replicas, you can go to the scene. We continue, the following for the debate, a single guest, Goran Ivanovic, has appeared, please, a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37748	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President. I'm going to start with this last thing that was said here, and I think if we don't get rid of it, we're not going to bring good things to ourselves or the villagers who are so busy here. If we had understood one thing, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem would have long been empty if the people of Dalmatia, like, Herzegovina, had not moved into them and decided to live there and create better conditions and conditions for life. So let us not, in this pathetic way, approach the problem that is enormous, which is great, which is life for those people who listen to us right now and expect certain solutions from us. I'm a new parliamentary representative, for the first time in HS, and I'm a member of the Agriculture Committee. The 18th session was held so far by the Committee on Agriculture. - Mrs. Crescent. Anamaria Petir, who is the chairman of the committee and the minister who was on each committee, listened to what we, who people have chosen to sit in this honorable home, represent their interests and try out problems that did not arise before the age of 2, 5 years ago, at the time of Jakovina, Jakranka Kosor, Ivo Sanader or anyone else, these are complex problems that we have. Data, only 12.8% of people in agriculture are under 40 years old, 40% are over 65 years old, and only 7.1% of those are highly educated. These are structural problems, it's not a problem that can be solved here in half an hour or an hour by statements, by populist performances, it won't help our farmers. We need a real story about agriculture that I would say, here I am for about seven months, and I think we've been running a good, good story and a good debate over the past seven months when it comes to improving conditions for our farmers. That's very important. There was no association here today, the merger is one of the important things. Cooperatives, farmers must, must gather in one place, not everyone can act individually for himself. I'm going to say a good example from my Slavonia, and it's a cooperative in the Beketins run by a wonderful man who's circled all the people who want to see and cooperate in agriculture that way and I'd say he's doing a good practice. The second thing that I think is important, and it happens, that's what we heard from the debate and Mr. Saric, and Mr. Djakic, the minister was in Osijek on Monday, we need capacity. Without building the capacity that will guarantee our farmers that the price that is at harvest time will be quite different after 5 or 6 months will be much more expensive goods will have where to store the goods and wait for that more favourable moment. That's what you have right now with the price of corn. The price of corn at the beginning of the harvest was about, like, 95 kuna, and now it's already rising to about 130-140 kuna. Now, these are the actual terms and conditions that we have to deal with. Construction of the Regional Distribution Centre in Osijek or Osijek-Baranja County is a very important foundation for some agriculture we want to talk about in 5 or 10 years. To talk about Croatia being able to produce food for itself and that it still feeds half of Europe are floscules that contribute nothing. Do you know how many Ukraines there are only acres under the grain? Five million acres, five million acres just under the grain, not to mention other cultures. So we go when we talk about agriculture in a way that we talk about numbers, facts, and what our people who sent us to this honored home suggest that we represent their interests. Therefore, I think Minister Vukkovic and her entire team are working well on this. In the last few weeks we have had points here that are closely related to agriculture, and of course unfair commercial practices are certainly one of those that destroys Croatian agriculture and Croatian producers. Therefore, we have a vision, we have ideas and ultimately we will find ways to lead Croatian production or agricultural production to what was the beginning of the 1990s, which is EUR 30 billion. Here, that's the goal and that's the task we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37749	Thank you, three replicas. First distinguished representative of Anamarija Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37750	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I am very pleased that you have returned to this topic today and debate where we are talking about agriculture which is an important topic and I am even more pleased that you mentioned association. Therefore, the necessity of association with cooperative producer organisations, as you have set the example, is to implement agreements on some common plan production, on uniform quality, prices which would actually lower production costs, increase the quantity produced and certainly our joint farmers would have better incomes. Today, producer organisations are current in EU Member States, while in Croatia only in recent times they are gaining real importance. I'm curious, do you think that in recent times Croatian farmers will start to associate more, use these examples of good practice and, above all, to make them stronger and, in some ways, the competition of farmers from the EU has been falsified. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37751	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37752	Thank you very much. Of course, without association, we'll be lagging behind, without association we'll be spending all the money we need. This was said by Mr. Lenart, and I agree with his debate that not every family economy can have 250 horses, one small of 110 and only one for a ride in a village of 80 or 90 horses. That's not good, not to mention all those machines that are needed in the first place for such a single tractor to be operational in order to be economically viable. Therefore, we need to talk more about association, we need to create frameworks to bring people together without fear, to see their opportunity and, of course, to see more profit than it might now, and it will certainly be bigger if every farmer does not insist on his machinery park but can use what already exists just needs to be distributed differently and naturally join.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37753	Thank you. The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37754	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Ivanovic, I agree with your claim that the state and problem of agriculture is very complex. And I don't think we should politicise it at all and talk about it in a way that HDZ or SDP did but talk coldly and soberly about which solutions we offer. It has often been mentioned here today that villages leave young people and that they are farmers. Believe me, my experience is that it's those farmers that don't move out, the other people who had reasons, they didn't have jobs, and they left justifiably. The situation in agriculture is solid, the mechanism is extremely good and we are facing this problem of association that we are talking about today, and that is something that is a very complex issue, a challenge for the ministry to learn, how to motivate, how to educate farmers to join together, a very complex and serious issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37755	Thank you. The answer of a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37756	Thank you very much. Here's the part I've already said something about it. I agree with all those who in today's debate have pointed out that the problems are extremely difficult and have not arisen a few years ago. Let's be honest, in the '90s, strategic mistakes were made. And that's a fact. The destruction of large processing and food combinations in particular Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema has been caused by tectonic disorders. It was the combination of the food they had harvested in their fields that turned them into a final product, and on the other hand, what Joseph was talking about, young people were doing in these combinations. It was very important, and it happened that those combinations were practically gone. Another big problem we haven't said anything about is the return of the country to the Count's families. One of the major problems that have caused problems in Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37757	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the esteemed MP, Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37758	Thank you. My colleague, I must admit that you've made your argument quite realistic, and I'm glad you mentioned the cooperatives. Also, if we are looking at realistically, we must recognise that Croatia is neither nearly organised nor successful in the agricultural sector compared to other EU countries, especially in terms of the fertility of the country and in view of the processing areas that we possess. What I find interesting is that you mentioned the price of corn in your case, but also how we're going to motivate and give a wish to work on that farmer when we have an example of a potato that can be found for 2 kunas. In case we take into account a ton of potatoes, it means if they're on larger quantities it goes below 2,000 kuna which is absolutely unrealistic. We know how much it takes and the effort and the time and the baths and everything to put into it. So how do you feel that this desire for production can be restored in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37759	The answer of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37760	Thank you very much. That's right, by preventing unfair commercial practices. This is what Croatia's agriculture, in general, puts the Croatian economy on its knees. And there is no speech, as long as we don't count on it in a way that the Croatian product must have a competitive price that we can't go, we are now not even going with dumped prices, but are going with predatory prices. Therefore, it is something we must fight, and we must win that victory in any way. And I'll say something for the end. There's been a lot of sugar debates here, sugars. If it were me, the price of sugar wouldn't be less than $11,12 per kilogram. Why? Sugar is a serious health evil like we raised the price on cigarettes, alcohol, and sugar. Sugar is something that creates big problems that we'll only feel in 5, 10 or 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37761	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of the God of Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37762	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a colleague of Ivanovic, and when I listen to you from the party that ruled Croatia and the current government of Croatia, it has ruled the Croatian past, since the last 30 years. Over 20 years. HDZ was run by the Ministry of Agriculture, HDZ. When you're talking today, so it doesn't seem like now that I'm criticizing you, it seems to me like you've been sleeping some winter dream or I don't know if you've clicked a button in your head and you've got amnesia. You, for example. You mention, I don't think I can react when I'm in a non-bulose assembly, you say something's happened in the last 30 years, we've failed businesses. Who'd they fall for? To me or to you who ran that ministry for 20 years. Of the 30th? Who'd they fall for? Raise your replicas. Secondly, here you warn your colleague Ivanovic not to be populist because if they talk too patheticly about moving young people out of Slavonia, then they are populists. You know what? You insulted your prime minister, for Christ's sake! Well, he spoke to you last year. We have to take care of Slavonia. Slavonia's moving out. Did you maybe call him a populist or is he out of this category? I'd beg you to come out here and watch your step. If you don't have anything smart to say, then shut up. But you can't pretend something didn't happen, so Slavonia is screaming to you that something happened. So you have a situation today in Slavonia, it's not populism, that you have 10 km of road at 8pm doesn't burn any light in the house, is it pulsism, is it pathetic? It's not pathetic, it's true, it's a fact and it's made by HDZ because it's 20 years old. of 30 years. ran by that ministry. So, you want responsibility, responsibility can, but then take it to the end. He's competing in every election, so take it. And now let me just briefly return to the famous sugars you mention, which are mentioned here, etc. It's said they've been in trouble before, they say this one's going to work. You know what the condition for sugar candies is? Over 10 to 11,000 hectares of land planted with sugar tail. You know what level you're at right now? On the 11th. You know how many you were in 2017? At 20,000. For 50% in the last 3 years. the land was planted with sugar tail, which is why your sugars were put out. And when you tell me we'll keep it, which, when you're destroying production, you don't pass laws that protect production. And it's not just a sugar tail thing, so you're in the last 2-3 years. drop 10 to 15% milk production, etc. And so on and so forth. What are we gonna talk about? Some of your projects that you said you'd start a type of food donation system in 2019. What food donation? You wrote it back in 2019, today it's 2021, a dead letter on paper. In 2022, you will bring a strategy of agriculture that has been going on since 2020, what are you going to retrograde the strategy? We're going to talk about your leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture when we have 500,000 acres of unprocessed agricultural land? I'm not mad at you, I'm not complaining, I want to warn you. All this has happened if tomorrow's gonna be better, but don't make me a fool, don't sell us a story here. I can't support a law where you have a situation that can't even implement what you wrote 3 years ago. Don't make fools of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37763	We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of the Shashin, here you go. I'm sorry, the respected representative of Ivanovic before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37764	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Petrov, first of all, I'm not a member of your club so you can tell me what I'm going to say here at HS's pay phone and tell me what I can and can't do. Secondly, unlike you, I left the same Slavonia yesterday morning at 5am, and I will return to it if God gives it on Friday afternoon and so on for 54 years. I've visited every village in Slavonia, Baranja and Sreme, talked to people and some of what they've told me I want to spend time with these beautiful people sitting here with me in something that will bring good. So there's too much pulsism, demagogy, it's absolutely true, the 3-4 phrases that spin around here don't bring anybody good, and there's no concrete solutions. I'm for concrete solutions, so if I have to admit the mistake, so I'm the first one to admit it if she's going to make it better tomorrow, I'm the first one, my hands are clean and I have no problems at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37765	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37766	Yeah, but I haven't heard an apology yet and that apology is important because the apology is the beginning of a new story, a new station. But now that you say it, I'm ready for it, I haven't heard it. But even if you don't apologize because you don't need to, you need to do something, you want a concrete solution, you finally give 500,000 hectares to farmers, bring the Law on COMMASSATION, bring the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices as it suits the public, bring it, finally start watering the agricultural surfaces, all waiting. Who's he waiting for? I know where the minister came from. Shall we talk about irrigation around the Konavo field? We're going to talk about the unallocated state land in Opuzen, in the records? But it's not just Obuze, Ploca or someone else, it's everywhere in Croatia. There are concrete solutions for you, but don't talk, you started talking 30 billion, when you don't know what you're going to do, you throw out a billion-euro car waiting for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37767	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the next respected representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37768	Dear Mr. Petrov, I'm surprised you're in politics, and you have such short memories. Let me remind you what happened in the last 30 years in the Republic of Croatia. First came the Homeland War, 15 thousand gone, over 15 thousand people destroyed villages, cities that were to be restored together. There have also been changes in the economy, huge changes, shifted from one system to another. Just tell me, in our environment, which states have had 30 years of weight since the Republic of Croatia? And in which countries of the former, should I say, what do they call, the region, are now living better than in the Republic of Croatia? Be realistic for a while, at least sometimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37769	Dear Representative Petrov, allow [[I'm very real.]] First let me give you my word. [[I'm very...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37770	I'm very real, all of what you said stood up and it happened 30 years ago, you said it well. I, when I was giving you information for sugar tail, I was speaking from 2017 to 2020. Since 2017, in the last 3 years, your sugar tail production has dropped 46%. Can you hear me? For the last 3 years, your milk production has dropped 12%. That wasn't 30 years ago. [[Intruder: Even throughout Europe.]] That was the last three years. Let's not play games.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37771	The next replica of the respected representative Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37772	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Petrov. Well, I'm also a young representative, but I appreciate you as one serious politician, both at the time and President of the Parliament. I haven't heard such a demagogue debate as this one in the assembly today. So with that tone, you're looking at us from HDZ, sending us some messages, like a professor or maybe a man from your profession, you're telling us to take responsibility. My dear colleague, I took responsibility in the '90s. Sir, when I took a gun in my hands, like my colleagues here, I have seven terms of trust with my citizens, and I'm going to get it now and eight times. Watch out, 7th term. You win in your city seven terms, but trust you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37773	Dear Representative Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37774	So I don't know if this should be answered at all. You're telling me you're doing good because you did what? Now I'm gonna be rude. A misleading number of people in your neighborhood? I'm not gonna say that. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. I'm talking about something else. [[Intruder: Decoy you seven times.]] I'm talking about agriculture. You're asking me about possible solutions. I gave you possible solutions, you answer me, who runs the Ministry of Agriculture? Who was supposed to rent agricultural land and didn't? Who was supposed to pass the Law of Compassion and didn't bring it? Who should have passed a good Law on unfair commercial practice, etc., etc. And when I address you, I address you because you are currently in charge of the state, you are the majority that raises hands for that part, that part of the government, that governs our country. So I want to watch maybe the SDP? What? Should I put my head down?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37775	Thank you, thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the Sinisha Yankee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37776	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Now, here's a heated debate, so I might look back on the debate, as my colleague Petrov didn't say much about the law, but rather spoke to his previous speaker, so I would just remind him, when we talk about the adoption of the law on unfair commercial practice, your colleague minister was a 10 month minister, so he had the opportunity to pass that law, he kept it in a drawer like the previous Minister Jakovina, etc., and here finally in 2017, the Law on unfair commercial practice was passed, and a few days ago the same law was amended and in line with EU provisions, just as soon as we're done with this pay phone, and then allow it. He would also remind you of the contracts, and Mr. Hajdukovic also talked about it, you know, when you give a concession to someone in the land at 25 years of age, then you can't take that property away from them. It's the same fact and the truth. So someone booked the land for 25 years. And normally, when you go through with the contest, etc., if we're legalists, and we have to be, then you can't take someone's land because then you'd be back in another time after II. svt. The war, and of course, we're fighting for democracy and we want to be democratic. It's only that long since we've been waiting for each other. Here, I would still go back to this law, i.e. amending and supplementing the Agriculture Act. There is talk of harmonising with the acquisitions of the European Union, the European Union and what no one has mentioned, I would certainly say that a single provision is very important, it is to appeal to the decisions of the paying agency in agriculture, exactly the procedure as well as to file a complaint to the competent administrative court against the solution, meaning this law and the amendment of the law allow all those in the tender procedure to be able to in some way to complain about the decisions of the Agency and may also seek their satisfaction and jurisprudence through court proceedings. The Agency for Agriculture Payments is a very important agency because it calls many competitions, it is also important for local self-government, especially measures 7.2.1, 7.2.2., which concern both road construction and every case, water supply, sewerage, also, here, construction of kindergartens and various needs in rural development. It is also important for our small farmers for the OPGs. Here is how much measure 6.3 is set for me and how much information I have very much OPG has come to this extent, so I am using the opportunity to draw attention to the minister so that they may consider increasing the location precisely to 6.3 because we have information that there is far more interest than we have available. If we had money, it wouldn't be a bad idea to think about it. The legal basis for the adoption of a support programme for projects that contribute to the reduction of food waste. Since then, food has been a problem that we all know, and it starts from every single individual, from every family, from every household. It also comes from the economy, so all that food that in stores, in stores means where the food comes from, it creates and one significant problem, and this opens up the possibility of creating new programs and bringing and finding new solutions. These amendments to the law also allow the application of a legal remedy against the solution of agricultural inspection. The State Inspectorate. We know that agricultural i.e. inspection and all matters relating to agricultural and veterinary control, etc. goes into the hands of the State Inspectorate and in this way enables the model of regret, the model means dispute and it is good to define it in this law. When we talk about agriculture, I would draw attention and mention the surplus exchange of agricultural and food products where we currently have a surplus of exchanges with Bosnia, Italy, Kosovo, Japan, Montenegro and these are the countries from the environment other than Japan, but that should be done and normally it is a difficult process and there is still much work to do as regards the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37777	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37778	Mr. Yankee, do you know why the Law on unfair commercial practices was passed in 2017? Because you scared your government because you couldn't cheer and dress for state-owned companies. And the prime minister wasn't on the button, so it was half a year late. And to introduce you, I heard one thing you said 10-15 minutes ago, do you know who approved the projects of Jakovina as Minister of 680 million kuna? Your Minister Tomislav Tolusic sat in the minister's chair of agriculture, and his current agriculture minister was then his secretary of state. So I'm saying don't be amnesty. You need to know what you've been doing and how you've been harassing these ministries. Don't, I'm not doing this, but I'm not gonna let you keep us out of this. We know something in this country after all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37779	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37780	And you're doing this here, you're definitely doing it, everyone can confirm it. Well, here's Mr. Petrov, you've had a chance to change the laws, you've had a chance to participate in power, but you didn't want to because you've been doing politics, you've been dealing with it, so I'm going to tell the circus, and I'm going to use your sentence, your speech, and who's to blame for it. So you could participate today in power, you could correct what wasn't wrong for you, but you chose another time yourself, and now I know that it's hard for you and you're sorry, but you're yourself responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37781	Dear Petrov has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37782	The Honorable Chairman was injured in Article 238, and I will risk the warning you will give me to warn a respected colleague that I did not have the choice he was talking about. If I had the right choice, I'd be doing a crime and then I could be with you. Only one who commits a crime can be with you. I didn't want to do it, so we stepped down. And with your methods, I disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37783	Well, of course you get a warning, actually the first thing that wasn't related to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the second thing that you insulted actually the agents. We've got the next line, the distinguished representative of the brick billic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37784	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, you said that you passed the Laws on unfair commercial practice in 2017, it is so good that here is the change of 25 out of 35 of its articles. The Ministry of Agriculture did not, among other things, make an impact assessment to which Article 34 of the applicable law bound it. Your comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37785	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37786	Well, clearly, normally, if you read the first sentences of the law on unfair commercial practice as far as memory recalls me, it is about harmonising with what has changed and the provisions that have been made since 2017. The unfair commercial practice of newspapers is not only in Croatia but throughout Europe, and this law is being developed and this law will certainly be improved. And if you remember, there's been a lot of changes in that law and a lot of improvements. So I don't see where the problem is that we should be tortured and ashamed of what is normal if the European Commission makes some changes normally we are part of Europe, so we need to adapt to everything that the state commission brings. And here I will take the opportunity to answer to Mr. Petrov, you've called us all thieves, and here's a little thought about the way and the speech you use in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37787	Thank you. We have one replica, we have another replica of the respected representative Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37788	I agree with your finding that the situation in agriculture is solid, that it can be better and that it will certainly be better. Also, this topic that we've been commenting on here, the issue of agricultural land management. We've already heard one amazing thing today. I was the assistant minister who signed that, so that we could share the HDZ with the country or any other country. So people, someone serious in the Parliament say that kind of thing, really, really doesn't make sense. And Mr. Petrov, I need to remind him a little bit. At a time when he was in coalition with HDZ as the president of HS, when Mr. Oreshkovic was prime minister, the agriculture minister was a man from your quota, Professor Romic, so Professor Romic could solve all problems before Tolusic, and even before today, Minister Marija Vuckovic would not have any problems today. You had your chance. You haven't solved it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37789	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37790	So clearly, for years it's been talking about land concessions and every concession tender is subject to verification and every competition is checked. However, it was required in this House to move away from the ministry to call for tenders, to land on local self-government units, and then as I recall, it wasn't good either, so does the perfect system exist? Well, there are concessions, there are tenders, and like I said, every competition is subject to control, complaints, changes, etc. There are, thank God the regulations of this country that we should stick to, and I think it's all clear here, and the Bridge gentlemen, they had a chance, they could still sit behind me today, but they didn't want it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37791	Now we're going on, the Honorable Representative is up. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Thank you Chairman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37792	It is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. Well, I've been waiting all this time for you to shut up, but you're not going to keep coming back, you're going back for a year to rule of the Bridge. My Realtorland, no one's ever been in power except HDZ. 14 thousand people less than the 2001 census, a complete devastation of all the plants that fed the Imot region, displaced and devastated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37793	Representative Kujundzic, you are being warned because Of course, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I beg you, all agents, let's not abuse it. This has really gone on for weeks, weeks, too far. These abuses of the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure have made it pointless. I'm going to propose to the Parliament Presidency that it be abolished, that institute doesn't make any sense anymore. You all use it exclusively as a replica, it just doesn't make sense. It is knowingly used to compromise the Rules of Procedure in some way, it is not right. Come on, let's take some of the rules of the game we set out ourselves, shall we? Can I help you, Your Honor, Mr. Petrov? You're looking for a break? No, then you can't get the word [[No, Your Honor.]] You can't get the word [[I was just going to pick up the word, tell you something.]] No, you can't get the word, colleague Petrov, please sit down. [[Intruder: I was going to suggest that you suggest an increase in the number of replicas...]] You get a warning from a colleague of Petrov's. [[Intruder:... not yet abolishing the new institute.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37796	Thank you very much. So, Your Honor, I finally want to point out a few more questionable situations related to the Agriculture Act. Therefore, as regards the transposition of Regulation 787/2019 relating to strong alcoholic beverages, please bear in mind the preamble to a regulation which reads, in definitions and technical requirements for strong alcoholic beverages and categorisation of strong alcoholic beverages, traditional practices should continue to be taken into account. Specific rules should also be laid down for certain strong alcoholic beverages not included in the category list. I would like to remind you that we are witnessing recent media announcements of daily newspapers and electronic portals related to the published results of inspection controls carried out by state inspectors in the period between 20 January and 16 March 2020, and the subject of surveillance was the designation of wine and strong alcoholic beverages placed on the market. The use of Croatian traditional terms, quality wine with controlled geographical origin and high quality wine with controlled geographical origin has been identified in the exercise of those controls in 5 controlled subjects, in wines not originating in Croatia, but originating in Italy, the North Republic of Macedonia and Chile. Despite the fact that the proceedings against those offenders have certainly long been justified, the public did not know what legal and physical persons were involved. I also believe that the system of importing or importing food products urgently needs to be made far more transparent than it is today. It is necessary to monitor strict compliance with import rules with clear and public declaration of type, quality and origin, primarily food products from customs, i.e. borders to consumers, and to quickly available to the public and to the general public official import statistics. So I'm talking about imports from third countries. Furthermore, in line with EU ambitions to promote local food production, the state should therefore, without higher costs for the state budget, support the technological and market strengthening of regional processors in full or partial ownership of the producers themselves. This would significantly improve the negotiating status of small producers. It is more than obvious that Croatian agriculture has great potential and that it represents a resource that is not even close to being put into office, but that it is more likely by manipulation and systematic neglect of the value and efficiency of the countries that are similar to us. The decision whether it will stay that way depends on us or we will wake up and take the reins into our own hands and begin to manage the production processes responsibly or the remaining perspective of the country's importing food, often suspicious origin, but also the quality, rooted landscape, empty villages and dissatisfied people. And for the end of one question to our distinguished minister, Mrs. Vukkovic. Dear ministers cried on Sunday, crying watching the show "The Fruits of the Earth" and in it a young man from around Daruvar, sending his milk cow to the slaughterhouse. A cow is a small factory, two years of effort and concern and advocacy need to get a cow from a calf. Why is this happening to us? Why, for example, a cattleman in Austria, can survive with a dozen cows on his holding, and our Croatian farmer can't do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37797	The next final one will be the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which Martina Grman Kizivat, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37798	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Finally, to warn and highlight the key things related to the amendments and additions to this law. One of the most important reasons is the need to amend and supplement in order to comply with the State Inspectorate Act. Once again, I recall that the law was passed on 20 December 2018, so the ministry has been harmonising for two years and has not yet agreed properly. This way, once again, we appeal to reason and simplification of the inspection procedures because it is one of the necessary tools to manage the Ministry of Agriculture. The whole process is now more complicated, slower, more inefficient in all areas as well as in the area of food safety, and as far as I can see, it is not fully legally harmonised. The European Green Plan was adopted in December 2019. with the main objective of making Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050. The central part of the Green Plan is the Strategy from field to table, the conservation of biodiversity, sustainable agriculture and rural areas and a number of other policies. It was written that these small and medium-sized farms can make the most of it, but here it has been for a year and three months as it has been adopted by us neither being spoken nor anything about it, which is even worse, it is the impression that the leaders of our agricultural policies don't even understand it. And today, instead of discussing a new law that incorporates EU Green Plan guidelines and Strategy from field to table, we are making amendments and additions to laws that correct mistakes caused by delays, negligence, irresponsibility or perhaps ignorance. As regards food donations, the Ministry of Agriculture has again missed the deadline for the transposition of the Directive in the area of the prevention of waste from food, which was received and written a notice from the European Commission, of course a delay again. The strategy will be adopted in 2022. for the period 2020-2030 What do you say? But I believe she'll be paid more than too much. As regards the act of strategic planning in the Agriculture Strategy, it is said that the ministry will prepare a bio-economic strategy that is not listed in the National Development Strategy. At what stage is the preparation of this strategy, who will prepare and with what funding and when is the first draft planned? The proposed basis for the adoption of a specific programme of support at national level to promote Croatian farmers. Since the reasons for amending the law states that no additional financial resources are needed for its implementation to implement the programme and to which it will be targeted, we are looking for information. We are witnessing that the Ministry of Agriculture took part in opening the Shop to Croatian products, so we do not know whether the programme is also targeted in this direction. Along the way, we would like to stress that individual EU members in this area have all the special legislation in place, and we are planning to arrange this through the programme. Another harmonisation is significantly delayed, and this is the delivery of data in the milk and milk products sector because the HPP ceased its work on 1 January 2019, and the Ministry of Agriculture takes over these transactions, i.e. the paying agency, so full two years after the end of the HPP. I could list so much more for you, too, but unfortunately I don't have enough time. In conclusion, we point out that a set of laws in the field of agriculture on the HS agenda clearly speak about the chaos of business in the Ministry of Agriculture, is delayed by the harmonisation of the legal framework, the adoption of programmes and strategic documents which result in a lack of agreement between agriculture and entrepreneurs, but also of civil servants who, in the resulting situation, as well as an increase in costs due to such a non-consistent way of working where systems are established for years without vision, wish to achieve other than cheap political entanglement of similar ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37799	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and will speak to the respected Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. Representatives and deputies, ministers with a co-worker. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank everyone who participated in the debates today, both on this law and on the previous law, because we've been discussing it all day. I can say that most discussions were both constructive and well-intentioned to contribute in some way to improving the situation in agriculture, which shows that this issue is extremely important to all of us and that we want to review our own decisions over and over again in order to achieve better solutions. We should keep in mind when we are discussing agriculture that we have actually adopted a common agricultural policy, but also a common market, by joining the EU. Of course, it has many advantages on the one hand, but it also presents many challenges for us. The advantage is, of course, that through the common agricultural policy, very generous financial resources are provided for the future budget period, as much as EUR 5 billion for agriculture and rural development, but of course there are challenges that we are all deeply aware of that the common market except that it enables us to offer our products to all other Europeans who are 500 million consumers, or residents, which also means that products will come to our market that may be excessive in another Member State, which may not be the quality that we are used to, and which may be at predator and dumped prices. So here are the last months we have been intensively considering, discussing, changing legislation, making new laws in order to actually jump to all these challenges and to deal with them and prevent them in time, but we are also withdrawing certain instruments that are extremely important for our farmers to get the adequate support they deserve for the responsible and important work they are doing for us, which is the production of food and preservation of rural Croatian space. A recent Eurobarometer has been published that speaks of 51% of Croatian citizens seeing very important agriculture and rural areas for our future. These 49% believe that the main responsibility of farmers in our society is to ensure a safe healthy food of high quality, and 35% think that the main responsibility of farmers is to encourage and improve life in the country. They are considered and agreed that the common agricultural policy is in fact intended for all European citizens, not only farmers, and 70% of them have heard of the support granted in agriculture, but they do not know enough details, and here I see space to inform more of our citizens and farmers about what opportunities we have. So our proposal is that, given that the amendments to this law will create conditions for the adoption of a strategy of agriculture that has been developed and which is actually now entering its final phase, a strategic plan that is important for us to reform the common agricultural policy for the future seven-year period will be developed to include the sector and the interested representatives we see much so that each of them can help us through certain proposals to really get a good strategic plan that will help us design the best possible projects in order to make use of the money provided in the best possible way. However divided in attitudes, we still need to respect the information that is very clear. They also show a shift in the movement of witnesses to the State Statistics Institute, which is certainly not the establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture and has no reason to raise anyone. And this shift says that the value of agricultural activity is greater by 7% compared to the previous year, that our plant production is growing, that our livestock production is growing, that our exports are growing, that our imports are reducing and the deficit is decreasing. These are all good indicators we welcome, and once again we call on all those who are welcome to cooperate to support the agriculture and agricultural sectors together. manufacturers and rural space. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37801	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected minister, Marija Vuckovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37802	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives, gentlemen, I thank everyone for the debate, although I very much respect parliamentary MPs as has been said here several times I come to the committee meetings, as much as possible, listen to the remarks, I must say that, sometimes I am quite disappointed with the ignorance I hear at certain debates, and now we will go in line because this law, which covers most of the most important areas in agriculture other than agricultural land, was very broad, so I would first start by discussing the value of agricultural production and statements that everything is falling, that imports are growing, that the Croatian village has failed and so on. The first value of agricultural production according to the statistics that exist in Croatia was never 30 or 40 or I do not know how many billions of kuna or EUR. Economic accounts in agriculture have been closely monitored since 2005, at which point the value of agricultural production was around 18 billion and 600 of which were around 2 billion kuna. Data for the period earlier can be found if they are accurate in the 2002 agriculture strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament that same year, which said that agricultural production was slightly higher than 12 billion kuna in 1999, which is approximately 12% less than agricultural production in '91. years, so if we recalculate it, it's about 13 and 800. If anyone has other statistical data, we'd like to hear them because these are the ones that are officially the only ones available. So, in 18 and 600 2005, since the statistics were detailed and economic accounts for around 21 billion and 243, with a share of the subsidy being around 2 billion and 600, 2010, similar to that of 2011. In the same way, in 2013, the fall of 18.299 then changed the way the subsidies were calculated and the amount of subsidies was lower, direct payments were recorded in another way and structural support in order to have a free fall in 2014. Despite the very low value of subsidies, agricultural production was 15 billion 583 and this is the worst in statistics that has hit Croatia since the economic accounts worked in this country. Agricultural production has been growing in the last year, this growth has been the largest since 2008. He's 7%. As is said here today, a good part of this growth is indeed caused by climate benefits or climate conditions that favoured the production of cereals, and part of that growth is also caused by changes in prices to worse, however this is not the only reason. There was a 4% increase in livestock production, there was a 10% increase in livestock production, in cattle production by 5.1%, in the sheep and goat production sector 4.3%, and some are structural support means indirect payments, rather than a rural development programme that brings different valuable investment projects in which not only public money is invested, either from the euro funds, whether from the share of the state budget but also from those projects are invested by Croatian farmers and the food industry, and therefore they are good and therefore they bring the transformation of Croatian villages. As for imports and exports, it would be worth a little here without some demagogy to talk about this abnormal growth of imports very often spoken of, so I would point to data, I don't know if they came from 2012 or 2013, but let's say when we had to open up or when we joined the European Free Community of People at that time, exports of agricultural products amounted to about a billion euros, and imports of around 2,100, 2,200 now I'm not sure how in what year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The exports were one billion higher, and the imports were higher by one billion and 200, although we may be dissatisfied with the difference it fully slows down the data that we are not able to manage at all, it is an insult to Croatian producers whose exports have doubled since that year. And if we're going to talk about 2020, despite the special circumstances, exports grew 5%, imports decreased 7%, the deficit fell about 27% and the export coverage increased from 63% to 72%. It is early to talk about the trend, we will be careful, but we should believe in the success of our manufacturers who are increasingly equipped and who are increasingly competitive on the foreign market. Dear Representative Mrak Taritaš has rightly pointed out the application of the INSPIRE directive, so I will say that the Ministry of Agriculture intends to implement this directive in its part by the end of the year. As far as food donations are concerned, it may also be our fault because from work we are not able to advertise, here unknown that we have an e-system of food donation, that this pilot implements the Civil Society Association as someone here today suggested by parliamentary representatives, that we have had the growth of the market value of donated food in 2019. by 30%, for 2020, he had no final data, the year was specific but some estimates say that this growth is 13%. As far as the donation plan is concerned, we are introducing changes into this law because we want to include in it a donation programme, a support programme for intermediaries who today are 114, last year there were about 85, a year also significantly less and who share our system. They lack logistics, they lack means of transport, and we, with this program worth 38 million kunas, according to our plan that we will launch at the end of the year, intend to help them, us, all to reduce the amount of food waste. Support programmes cannot be included in the law, I understand these requirements, but support is changing, it is part of a structural nature, it is part of a seven-year period, and they are part of a rapid reaction to market disturbances that vary from year to year. That's why the law... lays the groundwork, and the programmes must be aligned with the acquis, and sometimes there are special reactions to special difficulties in some year and we will continue to do so. The delay in the law, so I think this is what the Ministry of Agriculture did last year in collaboration with other bodies and with the whole public a number of very important regulations, some of them are now being discussed in HS. They were very demanding, such as the Law on Official Controls and other official activities, the Agriculture Act must also be harmonised with the same law. Here is mentioned the Strategy of Agriculture, the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices, the Agriculture Strategy has been drawn up in time, the draft has been available for a year on our website on www.strategy2020.hr when we have drawn up the draft according to the law, according to the regulations we started to assess the impact on the environment. As far as I am aware, the Commission has positively assessed at its last session and will, in the next few days, and probably several days, both the strategy and the Strategic Environmental Impact Assessment ić will be in electronic consultation. How will the strategy, i.e. probably programmes, projects, activities foreseen in the strategy be financed in 6 groups of activities? So it will be financed through the multiannual financial framework, through the National Recovery Programme and through State budget funds. You are witnessing despite the difficult situation this year that we managed to increase the funding from the state budget for agriculture by 121 million kuna in 2020. Croatian farmers needed it, they returned it in the best possible way with growth and increased export competitiveness. Someone asked what we were up to with mountain products and island products? The Ministry of Agriculture supports all and non-binding quality codes but is now developing its national system, the national quality label for which the Regulation was submitted at the end of 2019 for EU notification, in the spring, to the European Commission, in the spring of 2020, has been approved for notification, and the specifications for how producer groups will be submitted will now be approved. It was first submitted by the apple producers and we will have a mark of Croatian proven quality. Someone asked us if the objectives of farmers, agricultural policies, for example, were the failure of pigmeat production or the failure of dairy production, of course not. As I said in 2020, pigmeat grew 10% despite the major turbulences encountered, and these turbulences and disorders that were large and which could significantly endanger the pigmeat sector were partially prevented, in part, by most of the producer's engagement, and by little and our interventions. We've had three interventions in the pork sector in the last three months. It took some five years. Milk production has been facing severe problems, but there has been years of growth since Croatia's entry, a fall since Croatia's entry into the EU has been halted in the last 8 months. We have a continuous growth in milk production, he's modest. It's also not a reason to, it's not a reason to believe, to be sure that it's a trend, but we'll, together with our producers that we're meeting tomorrow to do everything possible to make it a trend. Moratorium, someone mentioned a rise in land prices. It's an expected process. Despite many calls that this government will not succeed in obtaining an additional period for a moratorium for the sale of land to foreigners, we did so after exhausting analytical bases and negotiations with the Commission in June 2020. The law on the ban on unfair practices in the food supply chain was passed, adopted by the Croatian Parliament at the end of 2017, fully entered into force in April 2018, brought many positive shifts, which was properly assessed, and now we are changing it as all laws. In part, we harmonize them with legal gain, any time with regulations, sometimes with directives, in this case with directives, and also because we, as new years and new times are, experience in implementation can always show us what needs to be done additionally, which is possible to fix. Someone mentioned that this law was initiated in 2016 during a minister who did not come from the HDZ ranks, is, a good part of the draft was drawn up. The draft that was waiting for us as someone said in the drawers was not good, it was inconclusive and was not in line with the EU acquis. I'm sorry to hear that over 3,500 people have left Sisak even though I think the exact data is somewhere around 2,800. Every man is worthy and I hope that each of them will find a motive and will be helped by the public sector because it is his task to return to his home. And as for the Ministry of Agriculture, it has prepared several very important reconstruction measures. How the reconstruction is not enough is the reitalisation measure. Of course, measure 5 of the reconstruction program that tomorrow or Monday, but I think tomorrow is going to electronic consulting and it's worth 120 million kuna. As part of the revitalisation, we are preparing a series of start-up new measures, limited calls to address the earthquake-affected area. I'm sorry to hear that the markets died, as Mr. Lenart said, the representative, did not die working, and the Ministry of Agriculture said that it was published in the 2021 tender plan worth 2 billion and 400 million kunas have just indicated that this year's, this year's, this year's type of operation 741, which finances social infrastructure, markets as agricultural infrastructure, will have priority. Many have pointed out with the right that the support system should be fairer than it is today. Many of the amendments approved by the European Commission have been made to the rural development and structural support programme, and as I said, this is one of the biggest factors in the growth of agricultural production and food industry. The other day, we increased the alocation from the last market for the food industry from 300 million kuna to 462 million kuna. Yesterday we announced an increase for the operation within measure 6 that are current, Mr. Yankee asked for it. Although we do not have the funding in this year for this measure and for this type of operation for the development of small, young farmers of non-agricultural activities we have managed to find an additional 100 funds, and what we are particularly looking forward to is the fact that this time we needed additional funds for the operation relating to the use of renewable energy sources. So far, allocation has always been greater than interest. This time the interest is twice as much as the location, so we have approved an additional 100 million kuna, and this also speaks of the transformation of the Croatian village. Someone pointed out the possibility of a neighbor's lawsuit for different protections. Well, Croatia is doing the right thing in these processes, and so far, we cannot say that in any trial we have lost any process regarding the designation of origin, geographical indications, protected designations relating to wine or the like. We will continue to respect our neighbours, respect European law, and also protect our traditional labels and values. What about the field-to-table strategy? As I said, we developed a strategy for the development of agriculture, fishing is a separate document. We work means a multi-year plan to develop aquaculture, not a fisheries strategy because fishing is fully defined by the common fisheries policy. We're working on a national strategic plan. It's not going to work. It's starting to work. Of the 9 required SWOT analysis, 7. We coordinate with the Commission and follow the progress made twice a month. We'll be on time. It's incorrect that there are few farmers left. There's a large number left. You can make a comparative display of the size of agricultural production and the number of agricultural holdings across all EU countries, and you will see that this is not the case. 170,000 is a large number. But he himself if we don't see the value of production, if we don't look at the value of production, if we don't look at the age structure, it doesn't mean anything. It is important to produce, the demographic reconstruction of Croatian villages is important, it is important to grow, competitiveness and productivity of work and productivity of land use. Here's the plan is to draw up a strategic document that I've repeatedly asked for here, the strategy over, the strategic impact assessment on the environment over, the national strategic plan is done, the multi-annual cultural development plan is done. What about agriculture and the national recovery plan I would not now calculate on the amounts and shares of the national recovery plan. Agriculture participates with its programme, which it clearly distinguishes from its part of a multi-annual financial framework of close to five billion euros, and our proposals relate to activities related to the digitisation of agriculture, to agriculture, to building logistics missing capacities but not just for construction. We also need to prove the reform character of the food donation programme, waste prevention and poverty reduction in the Croatian village. This is where the Seed Act was mentioned again today. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, and I can accept the responsibility that because of the two non-jurisdictional articles, two items that are considered dubious and always questionable, and there are two readings that do not see clearly enough what great solutions are offered for the national list, for descriptive lists that point to differences in climate benefits for certain production, for a national variety list that practically does not exist because it has been difficult to process and for the development of the system of equivalence which will allow our seminary to have the same position as others in the EU, which I would like to stress that seed production is growing, that the growth of seminary has been 23% in the last year. And as for those articles that cause doubts in the Croatian public, the Ministry of Agriculture in cooperation with the MPs, in cooperation with all other stakeholders, will always, as with any law so far, seek to clarify the provisions, specify them, make them more unambiguously even more correct. It's nothing new. Certainly our goal is to protect our indigenous and traditional varieties, where the current situation is not good. They're almost gone. Only one percent of the vegetables are produced from our seed and that's what we're going to change between the rest and this law. Here I am in the House, invisible on the council boards as I am invisible. That is not to be specifically addressed. At the end of the day, sugar and sugar loss. No one here has said that there is still one responsible authority from 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37803	Thank you very much. There will be opportunities to respond eventually because it will be enough, we have plenty of replicas. The first is the replica of the respected representative Maric, pardon Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37804	Thank you, Vice President. Well, since I've also referred the same question to my colleague Hajdukovic, so here I'm going to ask you to listen to your version, so it doesn't turn out that we're just criticizing and beating up empty straw and collecting political points. So, dear Minister, tell us what will happen to sugar beet producers for whom your ministry has introduced a three-year support programme. Now I'm giving you the opportunity to continue what you haven't finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37805	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37806	Thank you very much. So, this ministry is currently developing a second support programme, a new support programme for the next period. As with everything we do, we will try to upgrade it with additional activities, but that will not be enough, so in the draft amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was in the electronic consultation from 4 December to 4 January, we envisioned priority in the allocation of land for sugar beet producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37807	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37808	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you said that food donations are growing but we are aware that the needs are great and that this is far from meeting the needs. Social self-service policies are often empty. The poor and needy are growing, and the food banks are still on hold. This is data from 9 months last year, and within 5 months, the ministry announced that a Food Donation System Monitoring Council would be organised to improve the bank's work. And next. Whether these banks, the food bank may be organised on a regional principle, given that perhaps some social self-services but also donors often have problems with accessing a food bank that would be at some national level. It means it might be on the regional principle. And in the end, do you think all of this should have been done together, given the plan to prevent and reduce the production of food waste? which was from 2019 to 2022? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37809	Thank you. The answer of the respected Minister Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37810	Thank you very much. Well, we did everything according to plan. The e-donation system, the engagement of non-profit indirects, the increase of the number of intermediaries in the food supply chain, which today is 114. Everything we could do with the national funds as you correctly pointed out by intermediaries really don't have the opportunity to get food, so this programme of support that we're creating, which we're not planning to finance for now from the state budget, but the EU's 38 million kuna funds come from them, from their need for means of transport, for logistics, and I hope that we will succeed. As far as the food bank is concerned, it will be in line with the guidelines of the feasibility study that we made last year, which was designed by an authorised performer, and by the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37811	The next replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37812	Dear Minister, I hope that you are familiar with a problem which we, there is close to 300th of Zagreb's OPG-ovci that we have properties outside of Zagreb and from vineyards... Maybe even olives, etc. and now, at the local and county level, we meet with one injustice, discrimination when they are discussing production support or support tenders, the password is tearing up the armatures, I don't know what you need there then they say you're not in Zagreb, then when we come to Zagreb, then Emil Ćuk says you're not in Varazdin, there is looking and they're balling with us and then I have to change the residence for example, and then come back, so are you anything about it and how to jump it? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37813	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37814	Small value support programmes approved by local or regional self-government units are given to the Ministry of Agriculture for approval, we cannot influence them in a way, we cannot influence them to choose their criteria, we can only confirm or challenge that they are in line with the European Commission Regulation No. 1408 from 2013 and its amendment No. 396 of 2019, which regulates the support of small value in the agricultural sector. I'm sorry if there's discrimination going on, I can't answer what we can do about it, I think that's a criterion that we can't influence. But also, the Ministry of Agriculture does provide a number of very valuable support that notified state aids, which support small values, make structural support through rural development programmes, so I hope they can help, and certainly we are open to discussions on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37815	The next replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, this discussion of yours would be three words, I'm sorry. I'm sorry the village's going down, I'm sorry the farm's going down, I'm sorry they're empty markets, so I'm sorry too. Well, I'm sorry that this resort is run without a vision from the dear minister. I am disappointed by the lack of knowledge, skill, and will to listen then to those who may have some knowledge. And don't make me a fool when you say the strategy was passed on time, it's all settled right. So Minister Tolusic said, now I'm going to tell you if 2016 or 2017, I think 2017, here's the strategy, it's printed, except it's only here on the table. It's been five years, minimum five years. If he's lying to me, I'm lying to you, but I want to tell you how missed they are. I see how you prescribe regulations and directives, so if you lie to a goat, you don't lie to a horn. And if you don't know, ask, so I'm not telling you because I have something against you, but because we want help to make this resort as good as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37817	Thank you. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37818	Well, I'm sure I can learn a lot from you about agriculture, about support and development, but not Croatian agriculture is going down, it's growing and we're going to do everything we can to keep that growth going and not only growing in 2020, in 2018 it grew 5.1%, in 2019. 3.9, but now he's got the fastest growth. As far as the strategy is concerned, I highly doubt that someone said in 2016 that they had it because the deep diagnostics preceding the strategy were ordered in October 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37819	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37820	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, it is impossible to make such decisions that all farmers are always satisfied with them. This also shows this debate today, often over a decision one part of the farmer is satisfied, another dissatisfied. However, you in the ministry are not your role to be satisfied with either, your role is actually to create conditions, rules and make such decisions that the system is arranged in a way that production is growing, that imports are falling, that exports are growing, and since the figures are also confirming then I think that what you are doing should continue to work in the way you do. And I have to mention, I'm glad that agricultural producers have recognized that it is good for their facilities to install renewable energy sources for their own needs and to withdraw more and more funds precisely to build such systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37821	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37822	Thank you very much. So the data, the arguments, the figures, the diagnostics and the constructive and persistent sectoral dialogues are what we're based on and what we're not leaving at any time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37823	The next replica of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37824	Dear Ministers, at least 5.2 million kunas are difficult, according to our knowledge, the alleged subsidisation of the Croatian beekeeper's alliance for which we find a criminal application against the two former presidents of the beekeeper's alliance, the parliamentary representative, our colleague, member of the ruling majority, Vladimir Bilek and Martin Kranjec, and two other directors. Today we talked about this, today there was a bill before this law where there was a conversation about beekeeping, and you're going to give this association or a professional association a mandate to manage Croatian beekeeping, is that true? Secondly, give me a brief comment and since there is not much time for the collapse of the sugar industry in Croatia and what have you done and what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37825	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37826	Thank you very much. So, as far as the Croatian beekeeper's alliance is concerned, he will continue to do about what he is doing, so most of the beekeepers are joined into the Croatian beekeeper's alliance, they are carrying out the pasture order and they will continue to do so in the future, and the amendments to the law are in the most part of the part relating to beekeeping dedicated to the protection of indigenous Croatian grey bees. As far as potential subsidisation fraud is concerned, of course we know it, we have applied and made 2017. that there were possibilities for irregularities to be identified, there were possibilities that they were not random, and we had also signed our application to the competent authorities who were authorised to carry out such proceedings, and as personally as the State Secretary at the time, and all the requests for return were not 5 million and 200, it seemed to me, somewhere around 2.5 million, 2 and 600.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37827	Thank you. Representative Zekanovic picked up for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37828	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a break from the Croatian Sovereigns Club for 10 minutes to consult further on this bill. So it's not $2 million and 600, it's 2 million and 42,000, I read that much a minute ago. You signed that document, I think you'd know in your portfolio a little more precisely what figures are, but you're thorough, I even praise you there often. However, dear Minister, you yourself said that there was "a fraud on subsidies", I quote you, malversion and the same association you give the mandate to decide on an important branch of Croatian agriculture, specifically about beekeeping. I really can't come to myself, I can't myself. The second thing, I warned your secretary of state today, and I'm going to ask you one more time, that's why I'm going to meet the Croatian public with one fact, for example. one of the largest honey producers in Croatia and in the Croatian Parliament places honey that has no declaration. The last time he had a declaration, the declaration was written about a mixture of honey from the EU and honey from other countries in the world. And that's the most normal thing you've ever done to me. So I am reporting this to you in the Croatian Parliament, and probably in all shops possible, to sell honey without a declaration that is a mixture of paved products that have nothing to do with honey. So, unfortunately with your inaction you work exclusively to destroy Croatian agricultural production and the most beautiful proof of what I'm saying is just the collapse of the Croatian sugar industry. And you didn't answer me, what are you going to do about it, given that 260 workers are out of work and there's going to be much more? Correct me, 259, probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37829	Thank you very much. We will, of course, proceed in accordance with 239 B. I approve your break but we will continue to work. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jura Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37830	Thank you. Dear Minister, first of all, I congratulate you on the good work and on the results that Croatian agriculture achieved in the past year. As you could hear for yourself, today we hear a series of lies about the collapse of Croatian agriculture, about the destruction of Croatian markets, the destruction of villages, all day by the opposition come constantly some data that has nothing to do with anything. You and your numbers and the data you're giving us, you're telling us everything based on valid statistical data. I would ask you, purely for the sake of the public, that our people and citizens, and also here, hear once again what the real data is from the results of Croatian agriculture in the last year? Can you also say something about honey and sugar? Here, so much for me, thank you. .
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37831	Thank you very much. Prior to his response, counterpart Zekanovic raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37832	Of course, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. 238. So, dear colleague Brkan has brought a few lies here, and the truth is that the Croatian village is...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37833	Well, that doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37834	...and Croatian agriculture collapsed almost entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37835	.../Intruder Reiner: Making false is not.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37836	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37837	.../Intruder Reiner: Making false./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37838	Will you let me end the breach of the Rules of Procedure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37839	.../Intruder Reiner: It is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, please do not abuse that institution./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37840	May I finish and you conclude, anyway my injuries to the Rules of Procedure... May I present the breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37841	You can't. Based on an article. 241st paragraph 1. I give you a reminder by taking away the words. ... Please sit down. [[Intruder Zekanovic, not understood.]] Here you are, dear Minister, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37842	Now I'm going to try to be precise, I'm sorry about the mistake earlier, that's the number I remembered after four years, I didn't repeat it. So production increased from 17.9 to 19.243 billion kuna. According to a second assessment by the State Statistics Institute, the data that has not yet been final has been better in recent years. The gross added value has increased by slightly more than 12%, which I think is a great indicator and is finally almost 50% in the value of total agricultural production. What does that mean? It's intermedial, it's still over 50, but it's not 53, 54 or 55 years ago, so that means that we'll soon have what we've created than the input that serves us for the value of production. The net added value, the factor income, the entrepreneurial income, all of it grew between 14% and 16%, and these are good indicators and there are more reasons for them, we will try to keep them together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37843	Thank you. Thank you very much, I would like to conclude the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Thank you, Your Honors Minister. Now we move to the next point, which is: - Report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2019 Can we be quieter, please? The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 10(3) Law on development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad and the National Strategy for Development Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2021 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected statesman at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Zdenko Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37846	Dear MPs and MPs, allow me to present a report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia for 2019. The report was prepared in accordance with the Law on Development Cooperation and humanitarian aid to the abroad and the National Strategy for Development Cooperation of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2021. Development cooperation is one of the pillars of Croatian foreign policy, development cooperation... the security, social and economic progress of partner countries but at the same time us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The positioning of international development cooperation policy in the external policy framework of action at European level has been established by the European Security and Foreign Policy Strategy. By increasing its national income in 2011, the Republic of Croatia gained the conditions for exit from the group of recipients of development and humanitarian aid and became exclusively a donor country. By joining the EU, we have joined a group of the most developed countries and one of the largest and most influential donors in the world. The EU allocates more than half of total global development aid, in particular 55.2% in 2019, totaling 75.2 billion euros in total. Dear MPs and MPs, a report presented today by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs on the statistical narrative and table review of the programmes and projects achieved by the official development assistance provided by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs according to the information received by the authority of the state administration and public institutions. The implementation of official development assistance by the Republic of Croatia has been decentralised, i.e. that the resolution bodies are implementing development and humanitarian projects, following the priorities of the national strategy, and are obliged to report on the same to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. 12 ministries, 2 central state offices, 2 offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, CNB, HBOR, HZZ and DHMZ reported and reported on the implementation of the programmes and projects of official development assistance in 2019. We also recorded official development aid at the county level. In total, the official development aid of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 480.84 million kuna in 2019. It is important to note that in 2019, the Republic of Croatia maintained the continuing growth of annual detachment for official development aid, compared with the total volume of official development aid in the Republic of Croatia in 2018, a 6% increase was achieved in the report. Allow me to remind myself of the agreement reached at EU level in the share of gross national income (GNI) which the Member States have committed to allocate annually on behalf of official development aid. That share of the so-called The old Member States account for 0.7% of GNI, while the level of allocation for the new Member States, those which joined the Union after 2003, is 0.33% of GNI by 2030. The allocation of the Republic of Croatia for official development aid in 2019 was 0.13% of GNI. We are aware of the importance of continuing to increase the allocation for official development aid, it is globally recognised that countries that are able should help those in need. Development assistance contributes to the implementation of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals adopted under the 2030 Agenda. The UN as well as global solidarity and humanity. At the same time, development cooperation means establishing a partnership with countries, strengthening bilateral relations and opening a long-term better perspective of economic co-operation. A total of 449 projects have been implemented by national stakeholders in the implementation of programmes and official development assistance projects. The majority of our official development aid relates to the contribution of the EU general budget to the work recognised as development aid. As well as a mandatory contribution to the European Development Fund, which amounted to 73 million and 500 000 kuna in 2019. For bilateral programmes and official development aid projects 130.81 million kuna and 27.27% were allocated. Based on one of the main divisions of official development aid according to the definition and categories of the Committee on Development Cooperation, the OECD, the most funds of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia in 2019 is aimed at development cooperation. 455.8 million or 94.03%. The rest of the 23.8 million kn or about 5% concerned humanitarian aid. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as a co-ordination body continuously encourages the authorities of the state administration to participate in development projects and we believe that progress is visible year after year. The share of bilateral development aid in the reporting period increased by 13% compared to the previous year. The reports are consistent with the geographical and sectoral priorities set out in the national strategy of 3 programme countries in three priority geographical areas. These are BiH in Southeast Europe, Ukraine in the eastern neighbourhood and Jordan in the southern neighbourhood. Of the sectoral priorities, aid was dominantly focused on the first sectoral priority of the national strategy, ensuring the dignity of every human being through the thematic goal of investing in education and health. As previously noted, the highest visibility for donors is achieved through direct bilateral projects. The Republic of Croatia has thus renewed schools, libraries and hospitals, trained and encouraged entrepreneurship in BiH, provided psycho-social rehabilitation to children at risk of war from Ukraine, built special playgrounds for children with disabilities in refugee camps in Jordan, for Syrian refugees, supported accession and pre-accession processes in potential EU member countries. The majority of bilateral official development aid was targeted at the BiH programme state, the government of the Republic of Croatia strongly and consistently advocates the need for cooperation and assistance to the countries of Southeast Europe for which Croatia has a special interest. This is particularly important in the context of the EU enlargement process and the preservation of the Croatian people and its heritage in those countries. The Republic of Croatia strongly supports BiH's development and stability as well as its path towards the EU. The team contributes to strengthening standards in all areas that are in the interest of BiH and all its citizens, including the belonging of the constituent Croatian people. This strategic policy definition of the Croatian government is reflected through financial assistance to more important institutions that guarantee the survival and equal position of Croats in BiH through their work, stressing that the protection of the culture and survival of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia and who have just appeared in BiH, is also our constitutional obligation. During 2019, 199 projects were implemented in BiH, taking the first place in BiH under a bilateral official development plan, taking the first place in the country's bilateral official development aid with 89.06m kuna allocated. The projects concerned the provision of assistance to education through the construction, renovation and equipment of schools, kindergartens and colleges, and the provision of healthcare assistance through the construction, renovation and equipment of hospitals, health homes and homes for elderly and powerless persons throughout BiH. For 15 individuals in unfavourable social and poor health status, one-time financial assistance has been provided, while summer programmes in the Republic of Croatia are organised for children from BiH. Also through the project is aimed at strengthening peace, security and development of democratic institutions, aiding the work of war veterans' associations as strengthening the skills of the Federation of BiH special police. In addition to the emphasis on BiH as a programme state, the Republic of Croatia continues to consistently advocate the need for co-operation and support to Southeast European countries, particularly in the context of the EU enlargement process. The transfer of national knowledge and experience from the EU accession process is particularly related to the provision of technical assistance through participation of Croatian experts through the TIs and Twing instruments is an adequate response to the real needs of partner countries and provides the expertise that is relevant to them. Croatia has also been active in numerous multilateral projects and initiatives within the UN, the EU and international organisations. During the reporting period, the European Investment Bank's Economic Resistance Initiative, aimed at countries on the migrant route and at the refugee mechanism in Turkey, is financially supported. Both focus on preventing illegal migration and easing their consequences, which clearly show that investment in development cooperation contributes to its own security and stability. Croatia also regularly helps the needy population in a number of humanitarian crises. In prolonged crises during 2019 We helped Yemen in cooperation with UNICEF, Iran in cooperation with the World Health Organization and Mozambique in cooperation with the World Food Programme. Due to the extraordinary humanitarian crisis in the Republic of Albania after a devastating earthquake, we have directed a Croatian search and rescue team to the State intervention unit of civil protection of Croatian Air Force helicopters, and we have additionally sent assistance to goods and transport organization in the amount of one million kuna. They only acted humanitarianly towards particularly vulnerable groups of the population. In this context, it is possible to spend holidays on children from BiH and the Republic of Serbia and children under international protection. asylum seekers. We have provided humanitarian assistance to individuals of unfavourable social status from the Republic of Kosovo, BiH and the Republic of Serbia. We also provided housing assistance to persons with approved international protection in the Republic of Macedonia originating in Iran, Iraq, Syria, Egypt and other countries. Finally, the methodology applied has been defined and verified by the Committee on Development Assistance, Economic Co-operation and Development Organisations. This methodology serves all world donors because it sets out unique rules that are referenced in the world. The rules change over time, so this year a new category of overall official contribution to sustainable development is included, the English shortcut TOZD. TOZD is in 2019. It was 23.54 million kuna. Through this category, a large number of projects have been included in official development cooperation, which would otherwise remain outside the scope of official development assistance, and that is mainly for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia over 200, but also for local and regional self-government units. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we can conclude, according to collected and analysed data in the report, that we are strengthening the involvement of national implementing stakeholders, and that we are achieving Croatia's visibility as development partner and donor, EU, OECD and UN donors. By strengthening Croatia's official development of assistance, we directly influence the strengthening of national capacities and the presence of Croatian implementation partners in the world, protecting and promoting Croatian foreign political and economic interests. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention, and I am at your disposal for further questions. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37847	Thank you very much. Please stay here because we have a whole series of replicas, 11, almost all present have come forward, so let's go in turn, the first respected representative is Mariana Petir, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37848	... Of course, the EU is the biggest donor and humanitarian and development aid, and Croatia as an EU member follows this example in the principle that assistance should be reached for those most needed, it should come into the right hands by protecting human dignity. [[Last-on speaker]] Our interest is particularly related to Southeast Europe, not only because of the people, the Croatian people in BiH, but also because of the Croatian national minority, especially those living in Serbia. I would therefore like to know how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will react to the latest developments in Subotica where it tries to de facto by one blow, by State impact on the Croatian national minority to recognise the Bunjeva language as official because we know that it absolutely does not correspond to the laws or agreements that exist on respect for the rights of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, but it is already an attempt to kill Croats in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37849	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37850	I thought this topic was a report, but this one reacted already to the ministry this... So that's already the first step. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37851	Next replica of respected MPs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37852	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the significant experience that the Republic of Croatia has in relation to neighbouring countries is an experience of EU accession for which economic, political and social transformation was necessary. This is now useful for countries with potential candidates in our neighborhood, these are countries with which we often border, and language barriers are negligible, which further facilitates potential cooperation. Is the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia sufficiently focused on preparatory activities for EU accession of countries in the environment and do they show interest in such assistance?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37853	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37854	I'm sure there's an interest. Development aid in this respect goes, or is in line with our goals for neighbouring countries to join the EU as soon as possible so that the Croatian minority there, or the constituent people in BiH, can better exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37855	The next replica is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37856	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Health... I went to see what the health situation was like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Department of Health set out 44.36 million kunas if I got it right. Most of all, there were dedicated funds for the settlement of the commitments made to drug suppliers and consumer medical material for BiH, up to 40 million kuna. Is this going to increase further, say, in 2020, what the situation was like if you had the information. And I was still watching these one-time financial aids. There were 15 individuals for BiH and 5 for Serbia. For BiH, 77,000 kuna is allocated. In what way do you actually say selecting individuals who are poor health status? Are they answering or are they being contacted? I believe more is needed, but here is 15th in BiH and 5th in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37857	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37858	She's decentralized. Thus, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, except in some cases alone, provides assistance to other institutions, so that the criteria are established by the institution that gave the aid. In terms of separation, you see the tendency every year to make more out for humanitarian and development aid. Croatia will believe to meet this plan by 2030 in the part of humanitarian development aid in the GNI. So 0.33% so the trend is growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37859	The next is the replica of the respected representative Nevenko Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37860	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. The report says that the traditional way of official development aid that involves money transfers is increasingly being replaced by technical and other non-financial forms of assistance that promotes transfer of knowledge and experience, learning. Appreciating all what the government of the Republic of Croatia does for the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, my question is whether we will see in the 2021 report the items of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Tourism through the transfer of knowledge and experience to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina because agriculture and tourism are our potentials, our development opportunities. It would mean a lot to us this kind of help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37861	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37862	Thanks for asking. Well, surely, so we plan to develop new development aid strategies so that all the improvements we have seen in the implementation of the so far humanitarian development aid will be included in this strategy. The Ministry of Agriculture and Tourism as bodies that have been involved so far will take into account the priorities of a country such as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croats living in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37863	The next replica of the respected representative, Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37864	Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you if you can explain how the building of capacity items in the area of asylum, visa systems, illegal migrations to seek international protection of people coming from Syria, Afghanistan and Iran amounting to 18.8 million have been found in this report. How do you think this item on acceptable and detention centers falls under development aid?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37865	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37866	So according to the OECD rules, that's what the report was made, and that's how it was included as help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37867	Next replica of the respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37868	Thank you. Well, here's a suggestion. In this list of projects on assigned assistance, let's say we have at the position of 107 a continuation of the construction of a residential and business building with the aim of demographic recovery, and the development of a municipality of 650 000 kuna. So this looks like what I don't know if you can explain to me what development potential there is. And it would be good to see in these reports, and who is the user helping you? So we don't know exactly who this aid was assigned to here? So this is my continuation of the construction of a residential building in Ravna, the municipalities of Ravna, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37869	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Zdenko Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37870	Well, that's a question of meaning for the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. This project is included as I have previously met OECD standards, so it is there for a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37871	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. After this debate, I would like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to receive clear support from the Croatian Parliament not only on this 2019 report but also on the financing of development aid in the future. I'm saying that because this report is about a year before the pandemic. It will be difficult to objectively explain and get political support, so if you want to and in the debates within the government there are also former ministers who know what the budget negotiations are like. It will be more difficult to get support for both development aid and the situation where Croatia is together with the whole world in the biggest economic crisis of the last hundred years. However, I think it is important to continue to finance development aid precisely for the sake of the national security of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37873	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37874	I can say I agree that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37875	The next is a replica of respected Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37876	Dear Secretary of State, I'm talking about development aid. From what I've heard, you've divided it into three groups. One was Bosnia and Herzegovina, the other was Ukraine and the third was Jordan, if I understood correctly. Is that right? Good about. Okay. I am interested in one comment, your comment on the development aid sent by Serbia to Croatia. For example, what Vukic promised a million euros for the earthquake affected areas. What's the Foreign Ministry's position? What is your position as a representative of the government, the Croatian government, towards this humiliating assistance to Vucic Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37877	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37878	Uh, yeah, it's hard to comment on anything in there. Croatia was struck by an earthquake that was disastrous for the Banovina area, so the donations were welcome and are now welcome. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37879	The next replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, I don't think there's any humiliating help. And don't you think our help is humiliating? I would even commend this particular Yemen and Jordan, especially Jordan, and the fact that we helped children who were in refugee camps in Jordan, or we were building, we funded the construction of two playgrounds. Because I've visited one of these camps myself and seen the condition these people live in. Just imagine Jordan's land with about 4 million inhabitants. Of that, there are 4 million refugees from Syria, and there are about a million more immigrants from Egypt. Imagine the pressure that this country is suffering? That's what we had something like during the Homeland War, but here's the thing, again, I'm stressing really commendable help, and I think it came into the right hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37881	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37882	Here's a thank you for your commendation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37883	The next replica is the respected representative Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37884	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. In your presentation, you mentioned how the Republic of Croatia sought to achieve the allocation of official development aid from 0.33 gross national income to 2030 and how the Republic of Croatia was, according to preliminary calculations, approximately 0.13% of GNI in 2019. I wonder how many other countries like us are singled out for official development aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37885	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37886	Thank you for asking. So the world's largest donors of official development aid were the EU and the United States. When we look at the separations of our analogue countries compared to the share in gross national income, we point out that in 2019, for example, Slovenia achieved an allocation of 0.16% of GNI, Slovakia 0.12%, Poland 0.12, Lithuania 0.11, Latvia 0.01, Estonia 0.13, the Czech Republic 0.13, Bulgaria 0.00, Romania 0.00. So we see that Croatia's exclusions of 0.13% are consistent with our comparable countries that have the same obligation as we achieve those 0.33% GNI by 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37887	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Cappeplio.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37888	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State. As can be seen in its overall development, the official development aid of the Republic of Croatia goes at most 72% towards multilaterals if we can say, according to international organisations and 20 percent, so bilaterally. I suppose that a new national strategy will also probably give some new knowledge and that maybe this debate that we have discussed on the board, this approach that will go a little bit more towards bilateral aid, strengthen this segment of concrete projects between, say, helping a particular state, and not this, as it goes to a large part, which is equally important, but it goes to a large part multilateralally. So is that kind of a solution and a national program?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37889	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37890	Yeah, you're right. So the tendency is to increase bilaterally, i.e. to increase the share of bilateral donations and technical assistance of our experts to developing countries, or countries in need of this assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37891	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. You can go back to your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37892	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State. Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament at 6. The meeting held on 25 February was discussed by the Report on the implementation of the Official Development Assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2019, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 3 December 2020. The Committee discussed the report as a parent working body. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia informed that the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia was decentralised. The resolution authorities shall implement their development and humanitarian projects, following priorities identified by the National Development Cooperation Strategy. As the biggest providers of development aid in the 19th, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia were highlighted. He mentioned that during the preparation of the report, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs also co-operated closely with the OECD Development Assistance Committee, thus ensuring the visibility and credibility of the Republic of Croatia as state donors at global level. During the debate, it was stressed that development cooperation policy is an important instrument for the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, and that development assistance should continue to be closely planned, with further strengthening amongst the relevant coordination, and in order to make the funds more efficient. A special emphasis has been placed on the importance of future redistribution for bilateral assistance. Therefore, the implementation of official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia is important for the positioning of the Republic of Croatia in international relations with the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy after the debate was held, with 11 votes for and 1 against the proposal for a report on the implementation of the Official Development Assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37893	Thank you very much. I hereby open the debate and will speak first on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37894	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker. Dear Secretary of State, what you don't know if you understand but I must warn you don't blame me for anything personal, you are a representative of the government and if you are asked to comment here a colleague from the ruling coalition has, for example, asked for a comment on a situation that is very current, then you, as a representative of the Government, must say something and even say your position because you are here politically. You're no manager here. You are political there and she asks you for a political stance as a representative of the foreign ministry. So she asked you a specific question about the introduction of the rebel language, a serious question of the rebel language, so on. the language in Subotica, which is very much harmful to the Croats in Serbia, or Vojvodina. You're here with a smile, too, so it doesn't matter that much. Oh, that's terribly important, terribly important. Another extremely important issue and this topic is about development aid. I haven't heard your position as a politician, as a state secretary, as a representative of the ministry, as a representative of the government, not one of any government representatives, and you're here, I have the right to ask you a position I've said about embarrassing assistance. I don't know if we got any lip, I don't think we're gonna get no lip. But let's say it will be the help of Alexander Vukic to Croatia. So he boasted recently that he would send a million euros to Croatia. But not Croatia, but Serbian spaces in Croatia. That's what I'm saying. So, he's still drawing Greater Serbia in his head, the ministry is not telling us anything, and he's going to give us hundreds or tens of billions of dollars and euros he owes us for war damage, he's going to pet our eyes, and then even the Croatian public agrees with Vucica, and he becomes a match. He becomes a benefactor. And I expect from my minister, Croatian Minister and Prime Minister and you as Secretary of State to say that is embarrassing. I'll keep that money to myself, he won't even let us understand each other, but we don't need crumbs from the table because we are sovereign, independent, if you want an independent Croatian state. But there's no attitude. When we talk about development aid, I really don't mind, although everything that is invested for our Croats throughout Croatia means emigrated Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, and Serbia, I welcome it, and I would like to say that in this sense maybe a little more money to be allocated to the Croats in Vojvodina, to the Croats in Subotica who are under a very large blow, to single out the huge funds, the largest means, to protect the Croatian national Corps, to protect the Croatian language. And not in such a shy way as you said, but as my colleague Marijan Pavliček used to say here today, we should protect Croatian national interests and developmental assistance if needed in Subotica and elsewhere in the world. And when we talk about development aid, I have to comment here on a strange little situation. Today we expect help from Europe and the world because of the earthquake, and on the other hand we give money where and where. A little bit of it right now, I can't quite understand it, not even the citizens can understand it. I know there's probably some sort of explanation I'd like to hear from you, but I think as long as you're wrestling our own wherever we live, we don't help, I think that's when we can think about the others. Because there are Croats who are in an extremely difficult situation, Croatian national interests are at risk both in BiH and Serbia and in many other places. And I think we should make a huge effort here to help the Croats. So here would be a comment on my part. You may later take the opportunity to answer these two questions in one decisive way, though I doubt it. But here I will repeat that these questions are legitimate and I would like to hear from both you and your position as a politician in the matter of embarrassing help, to help Alexander Vukic. And I said about introducing the so-called. the rebel language in Subotica, which was decided in the Saturday Assembly the other day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37895	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Radic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37896	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have studied the report on the implementation of the official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and I believe it is necessary to support it. In accordance with the Law on Development Co-operation and humanitarian assistance abroad, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as a national coordinating body shall draw up a report in question on the implementation of the official development aid adopted by the Croatian Parliament for each year. Work on forming an international development cooperation policy and humanitarian assistance abroad, coordination, implementation and reporting are one of the objectives of implementing foreign policy. Focusing on the dignity of every human person through investment in education, health, promotion of human rights, protection and empowerment of women, children and young people is the key and the very goal of the activities we are discussing today. It is extremely important that the work of the Republic of Croatia in the field of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance is largely maintained by the EU's policy which attaches a prominent position to development cooperation and humanitarian aid in its external action. The official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia in 2019 is 480.84 million kuna. The European Union has made an international commitment to achieving the collective objective of singleing out 0.7 of the EU's gross national income, while the countries that joined the EU after 2003, including, of course, the Republic of Croatia, will seek to achieve an allocation for official development aid of 0.33% of gross national income by 2030, according to preliminary calculations at the level of separation of around 0.13% in 2019. A total of 24 resolution bodies implemented development and humanitarian projects in 2019 in the total amount of official development assistance were attended by ministries, central state offices, the State Hydrometeorological Institute and the Offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the County, cities and leading financial institutions. What is particularly pointed out is that three priority geographical areas of providing official development assistance and within them are defined. Bosnia and Herzegovina in Southeast Europe, Ukraine in the eastern neighbourhood of the EU, Jordan in the southern neighbourhood of the EU while among developing countries Afghanistan, of course, is strongly supporting the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina and strengthening standards in all areas with special emphasis on members of the constituent Croatian people. In conclusion, as I said and in the introduction, I believe and support, I believe the report is good and I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37897	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Green-Left bloc, and Rada Boric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37898	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Since the Green-Left bloc Club also sees the policy of international development cooperation as extremely important and very important component of the foreign policy that the Republic of Croatia could and could better use to look back at a few things. At first, I would like to commend the efforts that have been made in keeping statistics on development cooperation in recent years. I am aware that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for him was a major challenge and to collect data from all state bodies, but also the local self-government unit on development cooperation. From year to year, therefore we see more and more information as it tells us and that the awareness of development cooperation has increased and increased in other state bodies and units of local self-government. On the other hand, however, collected data show some worrying trends. We see and here we are today about this, you have already all told the fact that out of the total 480.84 million kuna spent on development cooperation as much as 72%, i.e. $348 million of waste on a multi-lateral. This means that the funds we said would be inserted into the international register and that we are not implementing these projects ourselves, but are being implemented by international organisations. Of course there would be no confusion, we think it's important to provide development cooperation through multilateral, but we would like that relationship to be the other way around. All 28% of the funds are spent on projects implemented by the Croatian institutions or associations of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, we ourselves lose the opportunity to internationally strengthen the identity of the Republic of Croatia as friends of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. It is further concerned when we know that 48% of the total waste resources are actually paid into the EU budget for development cooperation, all those huge membership fees in international organisations that we, of course, want to be their participants and of course that membership fees must be paid. But it's still a huge amount. When we subtract the funds we show, I would say a little bit, let no one be angry and smuggled under the name of development aid, and it is a de facto about helping the Croatian diaspora the amount that Croatia spends on true bilateral development cooperation projects is modest and we are insufficient. With these resources, it is impossible to articulate development cooperation policies, and we are afraid that this government, and unfortunately not the previous ones, with perhaps some exceptions, did not realise that development cooperation policy could contribute to the development of countries but also to the development of Croatia itself. Just remember the missed concept of economic diplomacy aimed at bringing foreign investors to Croatia. That didn't happen because the lobbying policy joined instead of joining the cooperation policy. If we had a strong and articulated policy of development cooperation with it, there would be some other logic and I believe that markets for our products would also be opened. We've also been failing for years with all this, I'd say inflating what we've put into development cooperation to show the resources for development cooperation in order to achieve this promised goal. Here's a colleague in front of me talking about 0.33% of GNI, and so far we have these modest 0.13. So, with all that we believe is development cooperation, and yet we should see regardless of the OECD criteria and regardless of the criteria if we do not know the central State Office for Assistance to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, does all that we finance fall under development cooperation if we co-finance only our own ethnic Corps. I think it is good that one of the geographical priorities of our development cooperation is Southeastern Europe, but when more detail is entered into the structure of the funds that go to Southeast Europe again we see that most of the funds are being waste in BiH, more specifically to the Croats living in BiH, the Green-Left bloc club has repeatedly criticised the fact that under development cooperation they show up, i.e. books projects that are for the benefit of the Croatian people but, above all, projects intended for diaspora. These projects are legitimate, but they do not belong to development and cooperation projects, especially in the way the Republic of Croatia does, which selectively targets projects as if it does not understand that it does not support the single development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So in the future, I'd like to keep the funds for the diaspora out of writing as development cooperation. We also welcome that there has been a reduction in the allocation for international military missions and development cooperation, although there is no such information in this report. In previous years, when we were militaryly active in Afghanistan, the money was set aside for military missions and was almost equal to the money that was allocated for development cooperation. It's also unacceptable for our club. We believe that the geographical priorities of cooperation should be those of countries affected by armed conflicts or in the post-war reconstruction of society. Projects must use our experience of war and that's what we keep repeating and we keep forgetting that we have this strategic advantage to know that we can also solve peace solutions to the crisis hotspots. What concerns us is that our development cooperation does not recognise the role of civil society organisations as contractors of development cooperation. I will note that civil society organisations were just about to implement those sensitive political development cooperation projects. Let me just remind you of an event 16th when Prime Minister Plenkovic offered Ukraine our model of peaceful reintegration undermining as a possible solution to the occupation of Crimea. And it's very commendable that we want to integrate our model of peace reintegration into foreign policy, but maybe it shouldn't have been done by the prime minister and maybe it was wrong back then. His proposal, if you remember, also had a sharp criticism of Russia and perhaps in some way such a noble idea could have been done, so it could have been done as an alternative, could have been done by civil society, showed by its experience that we could at first support the Ukrainian civil society organisation, and after that time, there would have been certainly other cooperation after the association could have been made by the authorities of the state administration. At the very end, the Prime Minister could also take advantage of the advantages of this model, i.e. He could've knocked on the door to say it. As far as we know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has twice opened a tender for associations on development cooperation. This second one was annulled because of a covid which is certainly not an argument and we hope that it will be announced as it was announced in March this year. And in conclusion, because the policy of international development cooperation is on the sidelines of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs's foreign and European priorities, because it is too little for just international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance, because certain projects are not focused on developing countries, but only on a part aimed at the Croatian diaspora, but then it does not belong here as well as the lack of cooperation in the implementation of projects with the Green-Left bloc civil society will not support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37899	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37900	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, so I've already said something in the replica, I'm not going to say it again. But I certainly welcome this humanitarian aspect and initiatives especially in Jordan, as I said the country was burdened with problems. And the smallest destabilization in the Middle East can then be reflected later, and this is very indirectly on us as well as on new migrant crises, etc. But what I would draw your attention to and what I would like to put an emphasis on is the next few facts. More than 70% of our aid abroad, i.e. $348.8 million, is waste on international multilaterals as a rule of organisation. So these are things that come from, or obligations arising from, our memberships in these same organizations. So actually the right part of helping the day abroad as I see it is these 27.2% and 130.8 million kuna, respectively, and these are bilateral aid projects. So that's where we specifically and directly decide where we participate. I would also welcome a new way of recording aid, where it is clearer to see what and where and how and why we give, and including international co-operation in military peacekeeping missions, are again the obligations arising from our membership in UN multilateral organisations further. I also draw your attention to the fact that the National Development Assistance Strategy, which ends this year, is currently in effect. I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss the draft of the following strategies through the Committees of Resolutions in Parliament as well, so that we do not burden perhaps a wider audience. We may need those who are not interested in them right now, but we as members and members and interested representatives through the parent body in this case are the Committee on Foreign Policy, so that we can discuss possible priorities and for the next strategy the more the implementation of development assistance is based on national strategy and decentralised nature. Therefore, all ministries, all state institutions or central offices involved in providing development assistance, are doing so on the basis of this strategy. And I would also like to say a few things as a representative about the development aid we give through, say, the Central State Office for Croatians outside Croatia, etc. etc. But I think it would also be in the interest of those who are carrying out developmental assistance to hear other perspectives and I think it would certainly be useful to do that, I say that we can have opportunities as advocates to give inputs, suggestions and suggestions. I'm going to point out once again how important it is, therefore, to help priority areas. It is certainly a Southeastern Europe for us, but it is also wider. The Middle East is also of particular interest, so if at least I'm asked specifically through the perspective that any instability in the Middle East means additional pressure not only on Croatia but also on the EU. I would also like to give your attention to the fact that 0.13% of the gross national product is given as development aid. We give other help abroad but which are not, so they don't belong to this category. Following all this, hoping that the ministry responsible for coordinating this will also take into account these suggestions that we have on behalf of the SDP club will support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37901	Now we have the last club of representatives and that is that of the Centre and the Voice in the name of which the respected representative Marijana Puljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37902	I would like to thank the chairman, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just going to brief a few highlights from this report and some things that may be unclear to us and perhaps in the next time report might need to be completed. Therefore, we have before us a report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2019 in accordance with the Law on Development Co-operation and humanitarian assistance abroad, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as a national coordination body draws up this report. We can generally praise the report, but here are some details later in this list of projects that might explain some of the questions. We have therefore heard of total amounts of official development aid at the age of 19 is 480 million kuna. The European Union has therefore made an international commitment to achieving a collective target of 0.7% of EU Member States' gross national income for those who have joined after 2003, which includes us. So, the Republic of Croatia. Efforts shall be made to achieve the separation of 0.33. We were at 0.13% of GDP at the age of 19. It has already been pointed out, so what is a little disappointment is that only 28% of the funds are spent so on funds run by the Republic of Croatia and most of them, a large majority of the 72% are actually on international organisations. To whom did we bestow this official development aid? According to total figures in the 19th year, the biggest recipients of bilateral official development aid were Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Albania, Northern Macedonia and Kosovo. Bosnia and Herzegovina is firstly granted aid from a total of 199 projects that is 89 million kuna aid. In addition, in the 19th year, we directed another 150 000 euros towards Bosnia and Herzegovina through the European Investment Bank's Economic Resistance Initiative programme. It is not disputed, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia strongly supports Bosnia and Herzegovina's development and stability as its path to the EU. Croatia should certainly be the leader, help neighbouring countries, or especially Bosnia and Herzegovina. And therefore, it is in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all its citizens, including members of the Croatian constituent people. What projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina were implemented with this help? According to this report, these were projects aimed at strengthening the dignity of every human being, so through building, rebuilding, equipment of schools, kindergartens, colleges, in health care, also repairing, hospital equipment, health homes. In the area of culture is construction, reconstruction, equipment of cultural institutions, infrastructure development. These are better living conditions as a prerequisite for community development, water network, road reconstruction and the like. In the projects of revitalization of agricultural production. It also seeks to encourage the development of agriculture, reconstruction and equipment of sports facilities, etc. Nowhere in the list, this list in the introduction of the report does not list any projects related to church, for example, reconstruction, construction, church construction and the like. But when you look at this list of projects and count them somewhere, there are 40 projects totaling about 6 million kuna if we counted well. What I also said in the replica, so on this list, except that the criteria for the assignment of projects are not clear, the rapporteur said that this depends on the criteria of each individual institution or which grants that assistance. However, these criteria should, in some ways, be presented in this report. Furthermore, there is no record of who is the beneficiary of these funds. So you have some projects, and here's what I said was one example: I don't know how to continue building a residential building. You don't know who the user is, what business building. It is said in the municipality of Ravna, but who is the user at all to help you and how it is obtained. It is also interesting to see that the Ministry of Health gave an incentive for health care in Bosnia and Herzegovina amounting to around 42 million kuna in 2019. In addition to that for health incentives Central State Office 4 and a half million kuna, so that's it, someone's going to say a lot, someone small. I'd say a little something about how much of Croatia's debts are in health care alone. We can also see that we are also helping a university in Mostar and a total of 14 million kuna in 2019. Another interesting thing I was saying yesterday during the debate on HRT, which is the Central State Office helping or helping with nearly three million kunas of the HTV programme, the fifth HTV programme aimed at, so you Croatian out of Croatia in German, Spanish. I say I mentioned it yesterday during the debate on HRT since it seems to have problems with satellites that were rented for this programme, so the whole issue of this programme and the justification of investment in that programme is actually questionable. So this programme itself and international development cooperation policy should be an important part of Croatia's foreign policy. Croatia should certainly also be a leader in helping, supporting development and its neighbours. First of all, I say, and the report shows the most and we help Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we don't really have a problem with that. But we have a proposal in this report to add more details, so there are no doubts about the criteria under which these funds were allocated. And we're actually interested in exactly who is the beneficiary of individual projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37903	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move to individual debates and the first one is going to speak to the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go. I note that there are a lot of you registered for discussion, all practically here and some others who aren't here, so it can only take you to know. Here you are, Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37904	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I see that the interest in discussing the report on the implementation of the official development aid on the left hand side is great. Whoever and what we're going to do in the future, every honor to those who are still here right now, I welcome them. But apparently, this aid that is very important and the exchange is especially the future that will go through the National Programme where there will be more and more bilaterals that everyone has complained about having less than 20 percent. And we would like to hear these suggestions from the left that it should be this future of bilateral and greater assistance and everything that has been imputed to us today and for which it has not been accepted, that simply this report is not good for these or those reasons and goodbyes. So there is evidence that politics is still a policy, and not that it is well-intentioned to welcome this report, which is definitely given how much we have participated in and since we entered the EU and in a way that we haven't had the opportunity to prepare quality and good, that this is a very good step if we think especially about what has been happening to all of us in the last year. Therefore, the international development cooperation policy is based on the efforts of developed countries to develop less developed countries that promote common values, generally accepted principles, offer solutions to current geopolitical issues, develop partnerships and result in national interests. As such development and humanitarian policies contribute to long-term and sustainable repression, so poverty, conflict prevention, combating illegal migration, strengthening trade and economic co-operation, and all with the aim of preventing dependence on aid. One of the key elements of Croatian development policy is the promotion of interdependence between humanitarian and development, and the building of peace and security as a prerequisite for stability, progress in international action and projects, etc. A triple nexus or a link. This desirable concept of action, where, within the framework of the UN and EU peacekeeping missions, basic conditions and delivery of humanitarian aid are first ensured, in order to put emphasis on development projects to improve the living conditions of the victims' population. That is why this concept was highlighted during Croatia's EU presidency especially in the situation of multidimensional crises. Multidimensional crises such as the pandemic after this disease of covid 19 and climate, so recent changes have been further drawing attention to the importance of development and humanitarian policies at international level. For years, therefore, the EU has been at the world summit at the amounts it singles out, so for developmental humanitarian purposes, which, apart from European institutions, contributes significantly to its Member States individually, as well as to the Republic of Croatia. With EU membership, Croatia actively participates in the creation and implementation of common European development policies so that we strengthen our external and political position, promote our own economic development and promote our own security. So I can't agree that economic diplomacy didn't do its part and it wasn't there at all. However, it has a very important role to play in strengthening these contacts, representing this economic part and creating a single market that is very important to us. And this economic diplomacy has been done in, especially that part of Croatia's EU accession, a very big step. And of course, in time to strengthen that position and it certainly plays an important role in this international co-operation, even on the board itself, there have been a lot of stories about why there is no better, better quality cooperation with Ukraine. However, this very economic diplomacy strengthens this mutual co-operation with Ukraine in particular where we said and in the second segment. In conclusion, the common denominator of all these efforts is to link the contribution of existing providers of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance in a unique response to long-term sustainable development at global level. In this context, Croatia is a credible partner, in international development humanitarian cooperation through bilateral cooperation programmes as well as through joint action with other countries in partner relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37905	We have two replicas. Stay here for a moment. The first is the respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37906	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Cappelly, you mentioned the need to help the victims, humanitarian development aid to the injured population. The Republic of Croatia is just one of the few countries in the EU that is a donor, but unfortunately it has had the experience and role of recipients of humanitarian, or development aid due to war injuries. So we had a war experience, but also a post-war experience, demining, development of Croatian defenders and search for missing persons. Our experiences are certainly precious to the war - affected countries in order not to repeat our mistakes, but to learn from our positive experiences. Do you think it is important to potentiate cooperation with these countries of Jordan, Afghanistan, Syria that we have already mentioned with not only the institutions but also civil society associations, the private sector, the academic community, religious institutions. So to all those who deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37907	Honorable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37908	Dear MPs, you've just noticed. Croatia is one of the sureties of some segments and with greater experience especially when you talk about the war experience of demining and all that, so what it could and what it does on the basis of especially demining. We have very good cooperation with the International Community and our experience we participate in certain actions that are at European level and beyond Europe. It is evident that Croatia has been providing increasing funds from year to year in the implementation of development aid, which amounted to 480 million kuna in 2019. However, if we look at 2017 was 355 million kuna, 2018. 452, this year 480. These are precisely because we participate in these programs and we will still be able to prove it with our experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37909	The Republic has a respected representative, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with what you said about economic co-operation, and it seems to me that a colleague of Rada Boric, when she was alluding to the project of economic cooperation, which was managed by a colleague or former colleague, Josko Klisovic, was more motivated by the elections, local elections and the struggles between the SDP and We can. However, we will probably not hear an explanation because there are currently neither representatives nor other parties in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37911	Your Honor, Mr. Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37912	Mr Stier, well you've said well I think it's obvious and clear that these are the daily-political needs for, especially Mrs. Boric has made it very clear right away that this is wrong and that they will not accept. It is precisely this debate that you have all appeared together and it is very important and visible that this start to help in all the difficult crises we are going through is proof that Croatia is receiving, but it also understands what international aid means. And all that time, we've been very involved. We ourselves said how much it means in that fight alone when we're doing a budget of the Republic of Croatia how hard it is to always find a separation for that kind of thing. But through diplomatic and all the channels that we're doing that experience and knowledge that we're going to do, the MP said she might not see it in the finances themselves, but she'll be seen in concrete cases when we do it and help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37913	Thank you. The next debate will be of respect to Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. Here's when we had a debate on the board that more or less unanimously supported this report. Obviously, some have now changed that view, but they did not explain to the end what they would have learned and to find out something new for 2019, and had it not already been said at that committee session when the report was unanimously supported. The report I think is important as well as as the basis and preparation for a new strategy. These are some colleagues and colleagues mentioned, and in this sense it seems important to continue financing both multilateral and bilateral projects, especially these projects for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It's all legitimate. It's in line with the rules on how development aid is recorded. And it would simply be unwise if we would now invent some new methodology other than the one used by the International Community. I would also say that although bilateral aid is very important, I would not belittle the multilateral one. I'll give you an example. We're also funding the UN food program. When 2014 the programme reduced its expenditure in the Middle East by about 50%, it was one reason for a year later in 2015. He had a migrant crisis. He wasn't the only one, but he was one of the key reasons why migrants didn't stay maybe in neighbouring countries in a larger number, but they went further towards the European continent. So, I would not be downplaying both multilateral projects and our participation because this is also how the national security of the Republic of Croatia is protected. Continue to focus on Southeast Europe especially Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I might add is that in the future, we try to increase our awareness, including the ambition that development aid and development cooperation better become an instrument and a more effective instrument of our external action than what is called soft power. So as to increase the influence of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of neighbouring countries, for example, BiH, as well as those who are not Croats by nationality, to recognize in Croatia, to see one symbol of freedom, progress, one power for good in this part of Europe. Not that it's simple, but just development cooperation like soft power, culture, sport are those elements of external action that can also be used by which serious states make it possible to be more influential and promote better their interests abroad. Clearly, there's enough resources to do that. It's clear we're in a major global crisis right now. However, that is why I have mentioned before, I would like, despite the fact that, unfortunately, the assembly is quite empty except, of course, for colleagues and colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community who are the only ones left in the assembly. But I think it is important that the Parliament supports not only this report, but that it supports the efforts that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government makes in the ultimate line that our citizens make because they finance them with their taxes and development aid. So this development aid really promotes the interests of the Republic of Croatia and thus protect our country's national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37915	Thank you very much. We also have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37916	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Stier, today we had a chance here you and I to host an ambassador right from the country receiving one of the biggest development aids by the Republic of Croatia. This is Ambassador Sapoli of our friendly Republic of Kosovo. We saw firsthand what that help is doing on the ground, and we can't see this as some kind of problem. We have to look at this as a bet. This is, however, the status and international position of the Republic of Croatia, relations with other countries, not to mention the stability and security of Southeast Europe. But here's a first-hand opportunity to see what it means when we take care of Croats in a country like the Republic of Kosovo. Not to mention 30 years ago, there were 9,000 Croats there, and now there are only 300. And what if there were no RH intervention and we weren't independent and we could do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37917	Thank you, colleague, for that question. Indeed development aid, programmes financed in the context of Croatian development assistance with Kosovo, are important for peace, stability in that part of Southeast Europe, and this again affects our national security, not only in terms of the existence or absence of some physical threats, but in general on the stability of our economy, the stability of our society. If you want any instability in the neighborhood to reflect her. You come from Dalmatia to reflect, for example, our tourist season and all the consequences. It's an investment that we make to protect ourselves that way, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37918	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37919	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Stier. Today, we mentioned most of BiH's assistance, which is as normal as it is, the Croats are a constituent people there. However, funds have been allocated through various Croatian institutions to countries where Croatians are national minorities, meaning Austria, Hungary, Kosovo, as a colleague mentioned, Vojvodina, Montenegro and some other countries. The goal is to strengthen the Croatian minority community in these countries and strengthen the membership of the Croatian people through means to raise the level of ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic consciousness in order to develop and raise new generations in this direction. Do we have feedback on whether this assistance is sufficient for the Croatian, Croatian population where they are a minority or whether it is necessary to invest some additional resources in order for them to be able to work better on these activities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37920	Thank you, colleague, so you can see for sure there's always room to do more. We can't make a mistake if we can take a step further in affirmation, in protecting the identity of Croatian people, Croatian minorities, but also in BiH Croats as a constituent people. Imagine and I repeat it again is important if you want and because of the fact that they are members of the Croatian people, whether they are a constituent people or a minority or a classical emigrant group, but they are also investments in security and the Republic itself. Can you imagine what a situation would be like? in Dalmatia or Dubrovnik if there were no Croats in BiH, what would be the situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37921	Thank you, thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Jura Brkan, please. Here, individual debate, yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37922	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues in our country are said to be helping is always better given than receiving, so here is the report on the implementation of official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2019 that it is clear to me and shows that the Republic of Croatia was a responsible state and that it has fulfilled its aid plan. It was fulfilled in accordance with the Law on Development Co-operation and humanitarian aid, it also fulfilled it in line with the National Development Assistance Strategy, and it fulfilled it with the strategic plan of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. We have seen that aid has been granted by sectoral and geographical priorities and that it is focused precisely on what Mr Stier just said that the dignity of every human person and the link between peace, security and development that is important to all countries, especially us here in our environment. The total amount of 480 million kuna which accounted for 0.13% of gross national income was at an enviable level and I hope that he will also be at that level in the 2020 report given the overall economic crisis due to the Covida-19 epidemic. It also meant that we are going towards that 0.33% target, which is the EU's international commitment, and I also believe that today in 2021, after having had a coronary crisis and catastrophic earthquakes, we all know how much international aid is worth to us, it was humanitarian, because we are now at the other end and we are receiving that help. I am also glad that we are not alone in this aiding process, and so through a multilateral aid of 480 million kuna we have placed 348 million kuna, and 130 million kuna is left for bilateral aid. And now it's both about purpose and purpose because out of 488, 456 million were for development cooperation, and 24 million for humanitarian aid. It's on the trail of that saying, give the man a fish you fed him one day, teach a man how to fish and feed him for life. Now, as far as bilateral aid is concerned, there are no wiser and better things, and that is in line with the geographical area of Southeast Europe, it is that development cooperation is based on BiH. So through 199 projects we placed 89 million kuna international, 89.06 million kuna development aid. Look, I had the impression that it was like something big by colleagues on the left, I don't see that it's a lot of dapach every one of those kunas coming back to us multiple times. The Croatian people are a constituent people of BiH and needs and deserves our help. Someone mentioned assistance to the municipality of KN 650,000 KN for the building of business-social purposes. Well, there are no better things than helping the municipality of Ravna, the hinterland of Dubrovnik and the coast of Dubrovnik. I know this terrain just for the reason that our Macarska Vrgorak brigade in the Homeland War has freed and defended this area and now every year we visit and unfortunately place the crowns at the death sites of Croatian defenders. Well, we're so good with the municipality straight that last year, as far as we could, the town of Makarska donated a fire tank to the municipality of Just for a reason, because if a fire is not put out in the municipality it crosses into Dubrovnik. Now, on the trail of all this BiH, I hope it aims at European integration, and it is our job to help it, the Republic of Croatia, because it will be the well-being of all BiH citizens, especially the constituent people of the Croats in BiH. In addition, Croatia is constantly developing all its policies in the field of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance, and in this multilateral aspect I believe that in the future it would be extremely helpful for sub-Saharan Africa. We've heard about their problems several times. So countries with demographic booms in countries rich and natural resources, but simply unsettled how to tell the state frameworks. The help should be here, the most I keep committed to the multilateral framework, and this bilateral one certainly retains BiH's priorities and also Ukraine's assistance as much as we can with our advice and knowledge. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37923	Thank you. We have a replica of the re-respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37924	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Brkan, you mentioned the ante, and in more exposure you mentioned just assistance to BiH, and we saw in some statements by the opposition that some are even slow to invest, for example. University of Mostar, 14 million. Let's just take two factors, you're the mayor of Makarska, how much do we take the labour force of our Herzegovina that comes to the season and take another example, the city of Makarska is de facto a few miles from the border itself, how much stability and security on the other side of the border means to us, and how much would the effect of what we are, what did fellow Stier mention in his exposure to how effective it would have been if anything had happened to us or that we didn't invest or that we didn't have a stable people a few miles from such cities as Makarska? What would make tourism and the development of the region?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37925	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37926	I can actually give you another example, here now because of the crown crisis is, you can cross the border, and we all know what the conditions are, that we have a negative test and everything else. So we're out of season, it's already making our lives and our normal business more difficult. Unfortunately, but that's right. Now, that's indivisible to us how to tell the Corps. The town of Makarska and the Macarska hinterland means Zabiokovlje is situated 35km from the border to the territory of Herzegovina. We are interested in it being a secure and stable region, that BiH is a secure and stable state. And it is also our greatest interest that the Croatian people have the full right of the constituent people of BiH and that they will normally never forget theirs I will not call the queen since BiH and Croatia are both the homeland of the Croatian people, but that these ties are not broken. Help is particularly important in education, higher education, and in health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37927	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Radoj Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37928	... A report on the development assistance of the Republic of Croatia for 2019, which the applicant explained in detail and which was done in accordance with the law and with the national development aid strategy. [[Specially enabled.]] If we look at development aid, of course, the most benefits of development are those who receive benefits and benefits. However, the aid from development aid has a strong impact on the countries that provide this development aid through strengthening the reputation, influence and international position, which contributes to both economic and all other progress made by the countries that provide it. You should always keep in mind the folk saying that good, good comes back. For the Republic of Croatia, development aid may be even more important than most other countries. For a few reasons. I'll list maybe two of the most important. In the neighbourhood of the Republic of Croatia there are still insufficient economic developments. Countries that are politically unstable and still outside Euro-Atlantic integration. For the Republic of Croatia, this development aid is also very important because a large number of Croats live outside the Republic of Croatia, especially in neighbouring countries, and of course the largest number in BiH. As a result, investment in development aid is not a cost. As some colleagues have already said, this is a very profitable investment in every respect. I hope that this development aid provided by the Republic of Croatia from 0.13% of GDP will increase rapidly. That she will be more focused through this direct aid. Direct assistance to neighbouring countries listed here. That this assistance will contribute to the economic development of these countries. That this assistance will contribute to the political stabilisation of these countries. That this assistance will also contribute to the integration of these countries into Euro-Atlantic integration. Also, in the next period a number of other institutions of the Republic of Croatia will be very much involved in development assistance. First of all, I mean the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Agriculture, Tourism, etc. I must stress the need to include the Central Office for Housing Care, the Central Office for Demography, etc. I hope all of this.../incomprehensible... in the next development aid strategy. That through the synergy of all institutions, we will contribute to the stabilisation of Southeast Europe, the inclusion of these countries in the EU and NATO pact and certainly to the economic, political and any other strengthening of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. And finally, once again, let me just say, of course, I will support this strategy and I hope that in the next period through this development aid strategy we will achieve even greater results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37929	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Nevenko Barbaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37930	... In its debate on the report on the implementation of official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2019, I will stress that I will make part of the report dealing with assistance to South East Europe. [[Specially enabled.]] So I express my satisfaction that the internal strategies are based on the strategic objectives of Croatian foreign policy and the sectoral and geographical priority area of transfer of assistance to Southeast Europe with an emphasis on BiH. Sectoral priorities under the national strategy are better education, health, promotion of human rights, protection and.../incomprehensible/... women, children and young people, building democratic institutions, supporting economic development, environmental protection and the like. Also, respecting the foreign security development and economic dimension logically, the choice of Southeast Europe is understandable. I will also mention the Law on the Declaration of the position of the Croatian people in BiH adopted in this assembly documents that are fully in line with the Law on Development Co-operation and humanitarian aid, but also with the national development cooperation strategy for the period '17-'21. All these documents in the first place are the subject of the highest interest in BiH, but also the status of the real equality of the Croatian people in BiH. The report lists the projects supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a brief description, allocated according to individual projects and total amounts. In the shortest time, projects in the field of education are supported through renovation, construction and equipment of schools, kindergartens and colleges, healthcare through renovation, construction and equipment of hospitals, health homes and homes for the elderly. Significant assistance goes to rebuild and build institutions of culture, organise cultural events, print magazines, brochures and monographs, preserve Croatian language, help the media in Croatian language, help students and the like. In 2019, a significant amount of support targeted at religious facilities is also going to support economic progress. Understandably, it is not possible to complete the report and fully consider the value, importance, need for such assistance to the Croatian people both in BiH and in other Southeast European countries. It also understands the critical reference to this kind of assistance independently of the constitutional obligation, laws and declarations, the EU's position. For some, this type of help is unnecessary, wrong, others say too much or too little, some are contentious support to religious objects, the mention of transparency, etc. And what it looks like and what it really means when you're on the other side, when you write, you run, you realize projects. In my Ljubusko in 2019, generally previous years support was given to cultural centre facilities, an object for children with developmental difficulties, the construction of sports fields with a primary school with 1000 children, a collection distribution centre for our farmers, a home of health, agricultural cooperatives. The value of the support was always around 10% of the investment, always meant more. A stronger sense of belonging, a sense of security, a return to faith. And yes, the Humac monastery was in 2019, but in previous years it was also on the list of these support. You should know, we need to understand that religious objects are not only spiritual centers, we mention the monastery of St. Ante at Humac has the oldest museum in BiH, which depicts 14000 years of history in Herzegovina, has a unique gallery of mothers with over a thousand exhibits, rebuilding the cultural centre of St. Ante. So the most valuable cultural heritage the people of this region possess. Therefore, another sincere thanks to this government for everything it does for the Croatian people in BiH, but also for BiH. Through the implementation of the above, the Republic of Croatia supports, initiates the policy of dialogue, supports social and economic development, maintaining peace and stability, strengthening democratic institutions. This approach provides strong support and encourages all Southeast European countries on the path of Euro-Atlantic integration, clearly on the principles in the transition process and the adjustment itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37931	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37932	Here's what I want to go back to on this subject, but I'm going to choose BiH, of course, because that's my eternal theme, I'd say. BiH is one of the programme countries that is good and expected from the government that has sent a clear message from the very beginning that BiH and the equal position of Croats as one of the 3 constituent nations in the country are at the top of the priorities. The cooperation of our two countries in all areas of life is constantly growing. We have further connected traffic, economy, science, culture and in all other areas. I would like to emphasise that a significant shift has been made over the past 4 years, and we see this through these reports in terms of more competitive, more concrete and continuous support to both strategic institutions and other important programmes and projects of Croats in BiH. This support is visible not only through an increase in financial resources but also through visible engagement in BiH where the Croatian people live, especially through co-operation and regular visits by representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, having direct insight, means visiting both our field work and taking into account the current needs and difficulties facing Croats in BiH, we seek to ensure long-term conditions for staying and survival as well as sustainable development in all areas of life for Croats in BiH. For example, in order to encourage the remnant of young people in our home country, we increased by 100% the number of scholarships to students of Croatian people studying in BiH and we had before 200, now we have 400 scholarships per year. Through the project We connect students of primary schools from BiH to peers in Croatia, emigration and members of Croatian minorities. Different types of workshops and professional educations for Croats in BiH have also been organised. Three types of workshops were for EU funds for Erasmus+ and workshops for students, teachers and teachers. Since 2017 we have systematically supported institutions of strategic importance for the Croatians in BiH such as Mostar University Clinical Hospital, Mostar University and the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar. The importance of this institution have for the survival and prosperity of Croats in BiH is indeed we will all agree immeasurable for the preservation and care of Croatian cultural identity, creating a precondition for social and economic progress, stopping young people from leaving BiH and positioning Croats as the leader in all issues and processes essential to the country, especially I would say in the field of education, culture and science. The results of this support are visible today, but believe them, we expect only in the period ahead of us. We also continuously support programmes and projects that are of special interest to the Croatian people in BiH, which increase the amount of financial resources. Last year was challenging in a number of issues. The whole world has been faced with the threat of the pandemic of the coronal virus, so many activities were, in particular, direct contact and visits to the Croats in BiH, limited to us, but despite these circumstances, support and co-operation were not lacking. Seeking to support key moments for overcoming the crisis and difficulties that the Croatian people in BiH have also found, the government of the Republic of Croatia has provided financial support for hospitals, health homes and BiH. I've been passing a little time, and on your opening presentation, the secretary of state has been asked a question in cooperation in the area of agriculture and tourism. I could say a lot about it for a long time because I've just explored the kind of projects we have. And we have a lot of projects now because I've contacted the Croatian State Office. outside the Republic of Croatia, where we have very, very many projects in this area. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37933	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs Marijana Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37934	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates, Honored Fellows and Fellows, today's report on the implementation of the official development of assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2019, which the State Secretary presented to us very comprehensively in its opening presentation, and which the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs makes for each year in accordance with the Law on Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance abroad. Effective and strong development cooperation is an investment in our own development and our security. Equally, development cooperation is one of the key elements, or one of the pillars of Croatian foreign policy. Its objective is a long-term and sustainable perspective of the development of society through multi-annual projects. The scope of the activities presented makes me satisfied and optimistic, especially given the nearer future in which significant funds will have a powerful effect. Where are we and how have we channeled funds during the reporting period in question? In total amounts of the Republic of Croatia, 480.84 million kuna were allocated for official development in 2019. The fact that it's almost half a billion kunas of segregation speaks for itself enough. It is important to stress that the continuing growth of the annual issue for official development aid was also maintained in 2019. More specifically, compared to the previous 2018 total volume of official development aid, the Republic of Croatia increased 6%. Of this, the largest part of the official development aid sent to the Republic of Croatia is the payment of the mandatory contribution from the Republic of Croatia to the general EU budget, which is considered to be development aid, and those of €234 million and payments to the European Development Fund, which amounted to €73.7 million in 2019. For programmes and projects aimed at bilateral roads, 130.81 million kunas have been allocated. The most resources as we have already had opportunities and heard is focused on development cooperation, its total share within the official development aid is 455.8 million kuna or 94.03%. The rest of the 23.8 million kuna or about 5% concerned humanitarian aid. In accordance with our geographical and sectoral priorities set out in the National Development Cooperation Strategy for the period 2017 to 2021, 99.21 million kunas have been allocated for the Southeast European countries through 126 projects. For countries of eastern and southern neighbourhood where we have the programming countries of Ukraine and Jordan 1,61 million kuna through 4 projects and for other developing countries 4,68 million kunas that have helped us realise 12 different projects. From sectoral priorities, the aid was dominantly focused on the first sectoral priority of the national strategy, which is to ensure the dignity of every human being through the fundamental objective of investing in education and health. What I am particularly pleased about is the fact that the most programmes and projects have been implemented in our neighbouring BiH. Given that strong co-operation is being advocated in countries where the Republic of Croatia has a special interest, and Croats are one of the constituent peoples looking forward to knowing that it affects the strengthening of BiH's stability, especially the better position of Croats who make up a significant share of the population there. The projects we are talking about are those that affect the quality of everyday life of the local population, the construction and equipment of schools, kindergartens, institutions of higher education, hospitals and homes for older and powerless are only part of the activities that are carried out to improve the quality of life as a whole. It should also mention other countries for which significant funds are also allocated. In line with the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Kosovo. There are a whole range of projects carried out like those in the area of protection of cultural heritage, other cultural activities, the protection of borders through the prevention of illegal migration, humanitarian aid and the like. Taking into account all the activities above, which are undoubtedly not missing, I am prepared to highlight the personal satisfaction done with strong support for further implementation of the same or similar activities. Finally, according to collected and analysed data, we can argue that we are moving in a good and positive direction through the continued strengthening of the number of national developers of the development strategy, as well as through the recognition of Croatia as a credible development partner and donors both at European and global level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37935	And on your exhibit, we have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Baricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37936	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Balic, in your presentation, you referred to or pointed out that the most programmes and projects were implemented in our programme state of BiH. In addition to the construction and equipment of schools, kindergartens, hospitals, homes for older and powerless, can you tell me what other activities have been carried out, and all in order to improve the quality of life as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37937	Dear Representative Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37938	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you, well-respected MPs, exactly as I pointed out in my presentation of the most programmes and projects was implemented in our programme state of BiH since the Republic of Croatia has continued to support the development and stability of BiH. So in this sense, as I mentioned earlier, through development aid projects for the Republic of BiH, it acted on the construction and equipment of schools, kindergartens, higher education institutions, hospitals, health homes and homes for elderly and powerless persons throughout BiH. Likewise, transfers of one-time financial assistance to particularly vulnerable groups and summer camps for children are provided. In order to strengthen economic development, digitalisation projects were carried out, and cultural projects, among other things, worked to build and equip cultural institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37939	The next replica is the respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37940	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Balic, you have mentioned several times in your presentation this very factor of stability but also the priority of developmental help to go to the South East Europe area. You were also here in the Croatian Assembly of Leaders and Chairmans of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in contact with the Ministry itself, you received often various ambassadors, when we look at South East Europe and the development aid we provide to Southeast Europe and countries in particular in the neighbourhood, we must also take the factor that this is one and the way to keep these countries on the Euro-Atlantic path. It is important that both EU and NATO are mentioned in our neighbourhood because it is a factor in the end of stability. If it weren't for that, if we hadn't imposed that subject on me and through this kind of international help, I think we'd lose a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37941	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37942	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Bačić, thank you, but it's more of an observation than a replica. So all I can say is that I totally agree with what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-04-0.u37943	Thank you very much, I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met, and we will end today's work. We'll pick up tomorrow at 9:30 tomorrow. The first item will be the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2019. The applicant will be the Commissioner for Information and I remind you there will be a vote at 12 o'clock. Have a nice evening. Session interrupted at 20.45 hours. Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak.
