ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u42779	The 6th debate will be the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, whose name will be spoken by a respected colleague, Ante Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u42780	... Am I on? [[Specially enabled.]] I'm on the program at last. I didn't plan on talking today, I jumped in as a replacement, today I was planning on correcting the wrong allegations, so I assumed things would develop, that they would be in that position. Namely, I heard Mr. Pupovac from this pay phone criticized Mr. Schwart and myself, especially me for my views here on the Serbian Orthodox Church. To be honest, I couldn't wait for it because in order for any of my views to be challenged, a lie should be presented, and that is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure of HS, so today I planned to correct the wrong allegations. And since I've already got the chance, I've almost been ordered to speak on behalf of the club, I've got three topics on my mind. One is the amateur behaviour of Croatian politics on non-paper, according to developments in BiH and BiH. The second thing that goes around my head, it's one promise of three, four months ago again Mr. Pupovac promises to Mr. Zekanovic that he will explain to him the difference between the former Croatian-Serbian coalition and this one now, that is, compare one and the other, regardless of what was directed to his colleague Zekanovic, I was anxiously expecting it, and I was certainly going to get involved in that debate. And the third theme, repeat everything important about the Serbian Orthodox Church, that Satanic institution, that most insidious enemy of the Croatian people in the last 100 years, as I have said here, would be no man if I could not justify it. But since time will not be too much for these topics, let's compare two Croatian-Serbian coalitions. So, for those who are more familiar with history, they know after the revolutionary 1848, when Europe is full of revolutions, and especially in the Habsburg Monarchy, and when there is a great struggle, including armed battles between the Austrian and Hungarian parts of the monarchy, and that calms down and it calms down through the intervention of Croats and Russians. So after that, the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy suffered 2 heavy military defeats, one in 1859 at Solferin, when his colleague Hrelja escaped, there was a great song about, written about the death of a Croatian soldier in the Battle of Solferin. I don't have time for that, and I have no intention, but it's very convenient when you take the Golden Book of Croatian Poets, look at it, and the second, also difficult battle, is even harder to defeat in 1866 in the Battle of Sadova. Again, the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy is experiencing a severe disaster, and this conditions the division of the Austrian-Hungarian Monarchy into two parts, into the Austrian and Hungarian parts, and this is where the Croatian disaster begins because Croatia is divided. Istria and Dalmatia Austria and the rest of Croatia to Hungary. There is a crisis of dualism in these struggles. Croats then, what is a crisis of dualism? These organisations of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy as double states and Croats at one point, as they change sides before that, but do not change sides which are perverse, but because they are smaller and less powerful people; at one point Croatians are ready to support Hungarians. It's coming to the so-called. The Rijeka resolutions, Frano Supilo and Trumbić, are initiating and insisting to support the Ugars because the Ugars promised the Croats that in the event of the dualism, they would allow the Croats to join all their ends. After that 20 days, there is a Zadar resolution where Serbs suggest that, you declare us equal in Croatia, so we will see you.../incomprehensible/... so we will support you, and do not interrupt me, please, this. So we'll back you up. But then the Serbs, namely the Serbs of Croatia, are then 25% in Croatia, they have relative strength and then co-ordinate with them, it is normal, and today a coalition is made with Serbs who do not have any power, who had to first suffer militaryly, we had to agree with them to make such a coalition before the war, honor each, and this coalition, history is judging this, colleagues from HDZ, history is judging this Croatian-Serbian coalition at this moment Please, nice. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u42878	The fifth will speak for the Honorable counterpart Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u42879	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. "Are you alive, old lady? Calm down! Don't be often seen so anxious and don't go on the road every minute in your wasted old coat," so somehow one of the most beautiful songs dedicated to the mother of Russian poet Sergei Jessenin, "A letter to the mother", a mother with a large M, a mother whom we all owe to something truly human, human, caring and unbreakable that we wear deeply, deeply written in our heart that is once called love. And then the government and this Parliament found each other. Yes, yes, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and the Parliament as legislators, who there some 2.5 years ago decided to divide this unique, unrepeated world of mothers into two parts. So one mother who was retired after 1 January 2019 was added an internship of 6 months for each child born and adopted, and so they were entitled to at least a small increase and too little pensions. Great, thank you for the gesture, but it's as if we in Croatia have an unrepeated talent for creating injustice. Mothers retired by that date were left without a mother's internship, although they were born and breast-feeding and reared and cared and worked nights and nights on a dozen fronts at one time and at that time when no refrigerator or washing machine or a hundred other modern wonders were there. In order to correct this obvious injustice, I submitted to this House a bill acknowledging the added internship for every child born and adopted and to those mothers who were previously retired and for now lost their mothership. Can't and can't have a child of those retired mothers after 1 January 2019. worth more than children of mothers who retired before that date. It's not about the lips or the kunas anymore, it's about those women who lost their mother's internship. And of course, I didn't ask for anything back. I've learned a few rights a long time ago, and I know there's no retroactive law enforcement, but from the day after these amendments to my law on pension insurance and when we pass them, so when the law comes into force. And be careful now, last week, the government gave a negative opinion at its session on the bill, saying: "The government of the Republic of Croatia particularly points out that it is unacceptable to return the bill," our government says. What kind of retroactive brain in the ministry and government could have called for retroactive law enforcement, the right to an added internship that would be valid in the future, after the law was passed in the House? So far, my people have had dozens of such situations, we've always given something more favourable to everyone, not just to some. Retirement allowance up to 27% that we introduced in 2007. It was also recognised to those retired by 2007. Change of the starting factor for early retirement, right to choose a more favourable pension in 2011, etc., etc. Gentlemen, you could have simply said a hundred other things, not to give a mother's allowance, and almost, we have 76 votes, we're not interested in that topic, we don't have money, but this is how you blamble yourself and name it something as an argument of rejection, it's not exactly your honor. So don't insult common sense, nor women, nor citizens, nor any of us MPs, withdraw that opinion, correct it until it's too late, admit the mistake no one will object to you because this isn't a question of money, this is a question of correcting injustice to the mothers who gave birth to us, who taught us what the word love means, and without that happiness there is no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u42977	We are going to the 9th debate, dear colleague Dalia Oreskovic on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u42978	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. In the past few days, we've had opportunities to enjoy the newly discovered affairs of Willy Berosh. All I'm going to say is that everything that is now being said in the media is not a problem of dysfunctional health but rather of a dysfunctional judiciary, a dysfunctional state that has not formed a functional operational and efficient body that could investigate the affairs in a timely, quick and effective manner, determine responsibility, and then impose sanctions in a way to rule in the Republic and execute them. The same can be concluded about the affairs of all previous ministers, both those still on tape and those who have been removed, whose epilogue we have not seen until today and we will not see them until the end of this government's term. What about investigating corruption in postwar recovery in Banovina and Bania? So, in time, we have raised great dust about it, and today not one word is heard about it. Since local elections are often heard with various promises, I would suggest that we create a monument in the City of Zagreb, a monument to undermined trust in the Croatian judiciary. And I'm going to say a quote that we could put over that tombstone, and it would read like this: this verdict will strengthen citizens' trust in the legal order based on the rule of law. Do you know what verdict this quote is from? From Mamika's verdict. The Mamic brothers who used their dual citizenship to double escape from the execution of justice in the direction and regime of the Republic of Croatia are only the last in line. The judiciary established by HDZ's authority, a justice system that is more or less maintained in this state by HDZ, a judiciary that is unable to reform even when the government in the state takes over the country's strongest opposition political force in this country. Why am I saying that? Because I have been contacted for days by fellow lawyers, and even some judges who are well aware of the state of our legal practice. And when we have the situation that in the figures of 35 million kuna, out of 50 million kuna, of 80 million kuna, as damaged as “Dinamo” we have the situation that the judges were not so healthy as to recognize the risk of escaping the prison sentence well and fat know that many of them have expressed security measures for 10 thousand kunas, for 100 thousand kunas, that for these amounts and for these figures people have been kept in custody almost to the power of judgment, that severe repressive measures and boots have been used when it comes to ordinary citizens who did not have the backdrop of political parties financed in campaigns, however, for all those who have a double homeland this country does not have an effective mechanism for exercising their own justice and justice. What is the justified expectation of all our citizens? The fact that HS is a legislative body that makes up the state. So how did the HDZ make this country in the last 30 years?? Now that I'm full of creative ideas, let's also change the name of our anthem, let's call it "The Beautiful Our HDZ". These days, the opposition also said they were ready to take steps towards judicial reform. My question is, do we know what we really need to reform? Because the problems in the judiciary do not stem only from the structure and organisation of courts and inadequate procedural provisions of various branches of our right, from criminal, civil, administrative and other. It comes from the state structure and the state line, it comes from how we choose the structure of the government from the bottom to the top. And that will especially come in terms of these local elections. We have once again failed to implement everything that should have been implemented long ago, the reform of electoral legislation, the reform of the territorial structure, and the least we should have done is to place those proposals that the Commission has referred to in order to decide on a conflict of interest a few years ago, which speak of how we do not control members of representative bodies at the level of the county, towns and municipalities, in the jurisdiction of at least some bodies that will be able to control how the funds are withdrawn from the state budget in the private pockets of members of political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u42979	Thank you very much, colleague Oreshkovic. I thank all those who took part in taking a stand, and now, before we move to the agenda, we'll just have a notice. Thank you very much, good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. As always on Wednesday, we begin with a free speech, i.e. the presentation of the position of club representatives and independent representatives. The first is today the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43064	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is a contrast country. On the one hand we have ministers who are frames to order a website that costs a million kunas, software, programs that cost several million kunas and still do not work, do not work, system falls. And it's normal for someone to spend their budget money thinking about it. It is similar in local self-governments, it is similar in my Sibenik where budget money is also spent on whatever the current city government thinks of. On the other hand, in my same Sibenik, not only in Sibenik, but in all of Croatia, there are 1,000 and 1000 virtuoses of survival. People who live almost without money. We've all heard of blocked, accomplished many times, but besides them, no one knows what it's really about. It's about people who can't manage their accounts, it's about people who when any kuna income comes to their account, that money goes to someone. And what is it, in fact, where does the debt of these people come from, those of my Sibenik but of course all the other Croats and Croats who got into this problem? It's usually a debt to you to Elektra, or a debt to electricity. It's a debt to the Sibenik water line. It's a debt to telecommunications companies. So it's not about the vast majority of cases of some kind of mistake, capital investment where a man raised some money and didn't invest it well, it's about simple survival, about a man who at one point didn't, has no family, couldn't pay the bill for electricity. She couldn't pay the water bill. Today, unfortunately or fortunately, and this has become something that we all have and that we all use, that someone could not pay the phone bill and then enter the category of blocked or executed. These days, the Sibenik public notebooks have sent 1,000 and 1000 occupiers, 1000 and 1000 Sibenik, around 3000, 3000 Sibenik families have been completed. So the money that they managed to earn somewhere, get, at this point due to the execution goes to the FINA, or to the public notebooks or goes team means indirectly, and to the team to which the debt was made. What is important to mention for all those who do not know, are not familiar with the problem, of those accomplished unfortunately some live very well. There are various companies involved in the commission. And then we have the absurdity of our country of Croatia that at the expense of these poor Sibeniks there are some companies that make millions, some individuals who drive expensive cars, some individuals who don't have to watch where the discount is, where's the action. They don't have to be ashamed of their poverty. They do whatever they want. On the other hand, we have a large population of people who are hiding, who I said, artists, virtuoses, survivors, and they're not spoken of. So they're one group that's actually trying in public space as little as possible because it's not pragmatic for them to tell anyone, both locally and at the state level, that currently in the city of Sibenik, maybe 15% of the population has a situation that they can't afford to have their money, that there are 15% of the population that barely survives the end. So in our society we have one great contrast. On the one hand, we have ministers, favorites of our Prime Minister, who will order websites that don't work for millions of kunas from our acquaintances and on the other hand, we will have people who, because they didn't pay for their directors, electricity or water in time, literally don't have bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43136	We're going to the 3rd debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Siniša Hajdas Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43137	Dear President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. If it were another time, we could use a little allegory as a figure of speech, and say that instead of six. Avenue in New York's HDZ Group flower shop is located in Upper Stubica. In Upper Stubica, not only are flower arrangements arranged, but millions of contracts are actually concluded for the information of society and health systems. Willi Beroš, who, for the purposes of this story, could be conveniently referred to as "Superhik" or "Milogled Bluff" destroys the health system, destroys what is most dangerous, and that is that not 30% of the population of Croatia is poor or in poverty threshold, and this is exactly what gives rich IT companies, which is probably since '91. do upgrades to health systems that are not compatible at all. If you go to one hospital most often you do not actually follow the search for another hospital, therefore the information system in the health system in Croatia does not exist. But it may not be time for allegories or jokes, because this information contract should actually create a vaccination platform that should be a state priority. 1 now. And now we see, yesterday, the day before yesterday, that vaccination does not work at all in Croatia. Minister Beros once portrayed as a superhero, Superman, Batman, still becomes a Milogled Bluff and becomes part of a corrupt octopus that provides its tentacles and hooves wherever the opportunity appears, which steals where it comes from, and so unfortunately in this covid crisis and so unfortunately on human lives. Today, yesterday, the day before yesterday, the people's bus almost dies, so we become what, I don't know if there's any empathy in society, whether people are aware of how many people are dying of covid and whether the measures that are presented and being implemented are actually the only right ones in Croatia. Similarly, be careful what is interesting, therefore similar scam happens in Zagreb County where the husband of the flower shop owner from the beginning of this story works as the head of the information service of Zagreb County's health. Very symptomatic. At the same time, hospitals are drug-free, the state doesn't pay them, vaccination turns into a nightmare, health reform as you've heard is reportedly on the Prime Minister's desk, but due to local elections, it's not being conducted, and now the neoliberals will start your story on the privatisation of the health system. Here's what I expect next. The hospital's capacity is before we say so by firing, all these reforms, so-called. cosmetically, so far, what's been done? So, the pay's up, which is fine, but there's no increase in the head of the health system. Most of the county hospitals, and that's most of Croatia spends 95% of the money they get for their salaries, so of course there's no drugs, of course there's no cold drive. And now my colleague has talked before about the SDP or HDZ guilt, but I will only be very clear to HDZ Croatia has managed exactly 23 years. I've been saying it for 23 years. My 6 and a half thousand people died of Covid, 50 people die a day. Instead of doing health care system your job, what they do, furniture competitions to information companies. I mean shame. Conflict of interest, crime, corruption. Go back to the allegory, what's that? The flower shop, who's in the flower shop boss who's under quotes not to insult.../incomprehensible/... number one, who's the boss? Andrej Plenkovic. What's he doing? It's just that this character, he's like the main hero, like the brains of all HDZ operations, and he's probably got that little black book he's got with him, and then he's writing sins about everyone. I mean, do we even need to talk about Beros? He's written off anyway. So soon Mr Plenkovic will open his site as he opened for Kujundzic, Kuščević, Žalac, Marić, Murganić, Dalic, that soon it is probably time for William Beros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43229	Let's move on. Now it's on behalf of our esteemed colleague, Ivan Celic, on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43230	A study carried out at the end of last year on a large representative sample published in an eminent journal of Psychological Medicine shows the inability of a vaccine among people who receive most of their information about Covid from social networks, which can be fully explained by more negative views on the vaccine and stronger doubts about the conspiracy. The question for health policy makers, as well as in Croatia, is how to restore fundamental trust in the interest of public health in the long term. Some of our fellow citizens believe that rejection of vaccination is a matter of human rights and freedom. By this attitude, everyone has the right to decide on his health and his body. Let us try to apply such an attitude to traffic safety. For example. On the seat belt. There are cases, however, quite rare, when binding does not help, but even damages, but there are more and more unmistakable situations where the belt saves life. Or, back in medicine, gallbladder surgery is relatively common surgery, the frequency of complications in these operations is 0.5 to 0.7%. Is that why you gave up the gallbladder surgery? Of course not. Same thing with the vaccines. Despite rare side effects, vaccines are the maximum range of human health medicine to which hundreds and hundreds of millions of people have been saved so far. There are countless examples like this. Many doubt vaccines because they are quickly made, we are told earlier that it takes years to develop vaccines. This was won in less than 11 months. These suspicions ignore the enormous acceleration of science. The Economist writes that it took 10 years to first read the virus genome in 1976. Genome Sars-CoV-2 has been read in a few weeks since the announcement of the disease. Probably never before in history has that speed of so many scientists and resources been spent on individual research. After the initial discussions on whether there are enough protective medical equipment, about why our citizens are being tested a little bit, through a proposal to mass-test Slovakia, which has thus not received any result, through dangerous accusations and seeking the personal responsibility of the prime minister for those who died from a new coronary disease, we have also come up with a debate on vaccination. Anything can and should be discussed, but it is not an unimportant place and time, it is not the irrelevant actors of the debate, which should be professional and reasoned. For the results of the vaccination, it takes a certain time, we would all like to see that since EMA's conditional approval for the first vaccines of these vaccines there was more, but it is generally known to the general public, which are the causes of the lack of vaccines that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has ordered in sufficient quantities. Every day, the situation is better, the vaccine at weekly intervals comes at tens of thousands of doses and our citizens are increasingly responding to vaccination, which could be seen yesterday at Zagreb Velesajm. Despite the differences in political preferences, I believe that real expectations and hopes are ahead of all of us to finally reduce the number of deaths and to free people from the limits that go on our nerves and that are expensive. Vaccination is a subject that triggers different emotions, so it's no wonder that both the heads of state and citizens sometimes seem tense or anxious, we're talking about saving people's lives here. The government of the Republic of Croatia provided 3.1 million doses of vaccines by 31 June. It is worth noting that some 750 000 additional doses of Pfizer were secured in the first phase. The government has also secured about 450 000 doses that are also moving earlier to the second quarter. Therefore, under the circumstances when there is a delay in the delivery of AstraZenec, over this period millions and 200,000 doses of Pfizer are secured. In this way, assumptions were made that by June 30, about 50 to 55% of the population over the age of 18 were split. The Ministry of Health, along with doctors from the county public health institutions and family doctors whose role in this process is immeasurable, is doing everything to make more and more displaced citizens by the summer season. This creates assumptions for a successful tourist season but also a more normal and regular way of functioning the economy. In conclusion, the government of the Republic of Croatia has been doing everything possible since the beginning of the global pandemic to ensure that the health security of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens comes first, so I can only conclude with our slogan, "He means others. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Vaccinate!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43331	Let's move on, eighth debate, Advocacy Bridge Club and esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43332	The people who are listening to this now, we heard 2Urbi et orbi" to the people and the world, received information from the mayor Boban that the projects in Split-Dalmatia County are nothing less than slightly less than 13 billion kuna and that we have projects contracted somewhere just over 6 billion and 300 million kuna. Such a lie and deception has not yet been heard. I wish it were true, I would like those projects to start, I would like to send a message here that we have to and we want to be better in Split-Dalmatia County and I will tell you a few examples. I will mainly look back 3 years when the government's meeting in Split-Dalmatia County was held, when 2 billion kunas of projects were promised which were exactly listed. It's done, the citizens know it, the people know it, they've had enough eye-smoothing, they've achieved zero, nothing. We'll head for my Cetina province, towards Sinj. For what? Because today in the Split swimming pool is 3000 euros m2 of apartment and in the background with certain projects that have long been envisaged and launched, the quick road combination of Sinja with Split, Sinj becomes the suburb of Split, a study of environmental impacts has been launched, the area becomes most perspective. However, it is much more important than Vučevica to Kozjak, a non-existent tunnel where Sanader Ante, vice president of the Parliament, has some gardeners, invest 40 million kn for the fast road. Cetinski end, an area of 50,000 people, then, on that road sooner you will come from Sinj to Split than from one end, for example. ... to Firul. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that area at that point becomes the most perspective and now it's the most perspective. When we reach the key point of the Kukuzovci, the only thing they have sent us is a harmful project, to take from Vrgorec waste 120 km from the dump to Sinj, to the Sinj waste of Mojenko, municipal dumps, to the damage of Sinj, to the Cetina end, to the drinking waters of Cetina. In this area, the Kukuzovites are the key point of all problems, we also have an economic zone and instead of developing it with that road, the road of life, 50,000 inhabitants, we are building further waste deposits from all over Dalmatia, for what? Because of the failure of the Lečevica project, 30 million kn was dismayed, this harmful project that would endanger the water. Let's move on. We have irrigation, we were supposed to have irrigation of the Sinjsko polje, 6,000 ha, do you know how irrigated it is here in the area, in Split-Dalmatia County in the last 4 years? Zero, nothing. Even channels that exist as drains, which were made after II. svt. War is not clean, it's not maintained, such an example in the Glamours, people can't plant cabbage. Traffic infrastructure, catastrophic. We have in the centre of Sinja, state road No. 1 where schools, trade chains, the centre of Sinj, are limited by walking distance, where children go to school. I offered solutions, I gave solutions to be underpass or overpass, not accepted. We have a collapse from the Croats to Sinj, we have a crowd. Going through Sinj takes you an hour, in the morning, people's lives are at stake. And a number of other projects that are significant, important and that Sinj, the Cetin end, deserve to be boycotted and when I hear this, they release billions, 12 billion, and nothing comes true, except for praises, promises if these projects aren't achieved that the mayor will go before the government and make a tent, there's nothing out of it. Even so, city halls, local self-governments didn't do anything. My city is a city of battle worth fighting for and we will continue to fight and with that goal I entered the assembly, remember with the blue cap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43432	We will now go to 4 debates, on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club will speak to a respected colleague, Marin Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43433	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, we have been living in these extreme pandemic conditions for a year now and I will take the opportunity to look back at another industry that is unfortunately deeply affected by this crisis. It's about the event industry, i.e. Industry of various events such as festivals, concerts, fairs, conferences, weddings. The industry which is banned or restricted among the first and among the last will be allowed to continue to work, which means they are faced with a decline in income of almost 100% and some 100%. Therefore, the event requires the government and the national headquarters to have an emergency opening plan and concrete assistance measures. Since employees in this industry have been in Croatia for a year without the ability to work, nothing still happens to lead to some concrete shifts and concrete assistance. They also stressed that this sector was the most affected by the pandemic and that some other European countries such as the UK, Slovenia and others have done their best to help them. The question is what Croatia is doing today, what the Croatian government is doing today to save this industry, which is also one of the drivers of Croatian tourism. We see that the entire sector has been united by festival organizers, evenats, weddings, fairs, catering, musicians, rental companies and others to point to the width of the hit. Since no adequate assistance has been received from the government so far, the summer season is approaching employees from this industry stress that if another season goes by without a clear plan and support that the Croatian event industry will be absolutely nothing. Event industry numbers 17,000 employees and is extremely important both in economic and social terms. Besides organizers and employees, we must also think about the coming tourist season, i.e. tourists we want to attract to Croatia, and festivals, concerts and fairs are very much contributing to this. The question arises why in Croatia are measures not being taken to save such an important industry as I have already mentioned in other European countries? Some have set up a recovery fund aimed at financial assistance to endangered companies such as repeating Great Britain, Slovenia, Germany, the Netherlands or Denmark. They have taken certain measures to help this sector in such a way that specific aid packages amounting to several billion euros have been allocated. There are state financial guarantees so that organisers can start preparing major events and if events are cancelled that entrepreneurs have the right to cover 70% of the costs precisely from these guarantees. What prevents Croatia from taking such measures? It should be borne in mind that the event industry brings 22 billion kuna. I repeat, 22 billion kuna in the state budget and we really hope that this industry will not be allowed to fail, which contributes with financial benefits and a positive image of Croatia. In this context, we support the steps and measures proposed by event organisers and employees in the sector to help the event industry. It is necessary to cover fixed costs for entrepreneurs engaged in this industry and to open direct communication between the national headquarters and the representatives of the industry's event and to provide the necessary financial resources through the recovery fund, modelled by other European countries. The inclusion of industry events in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan should be considered in order to provide them with the necessary resources because it is obvious that there are modalities and ways to solve the problem, but then our government should act proactively, not close our eyes to the problem we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43462	We are going to another debate, an independent representative, respected colleague Milan Vrkljan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43463	I was running out of time until I was on my way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43464	Comrade Vrkljan, just please, time is a problem because, I can't do something wrong, so I'm gonna hitchhike here 37:07, so it's 40, and it's on, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u43465	Okay? Thank you. I'll talk about health care today. And of course it's normal for me to talk about health care. Today, 2021 Croatian health care is 158 billion kn and what is most tragic is that it is in the last 10 months. That debt grew from 10 billion to 15 billion kuna. If you take that a little bit into the context of the society in which we live, it's five Peles bridges. In the last 20 years, who has run health policy in the Republic of Croatia? It was HDZ and SDP. The HDZ has led us to this debt of 15 billion kuna and is constantly in the public movement and supporting false debates on incomes in health, so Minister Maric himself is unwittingly involved in a public debate, and he invested one billion kunas in health system debt a few days ago, which is less than 10% of that debt, which speaks of how big the problem is. At the same time, discussions on expenditures in the healthcare system are avoided because this directly leads to discussions on staffing in the health system, which is the key problem of the health system. It is evident that there is no health system reform strategy because 80% of the debt in the health system is due to unorganised work in 5-6 large KBCs. At the same time, nothing is done to move the part and the money and the process of the health system to the primary health care where the cheapest thing can be used is every dollar invested. We are one of the few countries that has no monitoring of the outcome of treatment and the monitoring of the outcome of a particular medicinal product on the market. As a result, we are a country in the EU with the most amputations of the progeny as a consequence of diabetes. At the same time, the SDP is part of the strategy implemented in health care. So, if you remember, in 2001 to 2004, the SDP had this famous project of Koprivnica Hospital where 40 million kuna, which the World Bank, which the Republic of Croatia, invested in a failed project, and the head of this project was Stipe Oreshkovic, who was then director of HZJZ and by nothing competent to run one of these, such a system. But what were his qualifications? By the time he was elected to that position, he was only known for being Tito's youth and president of the youth in the past regime. The result of his work is that the state budget was damaged for 40 million dollars, 70% of the money was paid to his friends as intellectual labor, and the World Bank came out of the project shortly after because it was seen as a money launderer. The same one, Stipe Oreshkovic, as Sanader heads HDZ, goes to the EPH and makes 700 million kuna in debt there, so his colleagues in the medical profession called him "Mister of Billion Kuna". Because when we add it after he founded the M plus investment group and got the money from companies that deal with the budget i.e. 3 pension funds and one state fund invested in its 97 million kuna company. The question arises why do state funds invest in venture companies? Otherwise it's Call, Call Center, that's when you call the operator, so call you, you can imagine what an important job it is. Then why are money invested, state money in a company owned by a series of failed projects, and why is HDZ in power giving jobs or money from the budget to SDP personnel? The answer is very simple, SDP and HDZ are the same sister parties, have the same worldview, are followers of the communist regime and are guided by UDBA, KOS and children of communist powers. The result of all this is that Croatia has failed today, there is no reform, and there is a boom of crime, corruption and nepotism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45899	I thank all those who took part in taking a stand, and now, before we move to the agenda, we'll just have a notice. In the agenda of the 7th session, I added two new points, based on Art. 242nd century 4. The Rules of Procedure of the ‘Resent Against the Strong Distance Measures from the Session’ submitted by the representative Dalia Oreskovic and on the basis of Article. 236th century 5. Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the request for an opinion on an infringement. 238. The Rules of Procedure of HS, submitted by MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Now we will move to the debate according to the scheduled agenda, firstly: - The final draft law on amendments to the Law on dental medicine, second reading, P.Z. No. 47. The proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation of the above-mentioned draft law. With us is Secretary of State Željko Plazonić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45900	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, the aim of this law is to regulate the interest of dental hygienist and thus enable them to access the labour market. Medical professionals, dental doctors, dental technicians and dental assistants who are also members of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine are involved in providing dental care. This proposal will also regulate the membership of dental hygienics in the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. Since 2016, the first generations of dental hygienists have been enrolled at the university pre-graduate extraordinary study of dental hygiene and have completed their education at the University of Osijek Medical School for 3 generations and acquired the academic name of the first-grader of dental hygiene. The university pre-graduate study of dental hygiene was completed by a generation of students in Rijeka at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Rijeka, and now at the Faculty of Dental Medicine. Dental hygienists will not be part of the health service network, nor will they be contract entities of the HZZO. Their presence on the labour market will contribute to the expansion of services and provide additional quality especially in health tourism. The proposed law prescribes the work of dental hygienics as outside team health associates. Also, a work permit is prescribed, the conditions for issuing it. The implementation of this law has no financial impact on the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Dental Medicine, the very name of the competent chamber, which is now in the law the Croatian dental chamber so far, will now be in line with the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. Following this carried out, I propose the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45901	I thank the Secretary of State. We've got replicas, so I'm asking him to stay behind the pay phone. The first one's next, dear colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45902	Dear President, respected state secretary, the profession of dental hygienists has been recognised as necessary and necessary in the dental offices of many EU countries. As you mentioned in 2016, the first generation enrolled at the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek in pre-graduate university study of dental hygiene. One generation ended up in Rijeka. Do you have information other than clearly defined legal frameworks how the work of dental hygienists works with us in reality now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45903	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45904	Thank you very much. As dental hygienists now operate, it is a job now performed by one part dental assistants, and other part of the doctor dental specialists. Therefore, that part of the job has been reserved for them for now. If anyone can today, they can't legally hire anyone with a completed pre-graduate study of dental medicine, in this way we'll unload both dental assistants and dental medicine specialists of their routine jobs that will move into the jurisdiction of dental hygienics and thus release those parts of the team to do more sophisticated work that requires a higher level of expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45905	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45906	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, it is clear from this proposal the law and what you have stated that dental hygienists are actually not part of the team that covers HZZO, so they will actually have to earn for their work. When you look at the existing law, Article 36r. It is then stated exactly what tasks are, or tasks of dental hygienist. Of the five above, actually 4 jobs go to that basket of services provided by HZZO. So out of 4 or 5 tooth whitening would be, say, what the dental office could certainly charge the patient. Now, you said that the jobs for dental hygienists would be, I'll be in the debate later on saying what's some kind of problem to hire a dental hygienist in an individual office, but where you see that they'll first have their place of employment, are these polyclinics with more offices, is dental tourism, where you see that first they'll hire those 88, 86 people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45907	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45908	So far, we have registered 88 students, or graduates of the pre-graduate study of dental hygiene. According to the instructions and data from the dental chamber with which we have a great need for such personnel in all the structures of dental medicine as such. It means both private polyclinics and dental clinics, and even beyond that, in a preventive action that is the same part of the job that dental hygienists are going to do. So I do not see any obstacles or concerns that this profile of our young experts will not be found and employed in the labour market for which they are practically and educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45909	Comrade Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45910	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, since the proposed law stipulates that the work of dental hygienist as an outside team health associate means he is not paid by the HZZO, of course, whether where he is, they are clinics or some medical dentists who have a large number of users who are easier to hire such an employee. I'm interested in who will decide or decide what is the price of this dental hygienist's work or what is the salary? Will every infirmary or will it have to be determined by something, by law, by chamber? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45911	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45912	Paying dental hygienists will be a deal between the employees and the one who hires him to work with him. It'll be their personal I'd say deal, we don't have that legal regulations in which someone's gonna pay someone because they're extratimal workers who work, given how many polyclinics, one infirmary has a need for that kind of staff at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45913	And the last replica, Comrade Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45914	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, caries is the most widespread disease of which almost 90% of the entire population suffers, as much as 90% of oral disease can be prevented. In the context of the National Programme's dental passport, more has been said in recent months about the COVID passport, but in the context of the National Programme for the Prevention and Protection of Oral Health in which you are involved, how do you see the role of dental hygienists in the implementation of these national preventive programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45915	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45916	For many years, we have both said, a passport that somehow registers the current state of teeth in children, in kindergartens, in classrooms, in the first grade of primary school, and here we are in some way now and we learn how much cavities in that population are developed and what is coming to us in the fight against further spread and most often disease, although I don't think it's 90%, but it doesn't matter, in any case it's very, very widespread and what we're especially following, and that's that so-called. A cap index that's not at that level we'd like to have for now. But it's not just the cavities that matter. Oral health is important as such because today it is very well known, based on many studies that oral health is not only important as local health but also systemic health because many systemic diseases have a source right in their mouth. So that's very significant. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45917	Thank you very much. You can return to your post, Secretary of State. We're done with the replicas, so let's go see if the representatives of the board will take the floor? [[Intruding Plazonic: Thank you very much.]] If not, then I will open the debate and the first in line will speak to the esteemed colleague Ivan Celic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45918	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The relevant Act on Dental Medicine lays down the structure and conditions for the pursuit of the activity of dental medicine. In providing dental care to patients, healthcare professionals who are also members of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine and the aim of the proposed changes are to regulate the interest of dental technician and provide them with access to the labour market to contribute to the protection of oral health and to increase the quality of health services in dental healthcare. Today, the profession of dental hygienics is recognised as necessary and necessary in the dental offices of large parts of EU countries, and the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine was also the initiator of the curricula process and standards as a qualification for the occupation of dental hygienist. The conditions for the work of dental hygienics have so far not been governed by any regulation as well as the statutes of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, still without these legal changes does not foresee the membership of dental hygienics. Therefore, amendments and additions to the applicable law were necessary to cover a new profile of healthcare professionals. The profession of dental hygienist appears from the moment it was found that oral health can be promoted through regular professional preventive protection. Motivation of patients, education on plaque control, professional prophylactic protection and not surgical paradoxic therapy, require time and practical expertise and are rarely conducted by dental doctors. The oral hygiene movement began in 1843 in the U.S. when some American dental doctors began to hire assistants for preventive services. Founder i.e. The father of dental hygiene was Dr. Alfred Fones who recognized the importance of preserving oral health and the importance of educating children on proper maintenance of oral hygiene due to dental disease prevention. Dental hygienists are health professionals with completed university pre-graduate study of dental hygiene. It has been said, therefore, that since 2016 the first generation of dental hygienics have been enrolled in the Republic of Croatia. After completing the study, the academic name of the first-grader of dental hygiene is obtained. They are trained to implement oral health promotion programmes, prevention of oral disease and education on the importance of maintaining oral hygiene. As health professionals, dental hygienists can apply their skills and skills in different fields of clinical practice, professional and scientific research, public health care and numerous forms of health promotion and disease prevention. Dental hygienists work with dental doctors and other members of health professions to provide oral health care to a patient who is associated with general health. According to the European Paradontological Association, dental hygienist can clean and polish teeth, clean stones and deposits, apply prophylactic materials to teeth, place temporary fillings or crowns, collect data, give extensive advice on oral hygiene and care for the oral cavity, take fingerprints and certain orthodontic duties, so there are very many activities that dental hygienist can do. The demand for dental hygienists has increased over the past decades, education for dental hygienists in Europe is constantly improving, so the role and scope of the procedures performed by dental hygienist is constantly changing. Greater expectations regarding oral health and awareness of the relationship between oral and general health contribute to the growing need for this profession. In better developed European countries, most patients, especially children and young people, are treated only by dental hygienists. Dental hygienists help relieve dental medicine doctors by performing procedures they have been trained for, due to an increasing number of patient visits. Prevention of soft tissue and supportive dental apparatus and loss of permanent teeth are very important in the preservation of general health, so routine checks are needed to give dental hygienists the opportunity to compare the health condition of a person. Nutritionist advice in the prevention of caries and advice on stopping smoking in the prevention of paradentosis and cancer in the area of the oral cavity promotes the general health of patients, another important role as dental hygienic. The following is expected to increase the quality of dental care, given that dental hygienist is more independent than dental assistant in performing his duties. Its activities include the preparation of patients for dental examination, the introduction of patients with preventive oral health, the cleaning of soft and hard deposits, tooth whitening and all other auxiliary actions and jobs according to the instructions and orders of dental medicine doctor. Also, since the proposed law will regulate the interest of dental hygienics, it will have an effect on the opening of new jobs, and the impact is proportionate to the number of people who finish schooling and are potentially involved in the labour market. Among the first and second readings were mostly nomotechnical changes. The HDZ Club will support the final proposal to amend and supplement the Dental Medicine Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45919	The second debate of the SDP representative club respected counterpart Andraj Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45920	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of the proposed law is to regulate the interest of dental hygienics, enable them to access the labour market and thus contribute to the protection of oral health and to increase the quality of health services in dental health care, and we support this. The profession of dental hygienists has been recognised as necessary and necessary in the dental offices of a large part of the EU countries. Following this, the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine was the initiator of the initiation of the process of determining the curiculum and the standard of qualifications for the occupation of dental hygienist. So far, the conditions for the work of dental hygienics have not been regulated by any regulation, in addition to that of dental hygienists so far are not even members of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, so it is clear and necessary to amend and supplement the current Dental Medicine Act to include a new profile of healthcare professionals or dental hygienicists. This also regulates the work of dental hygienics as outside team health associates. Their membership is also regulated in the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, they are prescribed work permits, are now issued for six years and the conditions for issuing that authorisation. In addition, the professional class of dental technicians and the professional class of dental assistants and dental hygienists is established. As we have heard from the first reading of this final proposal of the Law is nomotechnically completed, we have supported in the first reading, we will also support this final proposal. Therefore, this law regulates the interest of dental hygienics and allows them to access the labour market. We currently have the information that they have completed three generations of students at the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek as a university pre-graduate extraordinary study of dental hygiene and have obtained the academic name of the first-grader of dental hygiene, in addition to that, one generation of pre-graduate studies at the University of Rijeka Medical School, so at the Faculty of Dental Medicine 88 completed young people of dental hygienics are waiting for their chance. Other colleges show interest in opening their studies. Therefore, dental hygienists will not be contract entities of HZZO so they enter the open labour market and must earn their salary beyond the basket of services covered by HZZO. In any case, these changes are a step forward and rely on the practice of many European countries, but there is room for improvement. Professional chambers point out that through the affairs of dental hygienic doctors, dental medicine will be freed from some of the jobs such as. cleaning, whitening of teeth, preparing patients for examination, prevention of oral health etc., and then following what we have heard and what we are talking about is more quality dental care, given that dental hygienist is more independent than dental assistant in doing our jobs and therefore we expect better oral health of the population. We can also see from this final proposal that implementation of this law has no financial effect on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia because dental hygienist is not part of the most important team made up of dental doctor, nurse or dental assistant. Now, what I've listed is actually in the replica, according to the article. 36.r. of the existing law states that the activity of dental hygienist covers five of those basic major items. 1. Preparation of patients for examination by dental doctor, 2. Meeting patients with oral health prevention, so tooth cleaning, dental end use, dental brushes, etc., 3. Cleaning soft and hard deposits with soft and hard tissues, 4. Teeth whitening, 5. All other auxiliary actions and jobs according to the instructions and orders of the doctor of dental medicine. When you look at that list of DTP procedures, so a basket of services that covers HZZO of these five actually belongs to a basket of services. So the only thing that can be charged de facto in dental medicine's office is tooth whitening, gave it carbamide peroxide, laser, etc. How much information I have from the field, and I've talked to a lot of colleagues, some dental doctors charge for cleaning rocks, a lot of nots, but this tooth whitening would actually be the only thing that would be charged. So dental hygienists will have to make extra money for their work. Since dental medical offices have a different number of patients from 1600, 2500, 2700 are covered by the amount of headage per patient, from a cold drive with a charge of services that are not on the list of baskets of services the HZZO covers and it is clear that then the team holder will have to provide a doctor of dental medicine with a salary for dental hygienist by charging some services provided by dental hygienist. Furthermore, dental hygienist, since he works under the supervision of dental medicine doctors, so he must be with him during working hours, he must have another equipped work unit, chair, mammal, etc., so that he can work, so that's the part of the technical part that he needs to have in order for a dental hygienist to work in some office, and then the question is, will that individual, a dental doctor, actually be able to afford if anything else, for these technical reasons hire a dental hygienist? It is likely that the first line of employment will be polyclinics, dental tourism, etc., and it would certainly be good if more dental medicine offices were joined in so-called. a group practice such as the Family Medicine Office, which is not enough present, I talked about it a few days ago, where I would say 5 offices, let's say more of them within the home of health, especially where they are in the same location, where the home of health would be easier to invest in this additional unit of work than an individual in his office, and then that group would have one dental hygienic, so we could participate, so in the work of that office a fifth of the working time and then each office would participate in a fifth of the salary. I'd also like to bring out a problem here that some dental doctors have listed to me as well. Therefore, contract dentists who would like to hire at their own expense of additional dentists face the problem that he can perform services only from the sphere of private, so why is it charged because the leading dentist doctor is obliged to do all the contracted patients who have registered to him and provide them with services from the list of DTP procedures prescribed by the HZO without charging them, and then there is the obstacle to spreading the diapazon services and the number of employees in the office. Let's get back to the dental hygienist. He definitely plays an important role in achieving and maintaining optimal oral health. Their most important role is prevention. So, they could take care of oral health and out of surgery, so in schools, in kindergartens, in homes for elderly and powerless, in hospitals, for example in JIL, so intubated patients etc., but how their work must be supervised by dental medicine doctors in practice will be de facto oriented to work precisely in these dental medicine offices. During the public consultation with the one in the first reading, there were several suggestions that interested dental hygienists, as a model to other countries Denmark, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, Sweden, Canada, etc., should be able to work independently from dental medicine doctors and have their own practice, such as private dental technicians who have a lower degree of education, but for the time being our Health Protection Act does not allow. In the Netherlands dental hygienists have more affordable and affordable prices for their services than dental medicine doctors. There, too, the use of dental medicine doctors, given the long-term and schooling costs, is considered to be too high a cost for preventive action, and it is precisely that dental hygienists release the doctor’s time for curatives and thus lead to a reduction in health costs. Our health system is underinvested in prevention and dental hygienists should put emphasis on the motivation and education of patients on proper maintenance of oral hygiene. The activity of dental technicians is to rehabilitate the oral cavity and make the necessary dental prosthetic replacements that are part of health care, health insurance and population health. And since dental health care also includes preventive and curative dental health care and dental help rights, then, in fact, with one thought-out distribution of tasks and jobs, we could just work to make the oral health of our inhabitants better, because we really cannot boast with the degree of the presence of caries and diseases of the oral cavity. This year, 1.2 billion kuna is spent on dental care and is precisely different from the legal changes and reforms that follow us, hopefully, we will, in fact, provide our residents with better health care including dental care. I've got a lot of things I've prepared to talk to myself about, but then I'll get back to you in an individual discussion and work out a little more on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45921	Thank you, too. Now let's go to the presentation of respected counterpart Silvan Hrelje, Silvano Hrelja o, that's the club of representatives of HSS and HSU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45922	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So we're here to discuss the content of the law, but also the form. About the form of the law I'd like pie, asked here publicly what would our Gentiles say to these names on these professions? Why are we termed "mural hygiene", "mural assistant", "mural hygienist", "mural technician", which had to be changed just as usual in the form of the law. It's a matter of form, but it's also a question of showing a relationship to your own, your own language, and it's not really an honor. So, of course, as far as the content here is concerned, there is no doubt, here is the introduction of a “dental hygienist” or a “dental hygienist” member, so he is not a member of the team, but he gets the right of citizenship and the right to legal and legitimate work, he is trained for this, therefore not outside of the system, becoming part of the system, part of the system. This is not about a large number, they are being introduced into the system, and what's going to happen is just a colleague Andreja Marić debated and I think that her debate has her own weight to think about for the future because we really lack in the preventive protection of people of such character, so it is still about the less complexity of the affairs in the dental, dental office on the team and the question is, that is, where I'm going to ask the dilemma is the next question. The dilemma is about the claim that this law no longer requires money from the state budget. Look, so far we've had one standard number of such services, as many dentists have arrived to do these dental hygiene services and they've been charged by HZZO. These services are charged by HZZO. Now if 84 people enter the system exactly in teams that are bigger, which are stronger, which have more patients and services will increase, which means that there will be a greater demand to collect these services than HZZO which is normal to me. It won't be a big deal, nothing epochal, nothing big, nothing significant. This can't be compared to the HZZO budget is some big problem, but why do we say the explicits that there won't be a possible cost increase, and let's say there will be a minimum cost increase. And the justification for why we introduce dental hygienist into the system is more than evident that it deals with and expands the network of these simpler jobs in this activity. We're probably starting with a dental hygienist who's not a member of the team, probably in some future time, he's going to get additional assignments and become a member of the team. I don't mind if one activity develops like that. At this point it is important to conclude only that the first-grader of dental hygiene or dental hygiene, dental assistant and dental hygienist cannot work independently, it is a limiting factor. I suppose the legislators also went with caution throughout this cycle, so I find someone, some justification while this dental technician can work, work on his own. So some categories are approximately educational at the same level. In any case, I think that this bill which was discussed in the first and second reading received certain nomotechnical improvements, suitable for adoption in the Croatian Parliament and the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU with these remarks, along with these dilemmas which will remain for us and for some time future in any case will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45923	Let's move on, now it's individual debates. The first is a respected colleague, Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45924	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, here we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Dental Medicine. The proposed law aims to regulate the interest of dental hygienics and enable them to access the labour market, thus contributing to the protection of oral health, to increase the quality of health services and to dental health care. I think it's already through the opening statements of both the secretary of state and my colleagues very well explained, and I think that we have well expanded this topic precisely with all the problems that exist that what is most important dental hygienist by definition a healthcare professional trained to implement oral health promotion programs, prevention of oral cavity disease and education of the importance of maintaining the oral cavity. This is very important because I think that just prevention not only in the field of oral medicine but in all areas should actually be the most important segment and that it would contribute to reducing health costs, better health conditions, and I think that we all need to work together to make this prevention as high as possible in all areas. This is one form that if you live, if you experience what you should, now that is the beginning means with 80 and some employees to contribute here exactly to oral health, from the beginning of kindergartens, primary schools to those of the elderly who are in that section, the segment is not educated and they do not know how to maintain oral hygiene. Of course, if there is a healthy diet that is also important, it is already an extension of this area of prevention in the protection of the health of the organism. And that's why it's important that we adopt this bill of law, of course, I think it will be a law that will be unanimously adopted and that we will primarily enable these new 80s, meaning the new 3 generations of dental hygienists who have completed their education in Osijek to find their job and one generation at the Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka, so that we can make it possible on the labour market to get a new job or job insurance. What's important to me here, I asked the secretary of state just for the salary because as much as I saw the dental medical chamber mean the lowest price of work of a dental doctor, the lowest price of a dental technician's work, I think the lowest price of a dental hygienist should be determined, and then, of course, further with that director or the doctor with whom the contract will be concluded, which will be the salary for which this part of the job will work. Here, I think this is a good, quality proposal that we're all going to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45925	Stay, you have one replica of your colleague Kirin here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45926	Dear President, the distinguished representative's appearance of dental hygienists expects better dental care. The dental hygienist is more independent in his work and doing his job than a dental assistant. In your opinion, will their work be fully according to the instructions and under the supervision of dental doctor and the role of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45927	So I think it's very important that one, that dental medical or polyclinic office, or that has a particularly large number of insurance companies to have such an employee, who will take over one part of the job, which will reduce, we are now aware that there are waiting lists in dental medicine, that patients are ordered for a month to check teeth or tooth disease, so I just think that with these employees we could do this to reduce this pressure, to ensure faster health care and quality work. And I think it's on the chamber right now to regulate and protect this new form or new employee that exists, or occupation that we've provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45928	Thank you, colleague Karlic. We're going to another individual debate, dear colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45929	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we've heard what's really important and the role of dental hygienists. I think it is very important that the Ministry, the Chamber of Dental Medicine, promote the role of dental hygienists and among their colleagues, but also in the general public, and stress their importance to work alongside a basic team in dental medicine, so I hope that the ministry will also actually promote their importance and their importance. I would just like to say a few more things for those who may no longer have dealt with this topic more closely, related to this basket of services provided by HZZO or with services that could be provided by dental hygienists, which could not actually be covered by a basket of services. Therefore, according to the existing rules, the insured person of our institution, in accordance with the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, exercise the right to the burden of the institution’s funds on the listed dental health care services in health institutions and in the case of private workers involved in the public health service network or having a contract with the HZZ. And now this dental health care includes procedures and services that are classified in several levels. When you look at it a little bit, the code starts with a DM with a three-digit number, and we can find it all in the dental health care rule from mandatory health insurance. First, there is a zero level of curativeness and prevention for all insured persons whom each agreed dental medical office must provide to anyone who has applied for it as a regular patient. Then there's the DTP first level of prevention for children by the age of 18. and then insured persons over the age of 18, and then there are DTPs of the first level of curatives for children up to 18 years or for all insured persons and then the third item in that entire dental protection is for all insured persons prosthetics and then another DTP first level prosthetics for insured persons older than 18 years and in fact each of these services has a certain point based on which dental medical offices achieve that diapazon of jobs they do and provide to insured persons. That Regulation also lists orthodonal anomalies and procedures in the activities of orthodontics for insured persons until the 18th year of life which can be achieved on the burden of the institution. Now the insured person is also exercising his right to dental aid, repair of dental aid, right to the orthodontic device and repair of the orthodox device by the rulebook. And now from this total amount that the dental medical office is paying for both work and materials and dental technicians in procedures related to orthodontics. When you look at what the diapazon price is, it is from 65 kuna for work and material when making study models for a fixed orthodonal device for one jaw and up to 595 kuna therefore work and material of dental technician when making a mobile orthodonal device for both jaws. And from this all that comes in the office of dental medicine there will, of course, have to be made some kind of calculation of how a dental hygienist will also be financed. One item also told me by dental medicine doctors, which bothers them that there are no principles of inheriting the office when dental medicine doctor goes into retirement, means to a full extent a complex office, and the problem remains. The next thing some local and regional self-government individuals have certainly worked for their residents is to provide their own overstandards, such as in Međimurje County since the beginning of October 2017. The Međimurci may have an on-call dental team that has received various dental medical offices. We have, for example, 52 dental medicine offices that are part of the dental medicine network, and there would actually be room for more than one of these clinics, or for more patient enrolment just if there was some possibility that dental hygienists would get into this whole story, that there was some kind of financial calculation to actually get dental doctors less involved in prevention, and actually more curative, which unfortunately still has work to do, so I'm going to need a stronger prevention that would make people aware that they're not waiting for the last moment, that they don't come up with a cavities, that there are problems, that there have to be emergency situations, and in all of that, I'm going to finally talk about what I personally like is the question of the dental passport or the national dental programme for care or cleaning of teeth so that I'll say something later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45930	Thank you. We have two replicas, first fellow Shimic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45931	Dear colleague Maric. So today's debate has repeatedly mentioned the independence of the work of dental hygienics, do you think that the current competences listed are sufficiently well-defined and do you think in the future that the competences of dental hygienics can be changed according to the decisions of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45932	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45933	Thank you very much. You can read for a first reading then you have there in public consultation someone had written some 70 items and actually competences that a dental hygienist can do. Everyone in our health care, you know, when we finish college we're not quite able to work on our own yet, so there's got to be some kind of surveillance on whether a doctor in regular health care or the supervision of a dental doctor, but in any case after that some initial advance, let's just say, in practice I believe that time will show that dental hygienists will definitely have their place, even wider the diapases of these jobs that are listed here in this article 36r., so I believe there will be work for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45934	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45935	Thank you. Dear colleague Maric, you have pointed out the importance of prevention. I think it's very important in kindergarten and lower-class children. Whether this dental hygienist can go to kindergartens or lower classes of elementary school alone and actually talk about the need to prevent the way teeth are washed and so on. Or does a dental doctor have to go with him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45936	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45937	Thank you. So one part of it I touched where dental hygienists could work, I mentioned that they could work in kindergartens, schools, hospitals, etc., but now the existing legal framework does not predict that they are completely independent of dental medicine doctors. Since it is very clear that we agree to prevent and must actually start from the earliest age, and what I will do later is look back on that dental passport, so for this dental passport program there are doctors of dental medicine, so teams and privates and those who are under the HZZO network, and then we will be able to hope that dental hygienists who will actually be part of that team that is doing prevention in kindergartens or schools. So on my own, I can't go through this alone right now, if I get it right, I think I am, but with a doctor of dental medicine, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45938	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to a respected colleague, Hrvoje Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45939	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, and here we are under discussion on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dental Medicine, which aims to define a new profession, the new profession of dental hygienist. Where does the history of dental hygiene go? So it goes back to the mid-19th century on the U.S. area where for the first time and defined the Law on Dental Hygiene, which was passed in New York in 1916, and this powerful influence from the United States is also spreading to the area of Europe, and dental hygiene is first mentioned in the area of Europe in Norway in 1924. History of education of dental hygienists as already stated in 2015 where the first pre-graduate university study of dental hygiene was opened in Osijek. The second opened in 2017 on, within the Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka and so far, 4 generations of students have completed this study and within 6 semesters the professional name of the first-grader or first-grader of dental hygiene has been obtained. The current Law on dental care was attended by doctors of dental medicine, dental technicians and dental assistants who were also members of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. The aim of this proposed law is to regulate this very new profession, enable it to access the labour market and, of course, contribute to additional protection of oral health. The profession of dental hygienists is recognised as necessary and necessary by the following which the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine has also set up a curricula and a standard of qualification for this profession, as well as the strategy of the dental medicine chamber from 2017 to 2025. So far, dental hygienists have not been members of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, and therefore it is necessary to enable the addition of the applicable law to profile this new profession. The implementation of this law, as already said, will not have a negative impact on the state budget, but will allow the creation of new jobs, and dental hygienist will work as an outside team health associate and will not be part of the fiscal burden on the financial plan of the HZZO. The activity of dental hygienist will be carried out according to instructions and under the supervision of dental medicine doctors as we have also heard what is extremely important, and will be carried out and will primarily include preventive procedures to prepare the patient for examination in dental medicine, to introduce patients with the correct method of performing oral hygiene, the correct method of cleaning and brushing of teeth and the use of dental stones, and the use of dental end and proper use of dental brushes. What is new is that it will be able to clean soft and hard deposits on its own and do tooth whitening. We have to say for these two procedures that according to the HZZO procuring officer in DTP, removing stones was possible twice a year at the cost of HZZO, while tooth whitening is one of the superstandards that was particularly paid. Finally, as regards the text of the first reading of the bill, this final text of the law has been drawn up and it has just prescribed legal medicinal products in the process of issuing a licence for the work of a dental assistant and dental hygienist and has completed all the infringement provisions for carrying out activities beyond the scope of a given authorisation for independent work and infringement provisions in relation to keeping a professional secret and keeping a prescribed record and dental documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45940	Thank you, you have two replicas, so please stay. The first one's a colleague of Shimičević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45941	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, here you are, in the end, saying that the bill has been made and that it is quality and better than the first reading. And here we are talking about a dental hygienist who is independent in his work, but I think it's extremely important that he has professional control and why is it important that a dental hygienist has the supervision of dental medicine in his work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45942	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45943	Here's a respected colleague, given that it's a new profession, a new profession, that it's actually a new activity, it's extremely necessary for her to be under supervision at first, under the supervision of one who's actually a team holder, and that's a dental doctor who's been educated and properly taking a history, not to mention communicating with other doctors who are involved in the treatment of patients because the patient didn't come while the dentist just came up with the problem of oral cavity and tooth problems, but as the secretary of state mentioned, there's always other commodities that present the modem as a particular threat, so it's just important that this surveillance is at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45944	And another replica, colleague Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45945	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you've obviously studied the rulebook, so you see what services actually go through DTP that can only be charged. Teeth whitening definitely doesn't go into this basket service but this cleaning stone goes. However, there is obviously some gray zone in practice because even in those contract offices of dental medicine, some charge for cleaning stones, some do not. How would you solve this problem? Do you think it might be some kind of global problem or that it's just individuals, do you have any knowledge about it? So whitening teeth is charged, cleaning shouldn't be done but sometimes charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45946	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45947	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, of course, all contract entities that have a contract with HZZO should respect everything they have signed and guaranteed, of course they should work and meet patients, users of all our services precisely with rights, of course and obligations, and in this way they would first prevent any possible abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45948	Thank you, we're done with the replicas and we're moving on with the individual debate. Dear colleague Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45949	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. Well, a fine representative of the paper promoter read how wise Alfonso concluded and recognized the importance of dental hygiene for the preservation of dental health. As well as nicely all HDZ representatives stressed that the aim and purpose of this law is to make a new profession, a new profession available on the labour market. And that's actually all the point, all the trouble this law is dealing with. And I'm asking a question, isn't it hypocritical that someone from the HDZ ranks asks a question in the replica, why is it important that a dentist has a dental hygienist on his team when this law itself, and that's specifically said, we didn't overlook that a dental hygienist enters that package that's covered by the cost of HZZO and we boast that this law has no effect on the state budget, so we're actually going to let dental hygienists open the labour market where they're actually going to look for their jobs in private and private dental clinics? I am sorry that, in fact, only colleague Marić, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, made an effort to talk to our dentists, regardless of how much their activities work and work, so that they can ask them what real opportunities are and what is the real space for opening the job of dental hygienist. And I will just point out the danger of getting a reminder again that I am not sticking to the subject, that the Croatian Parliament must not allow itself to be as superficial as the superficial legislators of the law, that we should not just scratch the surface. So if we open up a legal opportunity for someone to access the labour market, then we need to ask ourselves, and what are the real opportunities for someone to get a job on that labour market? And where are the problems, where are the difficulties with dentists in private practice to create a financial opportunity and financial space to create a new job on their team. So we didn't say anything about membership in the chamber. This law seems that this chamber will benefit much more than its members in terms of dental hygienists and especially from this law will not benefit themselves because the question of how many dental hygienists we will employ, how much is an office that has a financial space to pay for one person whose services can be provided anyway by someone else... which is paid more financially. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will mention two examples, concrete examples of life that have been told to me by dentists who are fighting on the market itself, so they have their own private practices. We have a situation where a dentist performs his service within the home of health and pays the rent approximately, rent and directorship of 3,000 kn County. At the same time, it has its own company, which has a whole range of credited devices, loans are paid off, some of them have been raised through the HAMAG Bicro co-financing model. And where's the problem? Well, the problem is that the health care office in the county-owned health care office is derutistic, with no equipment, and the private office actually provides the standard that users should have. In accordance with the Regulation on minimum conditions in the examination of the space of workers and medical technical equipment for the performance of health activities, there is no possibility that the office which is in the lease of the county is placed in a private space in which dental services are provided within a company. So our rules say they're two legal entities, so for that reason it might even be in some same space, there's got to be separate entrances, separate waiting rooms, separate sanitary nodes, and then we're going to get the person who's brought into such a situation because of a rule that doesn't really understand the market on the ground of those who go to the burden of health insurance going to one door and privates to the other. So, if we are not able to free privates from these unreasonable rules, we will hardly get to the point where a health technician can be employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45950	Thank you very much. We've come to an end with individual debates and we're going to final debates now. The SDP Representatives' Club and respected colleague Andreja Maric reported, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45951	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. So, Madam Secretary of State, you have realized that at this point you have support for the adoption of this law, but I hope you will appreciate as a ministry everything you've heard today and last time in the debate, but all that has been said during the public consultation because there have been a lot of good proposals and in fact the current problems that exist on the ground so far. We think this is just the first step, so these young people have finished education, now we're just passing a law that allows them to come to work at all and go to the labour market, but I think as a doctor in the first order that we finally have to figure out what the cost of benefit is today. So the first thing is to prevent and put an emphasis on prevention, and then it's just curative, and it's the other way around. So, we're so bad about general health or oral health right now if we talk about it today, it's actually very important that the more we give exactly the indication and importance of those who are going to carry out prevention. Therefore, based on these poor health indicators and poor oral health conditions, all happiness has been passed so that this programme is called the "tooth passport" that has been implemented with us since 2017. and what's good, is aimed at improving oral health and health behavior and school and preschool children with the aim of early detection and prevention of cavities. Therefore, mandatory examinations carried out to issue this form of ‘tooth passport’ include, just so you know, pre-entering the kindergarten means dental examination with the issue of the form ‘tooth passport’ to contribute to the paediatric belief with the mandatory recovery of carousel lesions of milk teeth if there is one. Second, prior to enrolment in the 1st grade of primary school with mandatory rehabilitation of carousel lesions of dairy and permanent teeth and examination in the 6th grade of primary school. So it is precisely an opportunity for both parents and children to get acquainted with the importance of prevention or early recovery of problems. We have already spoken and there have been some questions in the replica who can participate in these prevention programmes. So there's a great role of dental medicine doctor, certainly there will be dental hygienists, since they can't go on their own, but they will be able to actually go on the ground within or along with dental doctors and as much work on prevention as possible. These dental medical doctors who do not have a contract with HZZO, I don't know what the field data is, to what extent they're actually involved in all of this. And in addition to this program of "teeth passport" it is certainly necessary to continue the program of national brushing teeth in kindergartens and elementary schools, it is extremely important for children from the earliest age of life, and since I said that we have poor oral health, I think that some or many adults should actually make sure that they do a little more work on their healthy habits. So here's the conclusion that we've already said on behalf of the club, so we support this law, but we're asking you to adopt everything we've suggested, and you're going a step further, so that this diapazon of preventive investigations and examinations is actually going to be put into a basket in which dental hygienists will be able to participate, because as I said according to what I know about the technical problems on the ground, I'm afraid not all the individual offices of dental medicine will be able to afford a place where that dental hygienist will work, nor in the beginning of any work unit. So here's one step at a time, I guess then there's going to be a big spread for those who hire dental hygienists because in the end, young people are still at school, so they're still going to finish, they're not just going to be 88. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45952	Thank you. The secretary of state, Honored Zeljko Plazonic, also called to speak on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45953	Thank you, well-respected President, distinguished Parliamentarians and MPs. I do not have the usual to take the floor at the end of a bill, but since this discussion was very intense, I would say intensely, and since there was a lot of information, then I must first of all show great satisfaction that you dear colleague Maric like the "tooth passport" because from 2017. In fact, it is the product of the Ministry of Health and our Committee for Oral Hygiene and Oral Health, so I would not like to take it upon myself, but I am one of those creators of this "tooth passport" and we went through several counties to promote and "tooth passport" and explain what and how and how to work with it and what it is. I would just point out that in addition to dental hygienics and those tasks that they are legally allowed to perform, dental hygiene and oral health is actually part of the elementary culture of health of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason that oral health has unspeakable negative consequences on a whole series of systemic diseases that have not been recognised as having one of their etiological moments and in oral health. Unfortunately, we don't have enough time to tell you, but that's the fact that by improving oral health, we're going to have significant successes in many medical disciplines of other systemic diseases, that's what's important. And now that I've talked to dentists almost every day, but very often, but I've also talked to students who have completed the study of dental hygiene, I would use this opportunity to thank you all on their behalf for supporting this law and the possibility of opening their employment on the health service market. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45954	Stay in line one, colleague Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45955	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I must say, I'm actually very glad that you're glad that I commended you. So, I don't even see who's in there right now, but here's what I'm glad if that's what you're in for. Well, first of all, as a doctor, I'm looking at whether something's good or not. So we're constantly emphasising you on prevention is of course number one, you know it ourselves, we're still coughing in it, bone benefit analysis is zero points and around covids and about any problem we touch, so here's hoping that this broad debate will benefit you and that the sooner you'll start with reforms throughout health, and not just in the field of dental medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45956	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45957	I thank you for agreeing together because it is something where any party membership is not important at all, and we in the ministry or at least me while I am a member of this ministry respect what the ministry means as such in its Latin translated into Croatian as my colleague Hrelja said the meaning. To minister means to serve the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45958	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we're gonna take a ten-minute break, please air the space, continues at 11 o'clock for 35 minutes. It's 11:23 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45960	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.35 HOURS]] First, this point will be: A) Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2019 (B) Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession European Union assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2019 (C) Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes for the period from 1 July to 30 June 2020 (D) Report on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2020. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia according to the Croatian Parliament's conclusion at the meeting held on 24 October 2014. The debate was conducted by the EU Committee on Regional Development and Funds. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, Velimir Zunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45961	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament, as you heard the subject are the half-year reports on the use of European Structural and Investment Funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020. So it's about four half-year reports. The Croatian Government is obliged to submit regular six-month reports on the use of European structural investment funds and pre-accession EU assistance programmes to the Croatian Parliament on 24 October 2014. The reports provide a review of the financial indicators of utilisation and a description of the state of implementation of the European Structural and Investment Funds for the financial period 2014 to 2020 through an overview of the operational programmes and to the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, the Operational Programme of Effective Human Resources, the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries and the Rural Development Programme. Furthermore, half-yearly reports on the use of pre-accession aid programmes and European structural instruments include key implementation data of 1, 2 and 5 IPA components and operational programmes of the financial period 2007. – 2013, which was the Operational Programme Regional Competitiveness, the Operational Programme for Transport, the Operational Programme for Environmental Protection, the Operational Programme for Human Resources Development and the Operational Programme for Fisheries. I will now brief you on the state of use of European Structural and Investment Funds in the financial perspective of 2014. – 2020, therefore, through the reporting periods, but before that, of course, I will say that the total allocation for the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014 has been allocated. It amounts to EUR 10.73 billion in 2020. Therefore, during the reporting period from 1 January to 30 June 2019, so the first half of 2019 was agreed on projects worth EUR 957,39 million, and when summed up cumulatively from the first day of implementation until half of 2019, total EUR 7,59 billion was agreed, and 70,78% of allotted to us. It has been paid to end-users EUR 687,33 million, and when we look at it cumulatively since the start of implementation it is EUR 2,67 billion and 24,89% of the allocated funds. And it has been certified in total, so overall since the start of the implementation of EUR 2.01 billion and 18.76% of the allocations. As regards the second reporting period, from 1 July to 31 December 2019, projects worth EUR 1.40 billion were agreed, and when we look cumulatively from the start of the implementation, it is EUR 8.99 billion and 83.78% of allotted. It has been paid to end-users EUR 640.82 million, and cumulatively since the start of implementation until the end of 2019, EUR 3.31 billion, i.e. 30.85 allocations. Therefore, in this same period, a total of EUR 3 billion has been confirmed, and 27.92% of the allocated funds have been allocated since the start of implementation. When we talk about the first half of 2020, from January 1st to June 30th, projects worth EUR 1.25 billion were agreed, and cumulatively from the start of the implementation of EUR 10.24 billion and 95.43% of the allocations. It has been paid to end-users EUR 677,5.9 million, so cumulatively since the start of EUR 3.99 billion and 37.17%, respectively. It is therefore confirmed that up to that point, up to half of 2020, €3.31 billion, or 30.81% of the funds allocated. And finally, for the last reporting period that I am reporting today, projects worth EUR 1.84 billion were agreed from 1 July to 31 December 2020, which leads cumulatively to a total of EUR 12.08 billion, i.e. to a rate of 112.57% of the allocated funds. It has been paid to end-users EUR 1.01 billion which leads cumulatively to EUR 5 billion and 46.62% of the allocations. Finally, a total of €4.39 billion has been confirmed since the start of the implementation, or 40.89% of the allocations. If we add all these four reports together and sum it up in several figures and percentages we will get that during the reporting period in 2019 and 2020, we agreed projects worth €5.45 billion, which is 45% in total until the contracted funds. The EUR 3,02 billion was paid, which is actually over 60% of the total paid towards end-users, and EUR 2,61 billion was certified, which is also almost 60% of the total amount certified from the beginning of 2020. A few words on the state of use of pre-accession aid programmes and European structural instruments from the 2007 financial perspective. — 2013, i.e. for the financial period 2007. – 2013, in 2019 and 2020, of course, there were no new contracts, and the value of the contractual funds at that date was EUR 1.27 billion. The total amount paid by the end of 2020 is EUR 1.12 billion, and since all projects have already been completed, there is no possibility of reporting any new costs, there has been no bargaining, there has been no payment to end-users, so what is only possible after the completion and final analysis of all projects and audits is possible only or certain financial corrections or returns under the contract. So we have a case that in this reporting period the total value of the paid funds is reduced by 3.52 million euros in total and that is a reduction of 0.31% of the total amount paid. So the total amount certified by the end of 2020 is 1.16 billion euros. During that reporting period during the 19th, 20th, 0.36m euros and 0.03% of the total amount verified were confirmed. I will also say a few sentences about irregularities, so in the reporting periods in 2019 and 2020. The European Anti-Fraud Office has been reported with 141 new cases of irregularities identified and 43 cases from the European Regional Development Fund, 24 cases from the Cohesion Fund, 6 cases from the European Social Fund, 57 cases from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and 11 cases from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. In this report, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, A significant growth and contracting of projects and payments towards end-users has been continued, as has the certification of funds from European Structural and Investment Funds. The numbered indicators achieved in both absolute and percentage terms guarantee that we are on a good path and that it is realistic to expect that the Republic of Croatia will make full use of all the resources allocated from the European Structural Investment Funds. So much for this opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45962	Thank you very much. Here's the line. I think everyone present now in the assembly, so let's get on with it. The first is the replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45963	In the meantime, I'm going to ask you to explain to me why you don't respect HS decisions? In 2014, HS ordered you to give regular six-month reports, and you made it an incredible travesty by giving us a two-year report that you divided into six-month chapters. What will be the sanctions for such conduct and contempt of HS decisions be my first question? And the second question is, how many proceedings have been carried out so far, and persons have been punished by art. 258. Penalty by subsidizing fraud in terms of eu funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45964	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45965	Thank you very much for asking the honourable MPs. First of all, I would like to say that this is no unusual practice that we have more reports suddenly on the subject or at the discussion in HS. I think there's an objective reason why we're late, and that's also a pandemic that definitely didn't help to report as such delivery earlier. But what is crucial in the whole story is that with these reports we come only a few months back, according to the end of 2020, and now it's April 2021. So you got all the information on all the reports that are on the subject. As for your second question, we will deliver the answer in writing because I cannot answer it at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45966	Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has raised a breach of the rules of procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45967	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. Not only have we not received reports within the time period we needed but we are also told that this is not an unusual practice. I will remind myself that there are laws, there are conclusions, there are regulations and in a legally standardised state they should be implemented, everything else is the ultimate demeaning of this body because we did not have the opportunity to respond in time to irregularities in the report which then may not have appeared in the next period that we received a six-month report as the law or conclusion of the Parliament requires.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45968	Thank you very much. I estimate there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45969	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, counterpart Selak Rasudić insults his colleagues and is clearly plagued by the success of the withdrawal of European funds. You said that there is no processing industry from today going to a billion kuna tender, and if we remember the previous government that has not sent a single report at all, and that this report includes the whole of 2020, and we have often had to discuss reports in the Assembly 2018, 2019, this is very current today for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45970	Thank you very much. It wasn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm now asking those who have now raised us not to go any further because there will be replicas, and there won't be any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I'm accepting this that you thought it was a broken Rules of Procedure, I don't think so, but let's not go into replicas now. We have time for replicas, everyone has a chance for replicas, we have an opportunity for individual speech, etc., so I plead not to go now into alleged injuries of the Rules of Procedure which are not, and that I don't have to make warnings, etc. Can we accept that? We can't. Okay. The Honorable Representative Bulj has raised a breach of his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45971	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A fellow Pavić was injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure demeaning a colleague, i.e. Selak Rasdic, and by guessing the Croatian government i.e. a representative of the Croatian Government who does not respect the laws adopted by HS and the Rules of Procedure. So disrespecting the law of HS from that body that would triangulate the law and that it does the Croatian government is, above all, inappropriate. We Croatian MPs in HS trial would be unique... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45972	Thank you very much. And it wasn't like I assumed the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I beg you once again, I won't be giving you any warning, but in the future, I'm going to be warning you of such things. My colleague Selak Rasdic, please don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45973	Art. 238. I really have to react because this time my colleague really demeaned me, Art. 238, because he said I was insulting the MPs, which is completely untrue. So, I've listed only the facts, and I can see that my colleague Pavic has not yet recovered from the knockouts I've set him up because he failed to name the processing industry or his government in key documents that will withdraw funds from the EU funds. Thank you for listening to me, which at least now is what this is about if you haven't thought about it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45974	Thank you very much. It wasn't, as you know, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It was a replica. I'm doing it again and again, and now I'm really going to start giving warnings. Okay? I mean, I don't care who abuses the Rules of Procedure will get this one for abuse from now on. I was a little intolerant at first, but I can see that tolerance doesn't seem to work. We now have an answer, or a respected representative of Begonja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45975	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State, until 31 December 2020 The multi-annual financial envelope agreed, you said, 12.08 billion, which is 12.57% more than the funds were allocated. About 5 billion were paid, or about 41.39% of the contract. When is the deadline for the payment of funds from that multiannual financial envelope, and whether the administrative capacity of the implementing bodies affects the dynamics of the payment of those funds? We have a situation that the projects were completed months ago and they're still waiting for payments to be made to the ZNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45976	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45977	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, the deadline for and implementation and for the use of funds is 31 December 2023. Because it goes according to rule N+3, so if the financial perspective is '14-'20. means until the end of '23. It will also be possible to implement projects and also to require compensation for all these projects. As for capacity, we definitely have some problems, so we don't have to wait that long, but we've cut those deadlines because it's because people are professional, so I'd say more qualified, so compared to a few years ago, and we'll try to strengthen these existing capacities, and also by increasing their number that in the period ahead, we'll try to cut those deadlines, and that in the period ahead and when we expect even more instruments to actually reduce them to the least possible measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45978	The replica of the respected MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45979	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, based on this report on the use of EU funds and aid itself in the last 2nd year, as regards Split and the Split-Dalmatia County, I must take the opportunity here to transfer the satisfaction of all cities and municipalities related to the urban agglomeration of Split and this ITU mechanism itself, the same has proved to be a full hit for municipalities and cities that have thus been able to agree on their own areas of importance for EU funding. Here's what I'm going to do, for example, is revitalize the cultural heritage itself. On this trail, I'm curious about how many ITU areas are going to be in the new financial perspective, and are you thinking about increasing the total allotment precisely for this mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45980	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45981	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, ITU mechanisms have shown certain, so I would say so positive because not only in the town of Split, but also in the other 6 major Croatian or largest Croatian cities, the ITU mechanism is being implemented so called. Great ITU, we have so-called. The ITU mechanism and intensity is of course to continue with the ITU mechanism and therefore we have decisions for some other cities as much as possible, as little as possible throughout the Republic of Croatia, but as we are in the programming phase of the new financial perspective after negotiations with the European Commission then we will know the precise state of affairs and how much alaction and how much these ITU centres will be, but we are also hoping to do the same, and therefore we will be very much in favour of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds that this ITU mechanism will continue and that this allocation will be as large as possible so that cities can finance projects that they really need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45982	The replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45983	Thank you very much. Here is mentioned earlier the agglomeration of the Split-Dalmatia County which absolutely has no points of contact with agglomeration, which are local self-government, plumbing, local and of course the Ministry of Water and Croatian Water, so that the story is empty. The only thing to be respected State Secretary pictures the mayor where successful agglomerations are, and where agglomerations such as the agglomeration of Sinj where the centre of Sinja fecal water enters the river Cetina and pollutes our water, there is no mayor except when contracts and pre-contracts were signed. My key question, which we are on the EU list after the withdrawal of funds, are we still the last or the last, can you tell us exactly after the withdrawal of the funds that we are members of the EU in this means 7-year period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45984	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45985	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We're not the last, not the last, not the last, not the close. As you have seen or heard in the last few years, especially in the last 2 years. During '19. And the '20s. Despite all these challenges and difficulties that we have, the Republic of Croatia has moved significantly on a scale that is regularly monitored and we can say that we are in a golden environment, and since we are therefore the youngest member of the EU and for the first time we are using such a large alocation, so which I have already said is 10.73 billion euros, we can be very pleased because we are in the past 7-8 years. We've been through a lot, and we've gained a great deal of experience, of course we've been wrong in these procedures because it's normal and human because we haven't had the capacity, we haven't had the ready projects, but with that experience after 8 years. We therefore have a much more ready team, which will therefore make it even better to withdraw funds from the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45986	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45987	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly. When we look at the total contract, 116% means that this envelope of EUR 10.7 billion will be used, i.e. that it is agreed, used. By flexibility of EU funds, we have directed everything that remains beyond us during the Croatian Presidency to help lend to our entrepreneurs and to obtain medical equipment. But also during our chairmanship, a new mechanism was established called REACT-EU, which is essentially an extra asset to the already existing envelope. Croatia has helped establish this mechanism, and we have negotiated that the money will also start to compete for the processing industry. counterpart Selak Rasudiæ, may be in the illusion that it is for her intervention, but Croatia has been negotiating this for a very long time and if you can inform us of a recent competition concerning exactly billions of kunas for the processing industry that is going on every little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45988	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45989	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, I'm happy to announce a tender which is therefore, which should happen today, no later than tomorrow, but I believe it will be today. So it's over 150 million euros, i.e. a billion and 150 million kunas of funds through a mechanism called REACT-EU, so that's what it is, I would say an EU instrument that wants to help overcome this Covid-19-pandemic crisis, as well as create a more resilient economy for the future and all through some kind of, I would say, the green digital transition process because these are processes that will happen, not only with us but throughout the EU and the whole world. Therefore, great satisfaction, entrepreneurs have long asked, this will be a competition that is indeed a great opportunity for many of them with its own scope. So I invite them to report to as large a number as possible and to start realising their projects that, I'm sure, there's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45990	The esteemed representative of the Vukovac has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45991	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, according to your Report, from the accession of the EU until 2019, Croatia paid 20 billion kuna to the EU budget and received only 35 billion from the Union budget. This means that the ratio of the funds paid and received is only 1.75 kuna for the kuna paid. Is it possible that the government is satisfied with this ratio? In the last year of implementation only 25.74% of all European Structural and Investment Funds were paid in 2020. If we managed to use only about 25% of the resources available in the 7 years of the programming period, what is your positive based on? Can we even significantly increase these amounts over the next three years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45992	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45993	Thank you very much for asking. I'm not sure if you looked at the good report. So this is the report of the first reporting period, so we are currently, the relationship between the paid ones, so when we speak at the end of 2020, this is shown in Report No. 4. The ratio is 37.97%, so almost 38 billion kuna plus, so the funds paid out of the EU budget compared to which the Republic of Croatia has invested in the European budget, so I would like you to check that. And as for that, of course, the relationship immediately changes these indicators that you have said, therefore, and it is multiple in favour of therefore and membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, and of course also benefits from all these European Structural and Investment Funds. And this, therefore, this growth and bargaining, or pardon, will no longer be agreed but payments towards users and according to the verification of funds continues so that I am sure that we will make full use of all the resources available.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45994	The next replica of the respected representative of Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45995	Your Honor, Secretary of State. You talked about how much money was agreed, but what is crucial is how much money was actually paid, how much money came into the Croatian economy. We know it's less than half, so I'd like to ask you, we certainly can't, for now, be satisfied. So, from 2014 to 2020, we know that N+3 can still be used for 3 years, are there any estimates of how much will be paid by 2023, how much will be paid, how much money will come in the percentage part of that money that was scheduled from 2014 to 2020?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45996	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45997	Thank you very much. Yes, as I said earlier, Your Honor, the percentages are what they are, they were significantly smaller in previous periods, so because of the dynamics and therefore, I would say, the percentage growth that is seen from every reporting period towards the end of the perspective, I am convinced and I will repeat it here, so I am convinced that we will fully use the last euro, so that we have received as an allocation as a state, as a Republic. So in my opinion, in my own court, I'm very optimistic about this, and I'm sure we'll do it. This growth is happening, therefore unquestionably, so it is already happening in 2021 because the current figures are still something better than they were with the end of 2020, and since thousands of projects are currently being implemented throughout the Republic of Croatia, I am pretty sure that all of them, most of them, will be successful and completed and thus make full use of the allotments we have received.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45998	Replica of Honored Representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u45999	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So as you noted, Croatia has significantly raised the level of use of EU funds, which is very important. According to the CNB Report, Croatia is making an surplus on the current and capital account of the balance of payments, and what is a significant contribution to the use of these EU funds because we must point out that these funds are for raising investment activity, and that is precisely what Croatia is recognised for investing and allowing small and medium-sized entrepreneurs much more, here, to raise this competitiveness, in relation to other countries and thereby significantly invests in the economy and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46000	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46001	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, there is a very wide range of investment that happens through the European Structural Investment Funds, so it's not just our entrepreneurs who were really in focus and in this perspective, so 2014-2020, and it's also going to be in the perspective of 2021-2027, that's, of course, projects concerning water-communal infrastructure, these are projects concerning transport, these are projects concerning cultural and natural heritage and many projects concerning local and regional self-government, meaning municipalities, cities and counties. So, I think that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, throughout the Republic of Croatia, can testify because a number of cranes, cranes and working machines have really been saying for years, work regardless of whether these challenging situations happen with this pandemic or not, and so it will be in the future and I say, since we are already much more experienced, I believe that it will be only better in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46002	Replica of Honored Representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46003	Thank you. First of all, I would very much like to agree and agree here, and I ask you, that customs cannot derivate the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament which the government commits to submitting six-monthly reports, so the conclusion did not go in the direction that the data at the level of the midterm is presented in a report that goes every 3 years, but that they are submitted every 6 months. However, my second question, I hope we agree that for the absorption of funds, it is crucial that our users be informed in time of the information about the competitions. So in that sense, how do you view the practice of government officials going to paid, seminars that are charged by consultants with end-user information? Zvonimir Savic is now on one of these, so that our users can access information, so civil servants and officials are involved in the sale of information on the availability of EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46004	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46005	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So it was really not my intention to avoid presenting these reports here in the Croatian Parliament, I did it two years ago and four years ago, so I'm basically a regular reporter or reporter here. Last year, at the beginning, I'm sorry, in 2019, we had preparations for the Croatian presidency, so there was a pandemic, there was a problem, and I'm telling you now and I guarantee that no more delays will happen, so that's what I promise here now, so now to you. And as for the participation of civil servants and officials, I really don't know, so for today's participation, so... So, I don't know about that, I know that I don't personally do it, and it's not my practice, so I can't comment on someone else's participation in that event. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Please, not out of place, right?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46006	Replica of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46007	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, in your presentation you listed all the operational programmes, spoke about the available billions of euros that financed a number of projects. As I come from Sibenik-Knin County, I am very pleased, among other things, that European funds have financed the construction of numerous kindergartens. Unfortunately, my Vodice, given that we have over 5,000 residents, we couldn't run for any of these funds, so we had to build a kindergarten with our resources, so here these days there's a lot of talk and opposition calling the city administration and us as a party, so I'd ask you to say once again if we could and how it came to this I'd say, a failure that only cities over 5,000 residents can't finance such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46008	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46009	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, I will now say, so first of all, these are projects that come from the rural development programme, so who in some way recognized the need to exclude them, I would say so, projects of local communities, whose central settlements are larger than 5000 inhabitants, it is unfortunately so negotiated, so when the Republic of Croatia has negotiated with the European Commission about the financial period of 2014-2020 and definitely means that the question is then that team, or the one who has therefore participated in these negotiations, what we are going to try to find is definitely an optimal approach, so the units that have this problem, however, although they are in the rural area, still have the opportunity to apply to such competitions and that the number of kindergartens in the Republic, has grown significantly, so that there are many new built and restored ones, it definitely stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46010	The replica of the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, thank you for one piece of information that you have shared today and that disproves a huge number of your representatives who very often here when this topic is on the table. They're calling an ex-government who's not gonna be a devil six years ago. So she's still guilty of their incompetence. So you said that money from the 2007-2013 perspective was used 91%, so 1.16 billion from 1.27 billion euros. Of course, we won't brag about it, it was less money, much less money than it is now. However, you must admit, and you have answered the question wrongly here by one of the representatives, so at the moment Croatia is the last on the list of paid funds from EU funds. This morning I watched, so the situation this morning, the last one, behind us is the only Netherlands that isn't a cohesion country, it has little money, it doesn't matter in that story. Therefore, from cohesion countries, we are still the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46012	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46013	Dear Representative, as regards the financial perspective of 2007-2013, so as I was saying earlier, it's about the funds that you said were significantly smaller, that it's almost 10 times smaller than it is now in this perspective of 2014-2020, and it was definitely so that I would say, through more Governments, because it started in 2007, the financial perspective, then we were also a country that was in pre-accession negotiations and it wasn't easy, but the fact is that, that we didn't here, you said so fully used an allotment of 100%. And I can only express my regret about it, but so who to blame now is illusory, so it's past time. As far as this list of successes is concerned, I said we were in the golden middle. When we look at all segments, I definitely think so, and the numbers that are on the table are just better for you right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46014	Replica of Honored Representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to know how much in the reporting period have you invested funds to strengthen administrative capacity in public law bodies to withdraw funds from EU funds because it is now evident that consulting firms are normally engaged in this job, and sometimes their competences are very questionable and actually relying on the expertise of these public authorities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46016	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46017	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. I cannot now tell you an exact number or amount that has been invested in strengthening all administrative capacities. What we certainly know is that, to work continuously at their education, empowering their competences and expertise. That people are, of course, after spending several years of work in their own ministries or intermediate bodies 1 and 2 levels, that they are really competent and more quality then. Of course, in certain situations when there is a certain need for external experts to be used. About their quality or competences, it's really hard for me right now to say anything except that we believe that they really contribute to their, their knowledge and competences in, for what they're engaged in, but to work continuously to strengthen all capacities, to empowerment, to simplify procedures and all other complications it's definitely true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46018	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yes, the Honorable President of the EU Committee on Regional Development and Funds, Marko Pavić. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46019	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Secretary of State today these reports have been discussed by the Committee on Regional Development and European Funds in the form of a parent body. They were accepted with 7 votes in favour and one abstention, and it was just visible from the debate of all participants that continued growth in the contract and also paid by funds where we are now at 116% of the contract and slightly more than 51% of the funds paid. It was also an interest for a future period of EUR 24 and a half billion where we concluded that the thematic programming session would also be held when the multiannual financial framework or working groups were ready. Accordingly, the board supported all four sub-reports with seven votes and one abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46020	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate on this point and will be the first to be the Club of Representatives of the Most, and time will be shared by the respected representative Selak Rasdic and Representative Bulj. Here you are, the esteemed representative Selak Rasdic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46021	My colleagues and colleagues have therefore already articulated the first problem instead of mandatory six-month reports we have received a two-year report that is cynicalally divided into four chapters and six-month periods, respectively. It doesn't matter, and it doesn't matter when we get reports because if we received a six-month report, we could in time warn about some irregularities and focus on key things that would then not be repeated in the next period because they are already listed here as problematic. But that didn't happen. There's no one cycle skipped three cycles and we've got all four cycles together. The answer to this is that it is not an unusual practice first, and b) from the attached we can assume that there is no sanction for such treatment. How is it possible that there are no sanctions in the rule of law for violating the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament? I'll say it again. Someone needs to answer for this. In spite of this, however, by passing through these 4 reports, we can find some trends, or to the greatest extent possible, regarding chapters that are crucial, these are lessons learned, we find stagnation. So, which means the section of the lesson learned in which the determination of irregularities is repeated if we do not see that these lessons are implemented in practice in the next half-year period. Very specifically, one of the key problems in the absorption of EU funds above 80% arises problems with the public procurement system. This is what we find in the first report for the first half of 2019. The same problem is more than 80% persisting at the end of this report. So, what did he learn in particular? When we will finally regulate the public procurement system in such a way that it does not make a mistake to the extent that it is the majority of the errors affecting the absorption of EU funds. What is tragic is that these are partly errors concerning different benefits, but they are also partly errors concerning not knowing how to properly print public procurement, so that some often and banal errors can challenge public procurement. When I talk about public procurement under EU funds, it is important to point out once again that we are paying the penalty for errors in the public procurement system from the state budget. This is crucial if we bear in mind the fact that we are precisely on the verge of absorbing the largest possible funds from the EU because of the next period within the recovery and resilience mechanism that should allow us to address the consequences of the crown crisis and the consequences of the earthquake in Croatia. If this continues, we can come to a situation where we will pay a large number of funds from the state budget for someone's mistakes instead of withdrawing them from the EU. One of the errors listed here is too much relying on the external assistance of consultants with minimal development of internal capacities. So others need to tell us what to do while we ourselves are not educated enough. What is very important and what is mentioned here, and perhaps it is not clear to the citizens because we see a big cacophony when we talk about how much the funds have really withdrawn from the EU and we keep hearing that we are here last in Europe by some criteria, while others say it is not so bad. So there's a huge difference between what is contracted and what is eventually derived from end-users. For example, for the period 2014-2020, 1.84 billion euros were agreed, and payments made to end-users are one billion euros, almost 50% less, that is the difference. So it's not a question of how much it's agreed, it can be tempting numbers than how many end-users got, and then managed to use it. Disclosure of irregularities, what we do most and need to be concerned about when we talk about EU funds as we have and whether we have discovered irregularities in their attraction. Here we can see at the beginning of the first reporting period that the largest number of irregularities reported has been detected during external audits, and only then some others. Why don't we have a good internal control system and that's the key question? Namely, what is Croatia's main problem when we talk about how to attract funds from the EU and their control? The system we own is not in charge of controlling all public procurement procedures and other tendering phases, but only coordination. So, in particular, we need a system that can control, not just coordinate the action so that we do not come into a situation where these key frauds instead of our internal control systems reveal Olaf and other EU bodies. Finally, in order to be able to talk at all about what happens at the level of attracting funds, we should know how many people are even processed or how many proceedings are under way for the article. 258. Penal Code for Subsidization. But unfortunately, we have not received this information and remains in the air to see whether this law is also a dead letter on paper or if there is anyone who has been punished so far for the subsidisation fraud in the situation in which we have witnessed numerous affairs in the media and in the Croatian public, whether anyone has received an epilogue in court or whether it is at least ongoing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46022	The Honorable Representative Bulj will continue on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46023	Thank you very much. Croatia seems to have signed the most, agreed on EU funds, and at least withdrew. We come before the end of this financial period when it is necessary to draw the line and say that Croatia was not successful after withdrawing funds from the EU and that is the fact that we should talk about. I can tell for my county once again, yesterday there was also some press presentation of infrastructure projects in Split-Dalmatia County where the mayor said so many false things, if I don't tell lies, that they haven't been remembered since the beginning of this new era. It speaks of 12.8 billion kuna projects, 6.8 agreed billion projects in the Split-Dalmatia County, but I will talk about key projects that are important, which should live in this area in order to survive people at all because obviously from Zagreb you don't see enough. We have a project of agglomeration Sinj, you are all familiar with it and if the public procurement was carried out as the responsibility was of course local self-government, especially local water pipeline, but the Croatian government also eats Croatian water and if this project collapses which is now at the end and public procurement was carried out, estimated 150 million kunas in some local self-governments you are from other agglomerations the state has co-financed this amount of misjudged in some do not want whatever it is about protecting the river Cetina. Which is why this criterion, which is why you don't want those mistakes that are from local self-government, local plumbing to state. A little while ago, my colleague Bacic here mentioned that the counties were, the mayor was successful, and they were successful. So what's the mayor's touchpoint with the agglomerations besides coming to the signatures to just advertise? Why not jump into this problem where the agglomeration of Sinj is in trouble but silence? I would like to point out once again that Croatia is at the bottom of withdrawing funds from the EU and these numbers you are pounding now mainly when we have new EU funds in the future that we need to think that these funds are being used on all issues from the EU funds, that there are a lot of fraud, a lot of false promises, mainly in this pre-election time. And not to mention the example of waste management where we have an example of Lečevica, the Waste Management Centre has been thrown out of 30 million kuna and there is still a growing pile where these harmful projects of the Waste Management Centre will lead to chaos, for example in Dalmatia, will certainly be worse than in Italy once in the case of waste management where this waste management crisis will be, there will be nowhere to be put down, where we will pay a million, I don't know, billions of penals, and the ministry is silent, the Croatian government does not solve the key problems of our citizens. Croatia is at the bottom of the withdrawal of European funds during that period, and that is the fact that you have agreed to visit the tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46024	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Green-Left bloc, and the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. We've already said here today that, and they've raised my colleagues and colleagues, which is the point of having me now in April 2021. We are discussing the 2019 reports. where HS concludes that these reports need to be discussed in regular 6-month cycles. You have here, Mr. Secretary of State, with a serious expression of face, tried to argue that some of your customs or some circumstances were derivating the conclusion of this body, the highest representative body of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You can be ashamed of that. You can be ashamed of that. This assembly is no joke for executive power, nor for the other scarf of its officials. This is among other things the dirty work you've done for your minister who, if she wants to be set up in such a way, then let her muster up her courage and let this payphone come herself. It's a shame. This assembly has chosen the executive authority as it is, so may Mrs. The minister comes to us to dereg his role alone if she dares, if she dares, which I'd like to see. We discuss things that were relevant 2 years ago, but well, I'll look back at what's closest to us. First of all, another question has been raised today, and that is why we are so unsuccessful, why are we at the bottom of the EU after withdrawing funds? It's not just a matter of withdrawing funds. The thing is that citizens and citizens of this country don't see all the money we're supposed to be getting and who are reportedly spilling over on their well-being. So the answers to this question are contained deep buried under the administrative new speech in these reports and they tell us that Croatia, that the main problem in Croatia, there are many, I will talk about them a little later, but that one of the main problems is that we simply do not have the capacity to absorb these funds. Not because citizens and citizens do not report projects but because the system does not have the capacity to administer it, and in some cases there is no political will, there is no political will to call a tender, approve and deliver funds within reasonable time. I say, deep below the floscule in this report are contained and buried recommendations from the mid-term evaluation of the Partnership Agreement which actually tell us about the state of the system, that there are not enough competent people, that there is not enough coordination between the body, that there is not enough inclusion of those whose European funds are most relevant to both the preparation processes and the processes of monitoring the implementation, that the procedure is complicated and that there is no link between what is being financed and what these funding needs to be achieved with such an ominous setting-up of so-called. targeted values and without thinking about the needs of the most underdeveloped areas and the most vulnerable citizens. So let's do a little translation. Let us say one recommendation, develop a system of monitoring and reporting of the progress of indicators directly linked to the achievement of the thematic objectives of the Partnership and Europe 2020 Agreement. This translation means that this monitoring and reporting system that is there with this purpose is not directly linked to the achievement of the objectives. Then we have another, develop new systems to determine the initial and target values and indicators, and methodology to calculate the target values of indicators for the next programming period. In translation, the system of determining the initial and target values in the current period is simply disproved. Let us continue, to publish targeted calls for specific areas or areas of certain level of development, and to interest potential applicants. In translation, the most underdeveloped for funding competes with the most developed. This is also great, to include representatives of integrated territorial investment, so cities, ITU cities in programming specific objectives and ITU mechanisms for the future programming period. You know what that means? This means that those to whom the funds are actually not involved in defining their own needs at all. Then how can they possibly have anything to do with those funds? Another, extend the ITU programme to new cities that are proposed by choosing poverty. In other words, the poorest areas remain unaffected by programmes and do not have access to funds. Bravo. Bravo. That's it. That's it. That's one example for you. In the context of poverty reduction, focus on particularly vulnerable groups, older people, pensioners and unemployed. Therefore, you do not use European funds at all, or Croatia does not use them to reduce the poverty of the most vulnerable groups, and we hear about this thank God very much all the time, but it is in these reports. That's not a lie. It's not a question of interpretation, these are facts that you've tried to conceal under the administrative new speech. The inclusion of an additional number of representatives of the civil, real and scientific sector in the implementation and monitoring of the Partnership and Operational Programmes Agreements. It means that you in the tracking bodies don't have enough people at all. And then let's go get it over with maybe. We're going to that number that's really relevant here. The total allocation was 10 billion and 730m euros. In total, 3 billion and 310 million euros were certified, or slightly below 31% of the allocations. There, that's your measure. It's a real measure of our absorption capacity. And the reasons why it's like that are the ones I just exposed. So there's no political will, there's no people, there's no connection to end-users, so this is a very obvious story. Now, if someone needs an answer to the question of why we're at the bottom, he's content deep below these flossules in these reports that come late because they care absolutely, they justify themselves and then they have super this new speech, here I think I could really read about it very much but I don't really want to give any more space to this, this is one shame, this is one shame. Well, hello to you, Mr. Secretary of State, to the misery of love that this is going to be, these reports that I am quite honest with you, a dog with butter would not eat, which in another country, if the situation were like this, in which ministers and ministers and their officials and officials would resign if their representative body were to be sent this much delay. Once again, shame may be upon you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46026	The next team of MPs is that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46027	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Here, with pride on behalf of the HDZ Club, I can support these reports and show that we are successful in withdrawing European funds, that we are successful in Brussels in providing new funds of 24.5 billion euros. Just because Mr. Glavasevic says these words on this report, it just means that it's not a new word, that it's a language of the profession and that it's not a professional one, but I'm sorry, such a language is written in such reports. And I'm going to try to bring them closer to our citizens here and explain through certain initiatives, through individual projects, and look back on the challenges we've had during this financial period. When we talk about 10.7 billion euros, so far we've arranged 116%, so we've set up 12.5 billion. Why are we going higher? That we are sure that we will not lose any euro, either for the sake of corrections, or for cleaning the budget. So far, we have not lost a single euro. Every year you have a rule called the so-called. M+3 where you have to pay a certain part of the funds or verify it, we have never broken that rule once. So for now, we're not going to lose any euro cents. In order to be able to pay, it is necessary to negotiate. 2016 agreement 6%, payment 1%. 2017 when we took over the government, payment i.e. 9% contract, 3% payout. Now we're at 116%, 5.5 billion, 51%, and 42% confirmed. Therefore, here we are very successful and what is very important, that when we look at the stability of the budget, 38 billion kuna we have received more from the European budget than we have returned, than we have paid membership fees, 38 billion kuna has entered the Croatian budget extra. What the reports clearly show is that until June 2019. 70% of the contract, until December 2019. 83%, by June 30th 95%, by December 30th 111% of the contract, we are now at 116. In other words, we won't lose any euro cents. And if it weren't just tough figures, to try to bring the citizens closer and remove these arguments of opposition that citizens don't see it because European funds really change Croatia, Croatia is a big site, European funds change and employ. It is precisely for the sake of European funds, and if you see in this report that priority employment has just been much more used, we have provided 8 billion kuna for employment in the last 4 years. The Youth Guarantee for e-mechanism of young people has provided measures so that the youth unemployment rate with 50% in 2013 has fallen to something below 20%. Young people sometimes, we know in the SDP era, from college to work, to SOR, and then on the stock market, back, without any further knowledge, 70% of active employment policy measures before this government, were spent on SOR in the public sector, 70%. Today, by redefining these measures, by investing EU funds, young people can receive up to 130 000 kn for the launch of their EU-funded job, so that no one sees these funds. Young people who started up seeing these funds. The EU funds provide better healthcare for 1.7 billion kunas in healthcare, each 50 million kuna for each day's hospital. I do not have Mr Bulj here, but I believe that the entire Imotska and Cetinska region of the daily hospital in Zagvozd is highly appreciated and that this has greatly increased the quality, access to health services for our citizens throughout the Republic of Croatia, and so on in all parts of Croatia, and from Osijek where we have 2 billion kuna for KBC Osijek, daily hospitals and new departments, recently signed contracts from EU funds for helicopter services in Dubrovnik. Therefore, these are all indicators that European funds provide better health to our citizens. European funds connect Croatia. The Pelješki bridge will remain a permanent monument to this financial envelope, Split Airport, Dubrovnik Airport, the Renaissance of what Minister Butkovic says, the Renaissance of port development. And it is not true that Minister Tramišak is not in the assembly, she is with us every week, defending all projects, defending and European funds, and we are proud of them. So all these arguments, and best these projects say the opposition here is wrong. European funds support entrepreneurship. Except for the self-employment that we have said today is the biggest startup scene driver in Croatia, competence centres, billions of kunas for research and development, IRI 2, direct support for the entrepreneurial zone are a permanent money provider for entrepreneurs. It is precisely the Croatian initiative during the Presidency that allows maximum flexibility of European funds where we have available all the funds for entrepreneurs and medical equipment. European funds develop our science, provide better student standards. 72 million EUR in Croatia's history project at Ruđer Bošković OZIP, I already said a billion kuna for research and development of IRI 2. Students' homes, everyone, all universities have further strengthened their capacity for student homes. I am particularly pleased for a student home in Zadar which I set up a cornerstone a year ago, today a building built, a student home in Osijek that will be the largest student home, an individual pavilion in Croatia. We thus provide our students with better conditions of study, and yet again these arguments that it does not stand are absolutely missed. European funds also provide balanced regional development. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem 18 billion kuna, 10 thousand projects in Slavonia. The project, which will be set up by Dalmatia Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar and Banovina, will be specially announced in a separate project. ITU cities, there is no Mr Glavasevic, so of course it is recommended that ITU cities participate in programming future ITU cities and this is happening. All these recommendations he was reading today are being implemented, European funds ensure the social integration of our citizens, older citizens, and programmes active in retirement target our older citizens. Different services we provide, personal assistants, could never so much provide people with disabilities with personal assistants, assistants in continuing that it is not EU funds. We also help young people and women, project Zaželi, 6,000 women employees, 30,000 older users. European funds and provide better services to our citizens than available drinking water, agglomeration, a wide explanation of the Internet throughout Croatia, 200 new kindergartens and means of extended kindergarten work in Croatia, so if someone claims that our citizens do not feel then say they may be virtual kindergartens. Safe houses, social infrastructure, numerous support and direct to our farmers who have experienced all these billions. Can you do better? Yeah, this is our first envelope. We need to strengthen our capacities, so some of this will also be in the future institutional framework law. It is not true what Mrs Selak Rasdic is saying, the European Court of Auditors in all 38% of the findings of the European Court of Auditors are public procurement in all countries, 38%. Four, Mr Bulj and Selak Rasdic do not understand the way of the audit, there is ARPA, there is a revision of DG REGIO, DG EMPL, there is a European Court of Auditors and only then are applications for OLAF. So, overall, Croatia is successful in using European funds, and we will be even more successful when the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic have secured EUR 24 and a half billion for a future period. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46028	Thank you. A representative of the story has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46029	Article 238, insulting fellow MPs with the fact that a colleague has repeatedly offended a representative, but they can only cause damage to the Rules of Procedure once. A colleague mentioned the past SDP government, yes, but the SDP was briefly in power from Croatia's entry into the EU until it came down from power, but at that time it was much done as we heard today. You're instructions how much work is done, how the funds are withdrawn, everything's great, everything's great. In the last 5 years since this government, Croatia has lost 200,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46030	Thank you very much, colleague Proverbs, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you know it, but a replica, so you get a warning. Please don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, I beg you nicely. Representative Pavić, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46031	I insist, I insist, because the public must know, Article 238, my colleague insulted me, especially when the SDP government lost a billion euros. So in the current.../incomprehensible/... this report we now have, 10.7, we could have had 11.7 billion if you had reacted and been proactive in Brussels and... in an article defining that countries that had had a crisis had entered before 2013 that they could. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you lost a billion euros in these reports and then you have something to object to this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46032	Thank you. And it was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. Comrade Story, do you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure or not? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46033	Art. 238th you... You keep some data, but what Croatia has lost since your government, 200 thousand inhabitants we have less in the last 5 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46034	Thank you. And it was a replica, so you get a second warning from this one, I ask you not to abuse any further because you know what's wrong with the third warning, is it, follows you. The next club of representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46035	... Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] In the Department of Homeland Movement Club, we were asked why the 2019 Report did not come to the debate in Parliament during 2020. Today we should have discussed what happened in the second part of the previous year. I have to look back on the answer I've received to my replica. So, I haven't read any wrong reports, but I deliberately analyzed the amounts obtained by 2019 and asked if you were satisfied with the realized, or realised only 35 billion in that period. I am also concerned about the 2020 period, but if the report had been submitted on time, surely the representatives would not have been this disdained. How much quality discussion can we expect in the first place when the report is submitted on a quarterly basis for two years. Why is that? So we can only conclude that the applicant does not respond to a wide discussion under the watchful eye of clarity. Likewise, I believe that the Minister of Regional Development, as well as the Minister of Agriculture, was supposed to be here today. Vukkovic could answer important questions regarding its portfolio, specifically the implementation of an extremely important Rural Reason Programme. So it encourages our fact that about 70% of all operational programmes are agreed by the end of the programming period, but, of course, many questions are raised. First of all, why have the implementing bodies failed to contract more than 90% of the resources available by the end of the programming period? Does this mean that the Republic of Croatia will lose the remaining 30% of allotment? When we add that in this 70% and 20% share of the Republic of Croatia, does this mean that we have really agreed to use only 50% of the funds available to us during this programming period? In particular, it concerns the fact that only about 20% of the funds were paid in the same period compared to 70% of the contracted ones. Are we going to be able to actually pay off in the next three years if we haven't been able to even contract more than 70%? This means that the real usability of the European Structural and Investment Funds will indeed be around 50%. Does this mean that this administration is only about 50% of the resources available to it? Take, for example, just one of the operational programs and see how we stand here. So the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, Croatia totalled 8.61 billion euros. Of which, the EU is 6.83 billion euros, so 80%, the Croatian stake is 20%. By the end of the reporting period, it has been agreed, not really paid and withdrawn from the EU budget, only 57% and 4.94 billion euros respectively, which supports the claim that we will probably eventually be able to use only about 50% of the real resources available to us. But in addition to the data showing that this administration is able to barely spend half the resources available, let us take a look at how it invests in the development of Croatia. So there's an even bigger problem with regional or geographical representation. Unrelated to this Report, I will only provide information that is publicly available and is not part of this Report, but I refer to them as comparison, which concerns the height of GDP in the Republic of Croatia. So only the City of Zagreb and the 3 Adriatic counties have a higher GDP rate than the Croatian average. In other words, this means that Croatia is a completely destroyed and devastated country where there is no more significant industry or agricultural production and that GDP is mainly generated from tourism and non-production activities in the capital, so that Zagreb has as much as 74.8% more GDP than the average of the Republic of Croatia. Amazing but true data, the Istrian County has 26.3% higher GDP than the Croatian average, the Primorje-Gorski County has 19.7% higher GDP than the average of the Republic of Croatia, the Dubrovnik-Neretva County only 0.8% higher GDP than the average. All other Croatia is below national average, which, of course, is not surprising when the standard of living in the capital alone is 75% higher than the Croatian average. This testifies to the ultimate centralisation of Croatia or other words, the dying of Croatia, which turns out to be only in the capital and we know that, mainly in the public sector and that only a few added values are created from tourism, in some, but not in all coastal counties. It's really a concept of development that no.../incomprehensible/... undeveloped banana state in the world would be ashamed of. And now that we already have such an unequal reverse model of development as typical for all undeveloped and corrupt third-world countries, where most income is generated from tourism, not from science and industry or agriculture, and investment is made only in the capital where corrupt and incompetent political elites live, let us take a look at the example of the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion in which Croatia invests European Structural and Investment Funds in its development. Is the European Structural and Investment Funds in this case of the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion trying to balance such unequal development? Is he trying to help those who stayed below average? If we are not already promoting uniform development by national means, are we, at least, trying to help those who are lagging behind in the development by means of European Structural and Investment Funds? Already chart 1 on page 12 reveals that the first three places by allocation of operational programme competitiveness and cohesion take, of course, the city of Zagreb with 29.6%, Dubrovnik-Neretva County with 10.37% and the Primorje-Gorski County with 10.09% or a total of 50% of the Operational Programme competitiveness and cohesion was invested in Zagreb and two counties that already have higher GDP than the Croatian average. I add that, for example, Sisak-Moslavina County has lost more than 40,000 inhabitants in the past 10 years, and in Slavonia, this figure is twice as large. Therefore, half of the operational programme's funds are invested in the richest regions of which GDP is above the average of the Republic of Croatia. This clearly shows that the ESIF funds are being used by supporting the most developed regions, especially Zagreb. It is not surprising, therefore, that Croatian citizens are desperate, that Croatia is dying because this administration not only invests national resources in nothing but the capital and only a few Adriatic counties where only tourist activities take place, but it continues the same policy with the European Structural and Investment Funds. The message of my presentation is that Croatia cannot live only on tourism and investment in the public sector, but that an urgent shift must be made towards investment in the private sector, industry, agriculture and science and that the funds must be decentralised in order to develop the whole of Croatia evenly, not just Zagreb and two to three coastal counties. We have also witnessed leaks of information about how the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture and the paying agency in agriculture assign projects to their OPGs and the companies with which they are linked, to blackmail users to hire certain consulting companies, to all projects of some consulting companies go without a problem, to projects for which specific banks have been granted credits or guarantees again without problems, so perhaps it is time to mention and an equident example of conflict of interest in which, for all but the competent institutions, the former agriculture minister used his position and wrote for himself a rule on the basis he provided for his OPG million amounts, etc., etc. When such data comes out, the question arises whether the EU will once seek the return of all funds for which irregularities or fraud have been identified. So the examples of Romania and Bulgaria's fraud will actually fall into another plan because I remind you that preliminary doubts that such things in the Republic of Croatia could happen, embedded in EU regulations, for example. Regulation 1306/2013 on the common agricultural policy as they contain specific articles of enhanced controls only for Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46036	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Grcic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46037	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] So, today we're talking about 4 reports that were late with their arrival here at the Parliament, but that's why I'm going to go one step further and I'm going to talk about 5th or at least half of the 5th report, which means by the end of March, and here's a little bit this April 20th and 21st of April 2021, which is why Croatia is currently using 49% of the total funds. So, in 7 years and 4 not full months, 49% of the money was paid out of 10.7 billion, we agreed more than 100%, yes, that's good, that's good, but ultimately it counts what was paid, which came to the Croatian budget, which came to Croatia, which finally came to users at all levels, from our shareholders, units of local self-government, associations, scientific institutions and all those involved in using these funds, it's a real measure. Therefore, even when we talk about 24 billion euros for the next 7 and 10 years, according to rule M+3, then first of all we must always keep in mind, and how much money will really come to Croatia and how much it will be used and what we need to do in Croatia to make it happen. That's the key questions. We can argue here whether it's a contract or a payout, but we'll always end up on this second, it's important how much money came to Croatia, not an accounting category, as reserved somewhere in Brussels. So we have people left, especially for you ruling people, we have only a little over 2.5 years left to use more than 50% of the funds that have not been used. Whether a part of that money will be used, of course yes, I will be pleased, what the secretary of state has just commented, if you end up at that 91%, as far as we have ended the financial perspective of 7-13th, 2007-2013, means if you succeed in bringing 91% really to Croatia I will congratulate you, but now the perspective is such that it does not seem realistic and we must be aware. I say, we can argue, we are ultimately not important, the people involved in this process and the institutions that must bring this money literally to Croatia. I did that job for four years. And I know how difficult and challenging he is. I remind you, in the HDZ government or governments in the last 4 years. Four ministers changed in that position. So why am I asking all of us here, why? Is it because they were successful? According to the public, we're successful, and we're changing ministers who are on tape, 4 years old. Four ministers, so I guess they were responsible for something and that's why they had to go. We'll see what Mrs. Devereaux can do. Tramišak do, she seems very serious, valuable, self-secret, and I hope she does the job. And I wish her that, I wish her for all of us, for Croatia, for the sake of Croatian people. We want every EUR to come to Croatia, not the one we are talking about today, but every EUR 24 billion that Croatia will be talking about in the next 7 and 10 years, respectively. have it at your disposal. However, if we do this as we do now, it doesn't seem at all real at all. Look, it's not just about pulling the money. What's waiting for us right now? So here is counterpart Pavić and many in this section of the assembly usually say, and even Prime Minister Plenkovic says in 2015 we found only 9% of the funds contracted. ... Just a minute, just a second. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm asking you, and how many of you from the new financial perspective of 2021-2027 at this point in time have you agreed? Zero. Zero. Why? Because you don't want to admit as I confess because I'm a responsible man that this year will remain zero by the end of the year. And why people? Well, because it's the technology of the job. Mr. Pavić knows it well, but he's manipulating it. There are no deals in this first year, there is not yet a document called "partner's Agreement" and several operational programmes in Brussels. We did it on 31.12.2013, the pandan this year was 2014 and in 2014 it was approved by the Commission only at the end of the year, and you still didn't send a draft to the European Commission in this panda 2021, so what can we expect? What can we expect? That's what I'm talking about. So, you're late for everything. So if you're this late in 2022, you're not gonna make any of this a new financial perspective. It's the first problem that needs to be repeated and pressured by the government to work on it. The second thing, you're going to have a very demanding job because you're going to have to pull the economic recovery and resilience program in parallel, so those 6.5 billion should be negotiated in parallel by the end of 2022. 70% until the end of '23. 30% more. So imagine what a big deal it is, so I wish you every happiness, every happiness I wish you truly without any conversion here, any conversion. And then that money still needs to be used by the end of 2026, to use it to come to Croatia, as came these incomplete 5 billion euros in 7.5. So let's be realistic and see things for who they really are. And then with all that, you have a situation that 51% of the funds are from the perspective of '14-20. Unused and should be done parallelly in the next 2.5.g. But here's what I don't want to convince you at all, I'll just tell you what's even worse. So when you look at these 49% of the funds by funds, and European funds are made up of individual funds. The first is the Cohesion Fund, intended for infrastructure. The use is only 36% today, the EU average is 60%. The Regional Development Fund is 38% in Croatia, only 38% and the EU average is 56%. One Ireland is over 75% at the moment. They're numbers that show everything. The EESC, the social fund at this point is only 36%, 1/3 is used. At the same time, the EU average is 56%. What brings us to this 49%? Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development. And why is that? Because it is the very government that you often mention in the negotiations on the rural development programme that managed to impose one topic, which is that as a new EU member, part of the funds from that fund is paid directly as a helicopter mani to farmers, and that is why payments go faster. Here is the secretary of state who is deeply aware of it because he knows it, 65% is paid for it so far, the EU average is 70%. So it's the only place we went high because it's an op we go, every month or not, but how much money this time a year is given directly direct payments with what is paid to farmers from the funds on the reach of the Ministry of Agriculture and what also includes those guarantees in agriculture. Now, if that's the case, then unfortunately the situation, especially I say, in infrastructure, especially Major infrastructure is what we do, which may be the biggest challenge of the past two years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46038	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46039	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. So I think that HS as a parliament should be a place where we don't speak to each other in our beards, but we address each other, so first of all, I will thank my colleagues, Branko Grcic, we rarely see him in the Parliament, and he rarely participates in the debate over this speaker, but every word, so now in this particular subject and every quoted statistical data of gold is worth it. Finally, he mentioned something about incentives for agriculture and so on. They know the helicopter money. Well, I really think it's exactly the kind of money that falls out of the sky somewhere, it's given to various agricultural producers, but it seems like it's not going to fall on fertile soil. In many of our regions, and especially, for example, in Slavonia, it is difficult to say that despite all the investments, despite all the funds withdrawn from the EU funds, we managed to preserve the region as the agricultural area it once was. So somewhere, that helicopter money that falls from the sky from the EU funds is going back or into some other black party funds. He's not in the farm. I regret that in addition to the perfect processing of statistics that can be associated with this report, Mr Branko Grčić, and I believe he knows, he did not tell us how much agricultural production in percentages fell from the period when the Croatian state was created, or right before the acquisition of independence, and that it is possible that the allocations in agriculture and withdrawal of funds from the EU funds are increasing, and agricultural production, and then the standard of our agricultural producers, is increasing. And then I would like to relate to something said by my colleague, Ruzica Vukovac, whom I otherwise greatly appreciate because of quality and well-structured discussions. However, this one on behalf of the Homeland Movement, I hope, in fact, that I have misunderstood her, a little upset me, as much as the amount of funds being withdrawn and invested in the city of Zagreb as the capital and as the center, and how little is invested in the regions or on the periphery. Why do I say that? It is a bit of a concern, by the fact that the representative and president of your political options are targeting the office of mayor of the city of Zagreb, and among the first, he boasted that he has submitted the lists for the 17 councils of the city districts. That is how you look at all the funds that have reportedly arrived in this city because I consider it, and deny me if I am wrong, that the city of Zagreb is one of the most abandoned, most destructive, functionally incompetent cities, the capitals, especially the capitals of the entire EU. The city of Zagreb suffers from the destruction of management throughout the decades and I really don't know what we have invested in the public infrastructure of the city of Zagreb, and today it works properly. The city of Zagreb is an example of carelessness, negligence, contempt. He despises his historical role, cultural role, and its administrative importance, and this is seen by its quantity, poor quantity, poor statistics on the amounts of funds withdrawn from the EU funds. And now I want to say something very specific about the metrics from these reports that are full of data, statistics, tables, even charts, but there's no content. On behalf of the Club of Representatives Marko Pavić said it was a report written in the language of the profession that he would bring closer to the citizens. At the moment he spoke in the assembly there were only six parliamentary deputies, and I believe that in front of the screens in the entire audience of the Republic of Croatia, there was no such thing as six people who wanted to bring what he wanted close to him, they could understand. Despite all the data on the billions withdrawn from the EU funds, our citizens benefit from their own benefits and the quality of their lives, they do not see and question where the problem is. I tried to find the answer on pages 67, 68, 69 and 70, and I don't have enough time, so I won't go any further than that. These pages speak of irregularities. The system established to protect the EU's financial interests is said to have 3 phases, i.e. the system is made up of bodies at EU level, bodies so-called. AFCOS networks, therefore, are bodies dealing with the prevention of irregularities, fraud, corruption or any other form of illegal activity and the Ministry of Finance's Ministry of Control, which we popularly call SSNIP. They are responsible for an effective reporting system so we boast that we have 2 systems, we have one electronic system for reporting irregularities and a registry of irregularities. This first electronic establishment of OLAF, however, does not report all identified irregularities, but only those which can be carried out under EU-level regulations and regulations, and this second one, the Registry of Irregularities, contains data on all reported suspicions and information on cases where irregularities have been identified and identified. It is said that, in the period 2008 to 2019, only 345 cases of irregularities were reported by OLAF, of which only 189 were closed. There's no way to say it, though. Therefore, these cases were approximately EUR 36.6 billion, of which 22 million were said to the European Commission and 61% of the total irregularities reported. 22 billion for which we weren't able to indicate what it meant. Whether these were cases of administrative irregularities that have been corrected, whether these are cases of corruption affairs that we have not established, whether these money has ended up in someone's private pockets that have never been returned to the EU budget, or whether they have been incorporated into those projects and programmes that have led us to withdraw these funds. And I'm asking you, how are we going to be able to vote on whether it's worth it or not, on the basis of a report drawn up like this? Fortunately, we may be able to help with the charts. One of them looks like this, referring to the 2019 irregularities. It is said that the financial amount amounts to around EUR 4.8 million and is fully certified. For me, the word certified does not answer those previously asked questions. What does that mean? Have we returned, have we determined what irregularities are involved and who are the name and last name of the person or company responsible for these irregularities. Many are said, though, that the largest number of irregularities are related to violations of public procurement rules. It is a pity that this report and what it says on page 69 could not be linked to a report which was on the agenda Friday submitted by the Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, so we would see where the basic problem of a dysfunctional state was, which no system of verification and control of the rules was able to establish properly. Because it says here that these public procurement irregularities refer to changing the contract on the basis of which public funds are given after the competition. It shall then specify the anti-legal or discriminatory selection criteria or the award criteria. Next application of discriminatory technical specifications and artificial separation of contracts on works, services or supplies. Then there is a lack of transparency or equal treatment during the assessment of offers. Then the prescription or application of the selection criteria which are not relevant for the subject of the procurement and are not the extent of the subject of the procurement. Then change the documentation during the evaluation. Then the change in the selection criteria after the tenders have already been opened which, of course, results in an incorrect acceptance of the bidder. Then non-verification of the grounds for exclusion from the procurement procedure. Then the absence of a publication calls for competition. Then the unfounded implementation of simple procurement procedures, that's when we negotiate directly, and there is no public control system at all. Don't let me count on it. And then we go back on Friday, the day I didn't have the opportunity to take part in the debate over a double sanction of disenfranchisement in the debate, so look at how many public tenders were cancelled in 2019 by the Commission for the control of public procurement procedures. Not one. One of these two reports is not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46040	Thank you. We will now go to individual debates and will first speak the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46041	Citizens do not report projects largely on, for EU funds partly because they do not know how to do it and there is no one to advise them, and in part because these tenders have not been transparently implemented. In this sense, I will talk about two specific things where the problem with the surveillance system is one concrete example of how our surveillance system works in relation to the European surveillance system and the recommendations for improvement in our surveillance system. So what happens when Croatian citizens see illegalities in the use of funds from European funds. Report the case to OLAF and then he contacts the point at national level, the Office for the Prevention of Irregularity and fraud. It is a small service that has only 5 employees within the Ministry of Finance, but has no authority to exercise control and determine irregularities but only to coordinate the management activities of irregularities. What does that mean in practice? In practice, it means that we have a situation where when you see an irregularity it goes into action as well as all other irregularities within the framework of the DORH, the Ministry of Finance, etc., which are already overloaded and which are not specialised in detecting irregularities within the EU funds. So, in summary, we have a specialized agency, a contact point that could deal with these irregularities, but we have not given it sufficient authority to do so. The MUP and others who are able to accept and act on these irregularities are not referred to how they are dealing with precisely subsidized corruption. The issue has been raised at European Parliament level, when the funds allocated under EU funds will finally start to be controlled in Croatia in a way that independent, independent bodies have access to control. So that I can check, say, public procurement procedures, not just coordinate something. And what the European Commission said, therefore, gave a concrete answer, said that indeed the Member States are determining how they will regulate those bodies that are dealing with irregularities and fraud right now, but that it is prescribed to strengthen the role and tasks of the AFCOS so called, that is the control system. So, unfortunately, we misused our ability not to give them the chance to control and to leave them just as a coordinating body. So the problem is we don't have anyone who could really find those irregularities. Secondly, I will take one concrete example, I have examined OLAF's report, so it is a body at EU level that determines major irregularities in the use of the 2019 eu funds, and it does not specify names, but states a concrete example of malversions in Croatia concerning wastewater disposal systems. I've been searching a little bit of who this might apply to, or it would be a recommendation that we don't have any abstract "cases" in these reports, rather than writing to us nicely what companies are talking about when the examples of abuse have already been explained. It is possible that this is a system for decommissioning Poreč, the value of these contracts was around 40m euros. And now what's interesting to me is why I'm saying it's possible that it's a case because they don't state the name and last name, so what companies have done these malfeasances. Because that disposal system has reported to them OLAF and they've given one explanation for what happened with the withdrawal of funds about what OLAF is accusing them of. So where's the problem? They say, after our competent authorities have challenged OLAF's decision that, in this case, the apparent absolute sustainability of the EU's decision-making bodies is again apparent, without taking into account the opinions of the most important actors in the national governance structure of eu systems. You see what's going on, we don't have enough system of our own supervision, so we're being monitored by the EU bodies, and then I don't know who's right about that, but I do realize that those who are the accused case that OLAF mentions, they still complain that the EU is not carrying out good surveillance, but that we should listen to our supervisory bodies. So, who's crazy here? Who does not know how to monitor the EU or Croatian supervisory authorities? In this sense, my key recommendation would be, since there are different funds and to see how many percent of them failed to withdraw or where there were irregularities, to penalize them, to be an internal quality system for officials who did not know how to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46042	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46043	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We speak here, I would say in language, the target in language, of course, is no wonder that even in the assembly there are not too many colleagues and colleagues, they have their own speakers, so Mr. Pavić, by that mouth you praise us, spoke about the report that he was written and of course written by experts, so he said that he would bring him closer to the citizens, that he would bring him closer to the citizens, and of course the citizens would not be lost in this translation, and if he would translate this language too. What we hear every day in politics, which is really saying how much money we've withdrawn, but about the usability of these funds, so that's how it's presented to the citizens, it's not talking. And here we have seen from a series of documents that there are even very interesting differences and about the very usability of different funds. That's one thing I'm going to say about. However, it needs to be seen that who these experts are, and I will say that even CNB analysts and indeed eu funds experts, such as Mrs Vela, if we can agree, they are talking about real problems related to projects themselves and withdrawing funds because they can only talk about withdrawal, and therefore implementation and efficiency, this is some process. They say this, institutions without quality preparation, insufficient coordination, inefficient human capacities and the impact of politics. The institutions of Croatia are not quality prepared for the use of large financial allocations, state administration bodies, local self-government units, public enterprises are not sufficiently coordinated, human capacities are insufficient and inefficient, and the responsibility of the management and control system does not exist or exists as badly as we have heard. What should be mentioned perhaps as a specific subject, and I have not heard today, one of the key problems is the untimely opening of the call. The management bodies of each operational programme shall define at the beginning of the year all calls to be opened with indicative indications of the date of opening, which shall be the total allocation, which shall be the highest, minimum amounts of grants, activities and costs to be financed. What's going on? It is delayed to publish calls for their non-opening according to indicative annual plans of these calls to be one of the reasons for the previously displayed large differences between allocations, the value of the agreed and the paid funds. For example. Of all the operational programmes in this aspect, the Operational Programme of Efficiency and Human Resources is particularly highlighted, I think there was a little less speech here, only Mr Pavić, most of the calls made by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, which was, in fact, announced by the management body for OPULJP, for example. for opening the program, he never even opened it. This practice continued until '19. According to the published indicative annual plan within the priority axis No. 1, and these are employment announced three calls, none are renewed. Within priority axis No. 2 social inclusion, 10 were announced and 2nd in priority axis 3, education announced 4 and 2 opened. Within priority axis 4, good governance, 9 announced and only 2 calls are open. This is Mr. Pavić, for example. I was interested in this very involvement of women in the labour market, so it's very interesting, somewhere I wrote down, he singled out the special involvement of women in the labour market, I found the inclusion of civil society related to pensioners. Out of a hundred million, just interesting when you open the page, the call is open and closed. So this is not what I wrote, and all the projects for which it wasn't what was the prerequisite and it was the opening of the call were really numbered. If we didn't have the call on time, What could we have done? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46044	Thank you very much, we have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46045	Here's what we could do, for one of these specific IPARD programs, this is said in this report for the period from 2007 to 2013, throughout the years of implementation, negative effects at the level of absorption, have been mitigated by promotional activities, held meetings, workshops with consultants with the goal of better preparation, etc. Now, I'm going to translate a little bit, so we haven't been able to get the funds where they were supposed to, to fix the lives of our citizens, but that's why we took the funds for ourselves, and then we've had a little fun, we've been hanging out at meetings, maybe in some nice places, we've said a little bit we're going to learn a little bit more about how to get those funds back next time, etc. Indeed, here you have set a concrete example that when we bury under these European funds, as if we have entered a mine of various irregularities that talk a lot and from which we can learn a lot about what needs to be fixed at Croatia's level and not just European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46046	Thank you. Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46047	Well, I could say somehow that this is an excuse, so from the first of 2014, I'm sure we missed the applicant, and we missed it because there was a lack of qualified experts. And it certainly was necessary to invest in the education of those who could write projects and withdraw funds. But if you really look at this programme of efficiency and human potential, so it has a table, so it says the value of the allocations is a billion and 617 million, the value of the contracted funds is a billion and 150, the usability or paid-off of the users is half a million. So it's not even 30%, it's 1/3 of everything that's happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46048	Thank you very much. Now we're going to do it, it's been three hours, so we're going to have a debate, so we're going to take a break for the ventilation, and I'll see you back at 13 and 50 here. It's the 13th 40th hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46049	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13.50 HOURS]] And now the individual debate will be held by a respected representative of Willim Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. You've really said everything that I've imagined in my preparation, so I'm still going to concentrate more on the rural development program. Anyway, I'm saying, it's all said, all the remarks that I particularly agree with, which is that there are no ministers here today, I'm aware of what a colleague has said about how many ministers and ministers have changed over the past four years. Here's the secretary of state representing and defending the report instead of the minister. As much as there is, the former minister of this area, Mr. Pavic, said that the minister is in the Assembly every week and defending, but this is still very, very awkward, very unpleasant. Everything has already been said about how this House's decision to discuss this report every six months, because it is important. Of course, Minister former Pavić can talk about how unprofessional we all are, but let's not be completely stupid about how we also probably act for you who are truly extremely intelligent, you probably have confirmation, I don't know if today and tomorrow are going to ask, I don't know, I probably won't pass, but that decision that we haven't made would help us learn about these things, we as MPs. I guess those experts who do that that they should be in on it so much. And so the secretary of state says we're successful. I am this ignorant in these areas, of course, it's all a total allocation of 10.73 billion euros, a total of 3.31 billion euros and 3,81% of the allocated funds, which confuses me, of course I don't understand it, and then I think ok I'm in the Committee on Agriculture, which I also don't know about, even though I'm a country kid, I mean right here from Gracan, I've been digging it all, I see the board president, and then I need to say something about it. Measure 4, investment in physical assets of the largest 582 million 260 thousand euros, total contracted 524 means 90% great. Now a total of 521 million euros paid, a total of 290, eventually we come to these famous ones, but today it has been mentioned more than 49%. But the secretary of state says, that it's a growth in bargaining, a growth in payments, I don't know I've seen that before, I don't see such an important growth, says we're on the right track, it's normal that we were wrong, it's human error, says the secretary of state. Yes, Tolusic was wrong, so they put him from this position to the Minister of Agriculture and he was wrong there, and they removed him, and he was wrong, and by mistake Mercedes found himself in her backyard, and then eventually she had to go and drink all the pressure and everything, and then Mr. Pavić went into the whole game. Basic services and reconstruction of villages in rural areas, that also 49%. And now I'd end up with this, here's one payment position of areas with natural constraints and other special constraints, allocated 269 million, confirmed 217, 79%. Great. However, I must tell Bani, who has now been killed, she has been neglected before, I have never spoken of the Gorski Kotar, impossiblely ignored, and there has been no rebellion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46051	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the HS, MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Listen, here's the debate. I can agree that this is a great result. Super result is not only by figures but by what could have happened if we had stayed in politics, in direction and in decisions like we had at the time that Croatia joined the EU, the way operational programmes were made, the way the Rural Development Programme was developed, which was returned five times to completion and the measures that were literally chosen as from hats instead of being recognized at that time, which is the real need of Croatia and Croatian agriculture. I think that everyone here is clear and we do not need to be experts to know that what is agreed and approved by the European Commission that we are driving on that programme and on that highway for the next seven years, as will happen now and for this 24.5 billion-euro envelope when we determine which direction, when we coordinate our operational programmes with the Commission, when we get approved, that is what will be done for the next seven years and that is why we should not repeat some mistakes from the past. That's why when we look at this data, yes, it's great how it could have turned out because we literally took two years of membership in the EU, we didn't pull any lip, we didn't pull a euro cent, so we didn't pull anything. There have been huge discrepancies, there have been no communication, and we are not talking because I see that everyone is very referenced to agriculture and rural development, that I find it entirely wrong to choose the direction where most of our European envelopes stand out for rural development rather than for direct payments. If we want to strengthen our agriculture, if we want to strengthen agricultural production, if we want to achieve competitiveness, if we want to achieve self-sufficientness which we have all talked about several times, and I think we all agree that there is no difference there, then it is logical that we invest directly in this production, rather than investing in cycling paths. The honour of cycling trails that I absolutely support, but I don't think they're a priority axis based on which we're going to develop rural space, increase employment in rural space, keep young people or encourage them to certain activities that they would have designed themselves to bring this rural space back to life or that what we strongly want to attract new people to the village. So I would point this debate in another direction, that all that's been happening to us for the past seven years is one lesson to learn something from these mistakes and to set ourselves up differently in the future. We now have programming to do, we have seen that we need to simplify administrative requirements for users. I don't mean just a segment of agriculture, I mean other segments. So administrative requirements must be smaller, bureaucracy should be more available to users, and what I think would be very important to establish this stronger communication with the county development agencies, with urban development agencies and with lies that can very much help prepare projects because some of our users especially if we talk about small agricultural economies, we have to say that the different agencies that operate exclusively on a market basis are too expensive for them. They're not self-capacitated to write projects, and on the other hand, the money they're asked to prepare for them, they don't actually have that money. In that sense, I see the need to strengthen internal capacities, state, county, but I also see one opportunity to further strengthen the advisory service because according to the latest data that I have, one consultant comes to 585 agricultural economies. Not only is it not possible to perform the primary role of the advisory service, if we want this advisory service to perform other roles, for example, to assist in applying to farmers for European funds, then we must support them. We saw that a lot of money was invested on measure 4 investment in physical property, everyone here said how many super tractors we will have in Croatia, but I have to tell you that the average age of tractors in Croatia is 32 years and that we need these financial resources, but what I said initially requires investment in agriculture production. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46053	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46054	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, obviously you haven't listened to my argument before. Yeah, well, you've figured out anything about how the money-using process has been going since the beginning of the perspective. [[I did.]] Did you realize there was no deal in the first year? Did you realize that in 2021 this HDZ government won't contract any kuna or EUR, did you get that? You're talking about two years of inaction of a former government, don't resort to that government anymore. Six years have passed, the results are as bad and defeated as we have, so don't rely on us anymore. I left the deal like, like now contracts on the contract 126% where those 26 of ours were phased projects, so they automatically went to the cargo. new perspectives. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] That's what you need to understand and know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46055	Honorable representative Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46056	Of course, fellow Greeks, if you had known then you wouldn't be one of the worst ministers in the history of regional development, negotiating financial resources. Don't touch and humiliate other MPs here, especially those who know something and know about the subject they're talking about. So everybody knows that, I don't think you should throw it out of the bench, it's really rude.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46057	Yeah, yeah, I just said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46058	So, everyone knows that the minister from your ranks Mr. Jakovina made such a bad rural development programme that he was returned to work five times, that he mischosen the measures and completely missed the measures, so the effects were seen and saved himself from being saved, and that I'm not saying that he was setting up competitions for the companies that funded your party and that therefore OLAF ordered Croatia and only saved us from returning the financial resources of the fact that we had just entered the EU, so they looked through our fingers or they had to fix what could be fixed. So don't talk like that 'cause neither did I speak to you personally. Or in any way talked about how you guys talk like we're all stupid around here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46059	Thank you. The next replica is a respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46060	I don't think it's right for the debate in this direction, given that every government has had its own successes, Mr. Greek has done his job properly and honestly, I think we've had some successes in this matter together, and there shouldn't be any personal insults or personal approach. We are talking here about a report that unfortunately in its area where we are being warned, or where they write about lessons learned, that's exactly what you said. So we have a problem with our capacities of people who should be supporting people who are looking for this asset, we don't have them. We didn't do anything. We have a problem with the deadlines we misjudge, we have a problem with the funds we misjudge and misjudge later and we spend. So that's what we need to talk about. We need to create a system that will allow us to spend those funds we receive from Europe in the right way and for the right purpose. Without it, there is no progress in this Croatia. And there, that's the point of these discussions. And that from now on, from all this together that gentleman gave that report, since there is no minister, we learn something from it. and move forward. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46061	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46062	Thank you, dear colleague Pavić, I just said what you said and appealed to it through your discussion to learn something from the past period and to be better. That's the point. But my colleague, Greece, spoke to me at a personal level, telling me that nobody but him knows anything about European funds and what's going on. And let me answer that. I don't usually respond like this, but I think it's still too much to declare us all ignorant and we don't know how to read the report and we don't know anything about procedures, and everybody else knows. So that's how I don't think you can communicate. I agree with you, I repeat again, and that's what I said in the debate, we need to train our own resources, our own services to be available to citizens. We must simplify administrative requirements, and what is most important we must choose good measures. So let's not waste money that really has a lot on something that won't give us added value, and that's what's happened to us. And then you go into a situation to negotiate just to make a deal to spend it because you don't have You don't have a wide space, and it can't be repeated. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46063	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46064	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. I don't think this debate should be reduced to what it is to achieve to defend itself for fellow Greeks as a minister, because I see they've been doing it all morning in the sense that he was successful or unsuccessful. Now they say that nothing could be arranged, we have information that in the first 2 years some 6% have been contracted and that a little less than 1% of any of the contracts on the part of European funds has been paid. So now I don't know if we were allowed to negotiate, we weren't allowed to, whether he was a good minister, wasn't a good minister, but the fact that for regional development he was not good and we know what we went through, through the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, on islands, on many other laws, on assisted areas, etc., and that's his legacy. We're talking about this report today and what we've been through for the past two years, and I think we're on the right track, and it needs to be done by the end of what we're talking about, and I think it's going to happen in three years, no matter what their wish might be, even though I believe it's just like that, except it's just for the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46065	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46066	Thank you, colleague I will fight for the replica. So you can certainly better assess from the point of view of the local level in which the funds for regional development were distributed in the previous period and whether it was even and whether money was coming into the right hands and whether laws were passed that would allow everyone to take advantage of their development chance. What I think is important, that we end this envelope and this budget period as successfully as possible in the circumstances in which we are, that so far agreed, 116% think it's significant, so does every smart state to negotiate more than it's approved, so that the funds don't go to waste and God forbid, they have to go back. But from all of this, we need to exhaust and find another motivation and direction so that in the future we can properly program and channel the funds where they need to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46067	Thank you. Thank you very much, the next debate will be the respected representative of Marko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46068	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's this report, a total of 10.7 billion euros available from the envelope of 2014-2020, 116% of the contracted funds, and so far we haven't lost the euro cents or will. The European funds change Croatia for the better, the European funds ensure a better life for our citizens, and that is not just us, reports by the European Commission that have shown that Croatia's GDP level is just growing, we have crossed the 60% average of Europe, we should have gained 2 billion euros less, we have entered a more developed category and we are precisely responsible for the use of European funds. And if that were the case, here also today, DZS data say that for the first time, the average salary has increased over 7000 kuna, 7038 in the mandate of this government since October 2016, an increase of nearly 1400 kn, which is 7 times higher in your term of office when you, Mr. Greek, were sitting in the government. Here's Mr. Matula called me a little bit, that I'm here to label people who don't know, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry to discuss at this level European funds, European funds, that's not how smart he is, but how professional he is. In particular, here's to your club, here's Mrs. Bencic, she and I often disagree, but I don't deny her expertise, she's really professional at it, and then I'm sorry to see that at the last minute she pulls a speech on behalf of the club and Mr. Glavasevic here has emotional outbursts, but he doesn't know, reads from the reports and doesn't know what's behind those recommendations. Then Mr. Grcic, we remember his and the application that the funds couldn't ic, so as a surprise he didn't send a single report, so your report in 2014 and 2015 was defended by Secretary of State Žunac 2017. So much for you, and your government along with you, you have not made a single remark in Brussels that we should put in the regulation that we have a billion euros more. No remarks by Croatia, which made it clear that countries that had a crisis and a GDP drop of over 3%, received an additional 10% for those countries that entered the EU before 2013, only Croatia entered 2013, did you not react then. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasdic, gone again, has not heard of ARPA, OLAF, is constantly seeking to give some of the corruption labels, OLAF is the last instance, if we also look at these reports that we discussed today, 141 applications to OLAF worth 9m euros, of 10.7 billion euros, 9m euros in applications. But OLAF is the ultimate instance. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasdic has not heard of something called ARPA, the EU programme system review agency. This agency audits every tender, every institution that is accredited in the system, assigns an annual assessment, takes a sample and checks the public procurement system, and all, afterwards, the Brussels auditor checks the ARPA and how they work, works an additional independent sample, especially in the case of corrections, where, on 100 examples of corrections, they give, independently in Brussels, an estimate of how much would have been, if in 5 a derogation, what was prescribed by the correction, Croatian institutions, payments and EU funds to the entire country, it happened to the Czech Republic, it happened to many countries, Croatia did not. And these are all the institutions that control all the levels and Mrs. Selak Rasdic did not mention it at all and then OLAF comes and reports to OLAF of which 141 have been reported, half of them are in rural development where most applications are likely related to the issue of support and land. All in all, European funds help Croatia, we have strong incentives, GDP growth, and we will still have 2.5 times more resources available in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46069	Thank you. We have four replicas, the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46070	Thank you. Here's my question, I'll repeat the question I've asked before, but you as a former minister will surely know the answer to that. Tell me, how is it normal and common for state officials and ministry employees to participate in working hours at seminars that are charged, organised by private companies, which are charged for end-users to get information about eu funds? Both you and I will agree that it is certainly crucial that all our users have timely information about the competitions, but I believe it is the responsibility of the state to finance and implement in cooperation with the private sector, but not by participating in this in a private arrangement at the time of their work, but rather, that the state organises it itself and pays possibly consulting companies to assist them in the organisation. This is literally selling information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46071	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46072	Well, exactly what every competition carries, it carries workshops with information about every competition where everyone can come. This is also the case with programming and the National Recovery Programme and discussions on the multiannual financial framework and working groups and everything. Therefore, each group shall be accessed and the information must be made available and they shall be. As for if you named Mr. Savic's name today so I can defend him, he's not a civil servant, he's an adviser to the prime minister, but he's not an official. He's also a special advisor on the contract of action. And to you as someone who was a consultant when you were in Discussion, it didn't bother such workshops, so you organized them yourself. But again to get back to the facts, all information is available publicly, for each competition is organised a special public workshop and consultation on programming with all target groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46073	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46074	Thank you, dear Vice President. counterpart Pavic, it is undeniable that the EU funds are changing Croatia, but here we often hear from a part of the colleagues who might call the Eurosceptics that we pay more in the EU budget, less funds, there are also those who, of course, are already against the introduction of the euro today. So I'd like to ask you just one public opinion as to how much of this we've paid out of our budget to the EU budget, and how much have we withdrawn so far?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46075	Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46076	Thank you, dear colleague Begonja. So the net difference between how much we've paid and how much we've withdrawn is 38 billion kuna in plus. How big is that? In practice, it is a majority and a quarter of the budget, but these funds also give stability to public finances, these funds guarantee the creditors of stability. We kept a credit rating while several times the previous governments were in crisis, and now they're giving us a stable rating. And what might be for Eurosceptics who say it is but it will always be paid by citizens. Croatia is still at 60% of the EU's average and as such is a net recipient. Basicly developed countries will pay for our development, that's the meaning of cohesion and there we get 24.5 billion euros which is record high compared to... no state has received so much funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46077	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46078	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pavic. Of course you understand when you're talking about my mind about expertise, that I was talking about here, I'm glad that you've praised my colleague Bencic because she's really an expert in this area, but I've been telling you that if every six months, what we've voted here is this sensitive, not all of the documents, but this sensitive document we're discussing that even below average we can understand this, after every six months because we're going to go, and not that you're only holding on to the elite of this lecture. And then after that, and you all know the result that Tolusic after all gets that special money and that the minister here is the justice that but they gave everyone in their county whoever answered just so Tolusic could pay off in huge money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46079	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46080	Well, fellow Matula, if I remember all the debates we had, especially with the debates when the prime minister came from the European councils, we discussed every little about the eu funds in this House of Commons. I remember a number of discussions where we discussed how we use these money, what the future of these European money is. As for the wine envelope, the funds are more than enough, everyone who answers, if you want to open the OPG with winemaking, I believe you'll get it. So Mr. Tolusic's winning doesn't mean corruption. If you think there's a corruption report to ARPA, report it to OLAF, but everyone has the right to obtain funds from the wine envelope have not yet been used, not used. And don't throw corruption labels so easily, and a total of 141 applications to OLAF on tens of thousands of agricultural projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46081	The next replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46082	Here's a esteemed colleague. Well, now you've just mentioned yourself constantly being apostrophe of how many remarks there are. Of these thousands and thousands of projects, there were only 141 remarks worth EUR 9 million. What I would like you to witness once again is that there are agencies both SAFU and Payment Agency, etc., all of them control systems, and it is also important to say that the audit firms that are engaged are currently to monitor and, after the completion of each project, control each project individually. So there's multiple control on all instances and that's what needs to be pointed out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46083	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46084	Thank you very much. Well, it is this stigma that tries to glue corruption, let's just say, frankly, the European Commission has learned, for example, other countries, especially Bulgaria and Romania, by introducing these controls. The controls are of a level.../incomprehensible/... that carry out the first control itself, after which the ARPA independent agency paid by Brussels for technical assistance shall carry out every invitation, every call and every institution assesses. The following levels are then auditors who verify all of this to the ARPU from Brussels at sample level, then the European Court of Auditors comes and then the state audit carried out at the level of an institution. So one-five levels of audit we have. OLAF is the last to have an application and therefore it is only 141 applications, which is some European average. The European Commission has secured all.../incomprehensible/... and this stigma of corruption on 10 thousand projects It's not justified. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46085	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46086	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, today I see most of the debate as to how much the government has withdrawn European money. For starters, I don't like the term European money at all. These are our money, to which Croatia has the right as an EU member and this EU membership Croatia pays fat. That's why I'm going to concentrate on the one in my opinion a much more important problem, and that's what our country and its citizens benefited from. Very small, almost nothing. There is no need to return to the past and to repeat more that it is in this budget period from 2013 to 2020. Croatia withdrew only half of European money, slightly less than 50%. Everybody knows that. That 5 ministers in charge of European funds were also replaced in Croatia during that period. Everybody knows that. Those are indisputable facts. If they were great, they probably wouldn't have been removed. That's irrelevant now. We can't get the time back. What we can do, we can turn to the future and to the business that as a country we can make our citizens, our small entrepreneurs who create or try to create additional value in these impossible conditions for Croatia to benefit from that which they do not now. I'm going to give you just one specific example, and there's a lot of them. A small or medium-sized entrepreneur seeks credit to invest, hire people, create added value and HAMAG BICRO through the ESIF European programme can give him a guarantee worth 80% of his investment, of course through commercial banks. And in order for him to get the money first, he has to get approval from the bank whether the project is sustainable or not. Often, the bank does not approve the project at all, but it is not all, if it is granted 80% guaranteeing HAMAG and it would be consistent, couples, dogs financing, simply justly, logically, reasonablely and fairly, that 20% of that business risk would be transferred to the bank, but the bank would sometimes take up to 100% collateral even stronger. Which is unfair, and it complicates people's lives, and everything in Croatia is administratively complicated to the end. And that's why many small entrepreneurs with a good idea don't even show up for competitions because they can't even finance investment predictiveness. And what's the consequence? Structural funds are often reported by those who may not need it, but are financially capacitated to report for them. And that's not the point. The goal is that everyone works and that everyone creates value. An even bigger problem with Croatia is that the vast majority of money is focused on the public sector or is directed towards a dysfunctional central state on the one hand and on the other hand into a massive local self-government, which is actually tragic. And when a European project at the level of units of local self-government is realised in these competitions, work usually gets large companies often, very often by foreign companies. Of which our entrepreneurs especially small and medium, our people who would simply want to live from their work have no use at all again. The aim of a sustainable society is to create sustainable funding models in order for our economy to be sustainable, not to publish, without a plan, public procurements that these people need to adapt to, entrepreneurs. And people actually watch what is the subject of the competition and how they have to adapt to it instead of the state looking for models so that the state should adapt to them because they hire people and create new jobs. So far, investments in public investment from EU funds have therefore had little or no impact on Croatian GDP and the economy and on the development of competitiveness. And now that we have the means as a state, we finally have European money at our disposal to develop our economy, to be more competitive, the government doesn't know how to channel these funds and help our people create value and employ our people. Either the government doesn't know it or the government can't. And in this country, once and for all, you have to stop looking for an alibi for mistakes and failures and an on-call culprit. If small entrepreneurs can only get European money on paper, and in reality they can't because banks don't want to finance their projects who's here to solve it? Well, I guess the government, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy. It's the easiest way to put blame on others and tell me you'd like to, but the banks won't give it to us. Here's a recent example of the disintegration of the health system. He's trying to create an illusion, a delusion that the finance minister didn't know about the debts in health and debt to the big drugstores, and that he wasn't responsible and then set himself up to clean himself up for the state of finances and blame it all on Minister Beros and suddenly Beros is guilty of everything. Well, wait a minute. Who's in charge of finance? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] I guess the Minister of Finance, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46087	We have one replica, a respected representative of Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46088	Your Honor, here you have drawn attention to the competitions that are being held with us in the way they are being conducted and who gets the jobs. It's an old famous thing. The jobs get big and ultimately the fifth hand are those small contractors who stay at zero or even negative after doing the jobs they are doing, regardless of whether they are projects that have come funded from European funds or are financed from local self-government or from the state budget. That's one thing. Another thing I'd like to warn you about, unfortunately there are no colleagues here, so I'm not going to name him, we heard here again today several times the same claim that thanks to the government, 24 billion euros will come to Croatia. It's not thanks to the government. We'll get it for the government. Those who took an interest in and looked at a little documentation from Brussels know it's 27. 5. In 2020 in Brussels, the European Commission published a document stating that the weakest and worst will receive the most. That's why we got the most money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46089	Thank you. The answer of the respected envoy Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46090	Absolutely, counterpart Pavić, you are, of course, right and what needs to be understood when it comes to governance of the state, that responsibility for state governance must not be transferred at all. So people who run the country simply have to get out of their comfort zone and sometimes take moves that are painful, not just get up on the side of the weaker but know how to stand up against the strong, to protect their citizens and to help the Croatian economy. Croatia is a sovereign state and as such can do anything. And the responsible government must be able to start implementing policies in the direction of the interests of all its citizens and these small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and not only to implement the policy alibi, because there is, as a state, government, Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Economy, nothing can and is not responsible for anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46091	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46092	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will step away from these general features and talk about what is happening at local level and as you know, I come from Zadar, from Zadar County and I think that each of us should think in a way that recognises and warns about what each of us in the middle from which he prefers and in one way modeling these programs and projects can be as successful as possible. This is exactly what counterpart Petir was doing at European Parliament level, so this is how we can help our end. The fact is that many more projects are agreed and much more paid. Are we satisfied with that? No, we'd like a lot more but the fact is that despite that, our government has managed to figure out and get more double and triple that. Therefore, the goal is to channel these and such resources as soon as possible so that they can benefit all and that they can start our economy. The fact is that Croatia is also in all the reports and in Croatia as well as in the CNB, so it continuously achieves an surplus on the current and capital account of the balance of payments, which is precisely the result of the use of European funds. We know that these funds are mostly and must, except for these direct payments, go right into investment activities. What I would like to say, right at the level of Zadar County and the city of Zadar, is that, for example, What was channeled was the development of agriculture and fisheries within the framework of the programme, and also what was the experiment of development, was the construction of the Centre for Waste Management of Biljana Donja. However, I have repeatedly stressed how many problems there have been in the implementation of this project, so that more governments, more ministers who were in charge of this particular segment, have actually, in one way, stumbled on this project and it was not possible to implement it so quickly, so here it took 10 years to bury the first shovel. The value of this project in building the centre is over 370 million kuna. In addition, we also have a project of water-communal infrastructure of agglomeration Zadar-Petrcana worth 313 million kuna, which will further strengthen and improve the quality of life, both local and tourist. It was also invested in agriculture and was invested especially in irrigation, in several parts of the county. Also water-communal infrastructure agglomerations Nin-Privlaka and Vrsi worth 225 million kuna. Kolega Pavić mentioned student accommodation and nutrition in the new campus, so strengthening the University of Zadar of more than 67 million kuna, which included the city itself to close down the entire structure. We also have a reconstruction of the construction of the infrastructure of the city of Zadar "Polotok" and it is all actually from the project of the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion. In addition, there are numerous human potential projects "The Network ZaDar", "Inclusion step closer to society", specialist training of medical doctors in the health of Zadar County, then the School of Many Possibilities, and "Employed woman as a strong woman". So here are just some of the projects... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46093	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow MPs, you have talked about projects that are being implemented in the Zadar County and certainly there is one complexity there and that sometimes procedures and administrations do their part and that these projects take a long time, but the fact is that many of them, at least when we talk about large projects, especially infrastructures, could not take place at that speed, and perhaps they could not begin without these funds from European funds. I have looked at for example the Sisak-Moslavina County, the agglomeration of Kutina which we have long wanted and long ago we started it, it is now in the conduct of more than 260 million kunas. Aglomeration Petrinja nearly 250 million kuna completed, agglomeration Novska 70 million kuna completed, daily hospital in General Hospital “Dr. Ivo Pedišić" in Sisak 50 million kuna. So these are all valuable projects that have actually been implemented because it has become the presence of European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46095	Thank you. Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46096	That's right. So it is important to point out exactly our membership and the availability of these funds because when you look at that and what this government has now in this perspective sought to keep 85% of the European funds, in fact, here is a way in which we can greatly improve the living and working conditions and eventually develop those branches that we want to develop, but we ourselves need to know and understand what we want to do in order to then systematically make this development happen. So it's very important then to write these projects and programs as available, not to make yourself any additional difficulties instead of making it easier and struggling to make them as accessible as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46097	The next replica of the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46098	Dear MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, you very well summed up the way European funds have developed your city of Zadar. You've been in the assembly for a very long time. You're the chairman of the Finance Committee. You can compromise us a little in which way we have dealt with the 2008 crisis where we have been much longer in crisis years than the new arrival of EU members and crisis now where growth projections are, so for this year we have growth projections and return to GDP before the end of 2022, so a very short and not deep crisis unlike the 6-7 or 10 years we have had a continuous decline, and how have the EU funds, or those 38 billion kunas that we have now received, affected this fiscal stability and that we are better equipped with the crisis as an EU member?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46099	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46100	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I could talk a lot about this because I have many years of work experience behind me, and precisely in those times when there were no European funds, but we had to figure out how to negotiate and make certain credit arrangements with the world bank, with other credit institutions and develop here, for example. the disposal system, and then develop infrastructure facilities all with own resources, e.g. ... in the halls and the like, various different projects and then it was not possible at all in any other way to reach other sources of funds, and now we can have additional upgrades, an additional quality where then we can do much more with these resources than we could with our own capacities then. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46101	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the story has... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46102	Dear colleagues, the EU funds, together with the very existence of the EU market, are certainly major engines of European development, the better they function, the better Europe will advance, and consequently the standard of citizens of Europe, including the standard of Croatian citizens. That is why we need to make criticism and suggestions to make the system better and better. We know that there are great needs, it would be great to withdraw as much money as possible, we are currently below 50%, but as much EU funding as possible to do more things in Croatia. When we say that the system should work better we know about some of the difficulties that have been, sometimes it used to happen that if some projects were reported that one part of the project had not been reported, then by the 10th would have passed the project, then some would not, and the next would have passed in a system. Sometimes part of the system was a problem that some projects were accepted, some not because the system had fallen. Let us only hope that this will improve further in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46103	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46104	That's right. So the basic meaning of these funds is investments that we need to channel and which we need to develop. We can speak within these operational programmes and every end of Croatia must see what is and which operational programme is more interested and what would contribute to the development of each end. That is why I say that this cooperation and the influence of local leaders and mayors, mayors and mayors must be much more active in this creation. In this way, it could really happen yet, because as we know these funds can't be shared, what some expect to share with entrepreneurs, citizens directly as grenades, it's simply not so projected, it has to go through the channels of investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46105	Next replica, don't leave yet you have two replicas. The next replica of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46106	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Peric. In your presentation, you spoke of problems in the implementation of projects in your county that are financed by European grants and a period from running to implementing projects. How important do you think coordination of all institutions in the realisation of projects like this is from those involved in solving property-legal relations, those working on studies, I don't know, protecting environmental impacts, walking out of any of the local, construction permits? In our areas of great importance and maritime goods borders, the DORH knows that in many cases we must engage. How important do you think coordination is to make realisation as fast and quality as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46107	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46108	Thank you very much. The coordination should be maximum and all these efforts, I have, for example. where in the area here are my county, and probably your need to solve exactly property-legal cadastrian situations and address all the problems that we have especially in Dalmatia because they are not solved by property law. Then there is just a stalemate in the realisation of projects and that is what we are talking about when we talk about the digitisation of all these services, the procedures, the employment of additional capacities of people etc. which are re-employed from these projects because we have additional employment from the projects. So here's what needs to be used to get everything in order that we think is actually causing problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46109	Thank you. Dear Representative Boris also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46110	Thank you very much. Comrade Peric, we here in the assembly often hear two mantras, the first one you pulled zero kunas of all possible funds and our benefit of joining the EU is negative, we have nothing of which we have nothing, that's what the clubs of sovereigns say, but also some other options. And on the other hand, we have data that we have through these reports that is very important to note that once and for all, we remove this story from HS. And secondly, did we as a government have done enough in these four years, now and fifth slowly move away from what we inherited. We hear from the opposition that we're not, that we're bad, that we can't do better, and yet the results say something else. What we should be saying here as advocates is that then we would really accept this report as it is and that these are numbers that are indeed official and that we should hold, each of us, not politically committed, but each of us because they are figures, figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46111	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46112	Thank you very much. First, if we had 10.4 billion euros in one perspective, and in the new perspective we have more than 24 billion euros, so no 27 countries negotiating rights would give us the opportunity to have so many new funds if we were bad, if we had a lot of applications, if it was something very suspicious, if there were fraud, etc., so nothing happened. It worked very well in cooperation, certain conditions were changed in cooperation with the Commission again, and thus the 27 company estimated that we could and we know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46113	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46114	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So today, when we talk about these four half-year reports on the use of European Structural, Investment Funds and pre-accession aid programmes from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020, it is right in 2019 and 20. the most funds in spoken, paid and certified. Of course, in 2019, we can't expect as much funds as I don't know 2019 because we all know that these projects take a lot of time and time to prepare. But I would point out that 5.45 billion euros were agreed in those two years, which 45% of total agreed by 31 December 2020, over 60% were paid and almost 60% of total was confirmed. In April of this year, more than 116% of the funds and 12.51 billion euros were agreed, over 52% were paid and 42% were certified. I repeat these figures again because there is enough criticism, but I think we all have the same goal, to have as much funds withdrawn from European funds as we can see in that very moment our opportunity and our future. I am therefore pleased to see all the projects funded in Sibenik-Knin County from these funds. Namely, there are from a system of water supply, disposal and treatment of waste water agglomeration Sibenik worth 72 million kunas, the establishment of a whole and sustainable waste management system, the Bikarac County Waste Management Centre had a second phase worth 111 million kuna, then different disposal systems from Betina-Murter to that with impatience we expect the construction of a final phase of the agglomeration of Srima-Vodice-Tribunj, then the Palacin student home worth 80 million kuna, integrated mobility in the area of the city of Sibenik and an increase in the number of passengers in public transport worth 74 million kuna. These are only projects financed from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion. When we join this, the Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentials, which, again, means a lot in small areas. We know that the program wishes, to help older and powerless in houses, as much as it means, especially in smaller rural areas. Only for the employment of women from the region of Knin, the diocese of Kiev and Civilians, singled out and booked 8 million kuna, then wished her a job of nearly 7 million kuna, together with more Elan 2.6 million kuna, the formation of a shift and the development of a new programme in the kindergarten of the Sun 4.62 million kuna, helpers in continuing for students with developmental difficulties over 4 million kunas and so on. What I've been paying special attention to in this report, and I think that's the point of this debate in our House are so-called. It says, "Learn lessons." Which is what needs to be fixed in the next period so that even more funds can be withdrawn and that no euro will fail. According to the Operational Programme for Environmental Protection, the key importance of good coordination and cooperation with the user has been demonstrated in order to address the various administrative problems related to property and legal relations and authorisation. That is what I have already referred to in the replica of my colleague Peric. In fact, we have the Law on a general procedure that says that each item must be resolved positively, or negatively within 15 days. I would, in particular, not introduce such rules, but ask that all those working on such cases, in any institution, specifically concerning projects that will be or can be financed from EU funds. In fact, we know it's projects that have extensive documentation, but they're also related to time limits, and what's worst about each of these projects is the threat and fear and concern of all those who work that it's possible for those same funds to be recalled tomorrow. When we talked about the State Commission's report on the control of the procurement process, then I rejoiced that these are exactly the kind of projects that have been tackled as a priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46115	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. He's the first respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46116	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Juricev's. In the Rural Development Programme, so far, along with the limits that existed from the aspect of the size of the settlement of 5 thousand inhabitants, which I think should be changed, that this is not a good restriction, we also have valuable restrictions on the project in terms of grants, for example in terms of 7.4 to million, values up to a million euros, without VAT, which has become insufficient, we have seen this through public procurement procedures for the construction of kindergartens, for the construction of firehouses, etc. Do you feel that these restrictions would require and preferably change these limits more in the rural development programme, when it comes to financial resources, so that more significant funds can be withdrawn from the new Multi-annual Financial envelope? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46117	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46118	Thank you very much, colleague Begonja. I'm sorry that I couldn't say everything in the debate, but it's really very much expected from the next perspective exactly to correct those injustices that we had and that we felt during this period either say, or better say experiences. I'm not going to talk about the number of residents, and that's what I'm often talking about, as far as the financial part is concerned, that's where I agree. Why can't a kindergarten come more than a million euros, and then some of the EU funds get a certain amount, if that is a maximum of 700 thousand euros, let it continue to be 700 thousand euros, meaning that the municipality or the city, the founder, will finance at a larger amount, but it is important that the kindergarten gets the funds it is intended for it. Why rip, I don't know, rooms, the environment or the cost. We know that the value of construction works has increased considerably in recent years and we cannot adhere to those rules of 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46119	The next replica is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46120	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Here, you mentioned important investments that are important for the functioning of both the population and the development of tourism, but another one, what you mentioned were assistants in teaching for children with developmental difficulties. It is one of the projects that has greatly helped many people and children and students to have a quality assistant who directs them and helps them learn. It's something we could and I don't know how many assistants in all of Croatia are employed, but it's one of the projects that very much contributes and that these children feel integrated in the follow-up and here, I think it's a very important project.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46121	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46122	Thank you very much, colleague Peric. True, we are mostly talking about these investment-related projects, whether it's environmental protection or rural development. However, this operational programme of human potential development has shown first and foremost the best use, but these are so many praises worth projects, I don't know how now all of our children who need help in teaching, who could finance them and from what means. Likewise, the program Wishs to finance the help in the home of older people, extremely significant in the smaller.../incomprehensible/... in the smaller environments, but also in the larger environments we have cases where we have an age that does not have the opportunity to help them specifically, and this program is extremely important and important to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46123	There is also a respected representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow MPs, you also spoke about the project Zažela which has extremely well echoed in all rural areas in our counties, and this is only an indication that sometimes such smaller projects that do not amount to millions and millions of euros can give added value and can actually improve the quality of life in rural areas, but also increase the employability of those groups that are hard to employ, especially women of lower education living in rural areas and who are of an older age. In that sense, I would like to say that the same project had in Sisak-Moslavina County as you did in Sibenik-Knin County, since our county has now suffered very badly in the earthquake, we expect a lot of European funds in terms of revitalisation not only of the Banovina but of the entire space of Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46125	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46126	Thank you very much. Exactly, colleague Petir, this programme is of particular importance, not only, I pointed out on a few occasions that it is an aid to older and less capable persons and their households but it is equally important for all of those older women who are no longer able to find a job in a normal way in the competition, most often their education is not such that they can look for something special and choose, and in rural areas and cannot do what they can, for example. In our coastal areas, at least in tourist seasons, they find a suitable job, but surely with you and the villages, it's of great importance and I think there's a lot of not only what comes to those houses and helps physically in some jobs, but also the emotional one, what people finally feel is not alone, that there's someone who comes to them every day, knocks on their doors and asks if they need anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46127	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46128	Thank you very much. My colleague Juričev, you come from Sibenik-Knin County from where a colleague from the Suverenist Club came from, who also ran for the mayor of Sibenik and your data and his data disagreed. He says zero of anything, income,... expenditure, zero,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU's Republic of Croatia, you're talking about benefits and citing projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it up to us today that through this report we really find that these benefits are there or we're going to leave at the impression of these populists who don't want to discuss today because this report is clearly denying them and thus representing ourselves to the people and these people, and I don't know, a month and then every month after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46129	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46130	Thank you very much. They do not want to hear what has been done in the region of Croatia and in our Sibenik-Knin County, especially the one running for the mayor of Sibenik and very, very well knows what was done in the town of Sibenik and the city of Sibenik is ahead of the investment and the withdrawal of European funds. Only forts in which he was initially very involved, now behind this speaker only speaks of criticism although I am the mayor of the current and I am certain and future mayor, not only to deny but here we also have an announcement that the next city city will be opened with this fortress that our colleague here spoke of, that none of it, that we will pay for the pens, that we will need to return funds and so forth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46131	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46132	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, This report on the use of the 1st European Funds. 1. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 12. In 2020, I think a good document, a material with which we today should have denied any MP who here without any hesitation at all says that the benefits of EU entry are nothing, that we should not have been there and that as such, we are not able to take advantage of these benefits and that they are zero today. That's what I think is basic. Not only are we from power, from the ruling majority, but every member of the opposition, because when they rise in the Parliament and try to convince their impressions of Croatian citizens in relation to the document we have, then I guess it is our duty to correct it, and this document shows it. We can or may not have to trust these numbers but they came from the Ministry of Finance, so we don't trust this institution either. Then what can we do as such? That's the question. Because if it says that we are in this period of seven years, we have benefit, I don't know, of 62 billion paid and 25.7 paid, so that's some 38 billion kuna difference in revenue greater than what we paid, then that should be said by every MP here in the Croatian Parliament, not to support those who say it's zero and there are several. Because they have their own statistics. Is that what we used best? That's a question for every local self-government. Today or almost local elections, each of them in their local self-government estimates whether its leader was doing well, whether he was using European funds, whether he was ready, whether by means of grants, these 85% is the largest benefit of our EU accession. There is no institution, there is no friend or neighbor or anyone in the world who will give you 85% of the grants and tell you here, invest where you think it should be and be organized, be good in procedures, do it on time, and thus contribute to yourself, to your local self-government, to the state where you live as ourselves as the EU. And we need to understand that. That's why these discussions that we're hearing here, I think they're really beyond all the protocols of normal behavior. And it's not just my goal to deal with this one colleague or the other who keep repeating it, but just for that we have to have some arguments, I always have, in our county currently billions of kuna projects, right from European funds, the largest, improvement of water-communal infrastructure in the area of agglomeration of Rijeka 1.26 billion kuna. Would someone give us that billion kuna benefits to solve, we have a drain system, but it needs to be improved and made even better as in some other local self-government. Is there an institution like that? There isn't. Do we need to stop some of our political debates about whether we have achieved our benefits by entering the EU or another project that is now under way, a project to build the D403 state road from Škurinja to Luka Rijeka i.e. to Zagreb coast 520 million kuna for 2.5 km of roads, tunnels, viaducts, the merger means almost from Zagreb coast on the highway. Is this something to be underestimated and said we don't need it, we don't need it, we'd rather do it ourselves from some of our own loan funds or say we're really ready and we're doing it today and it's done like some other projects, I don't know from agglomeration on the island of Krk 369 million kuna. I think they're among the first ones to even finish it. Rehabilitation of some in environmental protection, recovery of the Soviet cave 320 million kuna at the beginning and we will discuss it much more, but there are funds and will likely miss them. And now she's talking about how fast we are, we're as fast as we can be fast. Can we go faster? I don't know. It shows time for us to reach what we wanted, and that we will have a 100% use of this first of our financial envelopes, is that what people expect us to do, that's what we have to do because these are the means that are, as it says, irreversible in the most part, and we have to deal with it. If there's a problem, there's those who have to solve it. And I think we're doing very well because the increases over the past four years are visible and don't need them all the time, and maybe that should be repeated over and over again. If 1% is more than these 49 or 50 then we have to say that in terms of payout, but that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46133	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46134	Well, here I was going to replicate actually on this part of yours, so of course no one's out of their mind to say that we don't need extra resources and we don't need to use them well. What we're arguing about is the way they're used. Here I'm going to give you an example just like your colleague used to mention an assistant in class. So, continuing assistants are the achievement of a certain child's right to participate, be integrated in education and education, which you chose to achieve in a way that you have competitions for associations, so we have competence in processes where competences shouldn't be because every child who needs an assistant in follow-up needs to get an assistant at a teaching point, not that some schools have associations that will report, others don't. We can't make our children's basic rights dependent on success in passing some contest from eu funds. I don't think that's allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46135	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46136	My colleague Bencic may not agree with you here, although in our county we have two programs regarding this, means assistants in continuing to include education and support students with difficulties. There are also 10 and 8 million kunas in the past period, and I think what you're saying, every child needs to get help, of course, but whether and everyone who applies is the one who is willing or able to help, and that's the same question. Now if you claim that everyone who logs in is capable, etc., that you should not pass any competitions that is your attitude and you will spend it one day when you are able, whether tomorrow here or somewhere else you will spend it. The rules have been laid down long ago, and it's up to us to respect them. Maybe that slows this whole story down from making deals to making payments, but the rules are rules. We see now and in our premises that are damaged after the earthquake, etc., there must be rules for those funds, it can't go as we say throwing money a helicopter, it doesn't work like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46137	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46138	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Boric, the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Well, first of all, I would rely on this, so anything that is legally defined by law cannot be financed by eu funds. The Eu funds give opportunity and therefore there are competitions, so there are rules and we are proud that so many children in Croatia have that option right through the competition, otherwise we couldn't, we don't have the means to secure it. That might be the first thing. Secondly, you are coming from the island, Minister Butkovic has always talked about the renaissance of Croatian islands, ports, ministers announces the development plan for islands, maybe from your own perspective and your municipalities and islands and wider Croatian islands, say how much this envelope meant for the development of Croatian islands, and how much will those future funds that come to you living on the islands mean to you that you can stay alive and work on islands?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46139	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46140	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić. As for my municipality, here is precisely from this envelope or as you say the construction of the port, the port on Croatian islands and on the coast in the past four years 20 million kuna, only in my municipality for two ports. We have another part of the island and there it is now being built through the Ministry of Agriculture and through their part of the fishing ports. We also have from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure also part of the coast that is now being reconstructed, there are these possibilities as much as we want. And that was the goal of all that we could do from these funds, about infrastructure to do it from these funds, not to spend national funds on it. And here, for the next perspective, we need to think a little bit more about what objects are supposed to be built out of funds because some of them have dropped us, like schools, sports halls, etc. It's hard to finance today because there's simply not enough national funding, and it's not even possible from the funds themselves in total, and we need to see how it works out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46141	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to my colleague Boric about billions and billions of kunas that the state invests in the Primorje-Gorski County in projects of agglomeration, state roads, waste management, waste water, and which are supported by these funds from eu funds, so I would like you to tell me then what the criteria are because we heard through the debate that these funds are allocated by some party keys, and not by objective needs and what they really need on the ground. How come so many billions of kunas come to the Primorian-Gorski County if the party criterion is the key?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46143	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46144	Thank you, fellow Petyr. I think the story of party, party, way of giving party funds to funds is something of the level of these 0 kunas of our EU accession benefits. So one would say even the political insolence is becoming important or popular on fictional topics because I think the competitions are available to everyone. The second is the space, the space of indexation and the possibility that you and when you report to the competition go right where you want it because there are simply more of these environments that are richer, that have larger indices of development and there are those that are weaker. And of course that's our part of helping, let's help the weaker ones reach these more developed. So he talks about the Primorje-Gorski County all that's done there, it's done by the government of the Republic of Croatia in the most part, of course there's something involved in local self-government and county, but these projects are vital. That's why I said state road D403 I don't know, agglomeration or any other project Like hospitals or not leaving funds is something we contribute to. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46145	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Klaric has this same replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46146	Dear counterpart Boris is the fact that as for the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and all the hundreds of millions and billions of kunas invested there is the fact that the projects launched by the government of the Republic of Croatia and the restoring ministries in cooperation, of course, with the units of local self-government. For all those who say that these European funds mean zero as an example, we can say a number of economic objects that have been built precisely by the grants of Europe because there has also been a model of how to meet the economies as well. On the obvious example that, for example, the water supply of the Evil Hill or the Evil Hill would be impossible to build with the funds of the city’s budget if there were no such funds. Also, our entire area and the projects that are now being done simply without these resources would not be possible to do. So what you've specifically pointed out here is that those who say that, that those means zero, I just don't know where these people live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46147	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46148	I agree with my colleague, Klaric, on everything you've said. And you're an example as the Mayor of Bakra with the strongest economic zone, I'd say by now, perhaps even at the level of the Republic of Croatia, which you've been building here for what, five mandates or four terms in a row, and you're simply showing that the European funds are talking, and in particular the last seven years when you have the largest ad let's say the moment of construction, you're talking about a number of ten new buildings that are now going to be built where you've solved everything and from the state you've got what you need and land and, of course, you've spent all the procedures that you can realize, of course the realization is going to go. And now the question is, why did you just charge so much? We're talking about about about 50%. Well, of course, in the next three years, we will exclusively devote ourselves to realisation and collection because we have solved more or less contracts. We have over 100% of the deal, so we can just continue to realize and charge ourselves, and we can do it in three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46149	The next replica of the respected representative Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46150	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke of the importance of European funds. I would remind you that in 2018, 19th year means before this Covid health and economic crisis, we said that over 80% of public investment was funded by EU funds. Over these two years, as we can see, we have even more funds contracted, we know what the situation is, and we can only assume what that percentage is now. I wonder what would happen to all those people who are employed on these projects, from designers, architects, builders, builders, builders, assistant workers, plumbers, electricians, etc., what would it be, what would that look like and what kind of repercussions would have to do with our state budget? Would these people possibly leave the Republic of Croatia? That's why all these stories about, in my opinion, are impeccable to say that the EU is unnecessary to us and the directives that we need to meet are something they don't bring. Good for our deputies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46151	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46152	Thank you very much. Comrade Yurichev, what about the workers? Well, they probably wouldn't work as much as they do now. There wouldn't be as much work as there are now and we're going through local self-government time that we've been through for the past five years. Here I am from my experience, so time 2016, '17, '18, '19. Good years when you have a lot of construction operations in operation especially large investment in the tourism sector and in competitions very rarely or almost never, almost never 2 or more offers. Today, for example, attitudes, let's say the tourism sector with its investments, you get smaller tenders for a few 5, 6, 7. So it's come down to us now that we're on the funds practically who are going to support this construction operation in some way and prepare again, I guess, during the time that this pandemic ends, that this particular tourism sector will return to its function, when we talk about the coast, and that there are really positive things happening again and through European funds, if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46153	And the last replica will be the respected representative of Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46154	Well, I don't know who's saying we don't have any use for joining the EU, but I do know how much benefit we'll have depends on us as a country. And if you're looking at only about 30% of the money is certified then it's extremely low. And now you can transfer responsibility for such low absorption capacity to users, to those who are applicants or, in fact, when you see in the report what the problem is is also a system, means intermediaries, meaning institutions that are intermediaries between users and actually EU funds. And on the other hand also what the colleague tried to ask, EU funds can't be a panacea for everyone, and especially when they're set up for helpers in continuing that then associations actually have to report together with schools and that there's actually one, one social service in a way designed and outsours in this way, and it's still being put into competence in order to meet some basic needs like the assistants in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46155	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46156	Thank you very much. A colleague, Tomašević, data only. The end of 2016 means 9% of the contract here is the beginning of 2021. 115 means 106% of the contract in 4 years. So we're talking about payments 1% end of 2016, 49% now, 48% more than then. But then we're 2017-'18. entered into the contract competition and, of course, it takes, it doesn't go overnight and the realization goes on the same way, but I don't think we have any projects that are in this part of the contract that can't be completed at 3.g. 'Cause they're all set. No more waiting now for a new competition, if we don't know what to do now, we have a position to do. If building operations are gonna talk about it the most, solve it, I believe they will because contracts for 3rd year, I don't know what 3rd-year-olds should be built on. except for large projects like the one I don't know how to finish, maybe part of some railroads etc., but what local self-governments do, small and social facilities, schools etc. Or kindergarten, it'll all be over and we have to pay for it at 3. And I believe that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46157	Thank you. Let's go to the closing words of the representatives' clubs and the first one will be the Green-left bloc representatives' club in the name of which the respected representative Sandra Bencic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46158	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a lot has already been said, so I'm going to try not to repeat myself, and I'm going to put a little emphasis on how much it's spent, and how much it's been certified. Yeah, we can't be super satisfied, but honestly, it could have been as bad as it went, and it could have been worse, and in that part, I'll admit that we're not the absolute worst in that part anymore. Everyone who used the funds for the first time had problems, and so did we, but that we used this financial perspective to build our administration's capacities to make faster and more efficient use of the funds we didn't. That's not what we're doing and this report shows that we're constantly missing people in the system, that there's a huge fluctuation of people, which is clear because we don't have mechanisms to keep them in public, in the public sector, and that we haven't found a solution to that. I'll go back to some of the things we said through the debate. First, I insist that the conclusion of the 2014 assembly is He asked that these reports be submitted six months, so every six months. Point, there's no discussion, there's no room for interpretation. What's done now is a violation of that conclusion. Secondly, when I was talking about the involvement of state officials and ministry employees at seminars organised by the private sector, I was talking about when the private sector organizes seminars and collects education, it's absolutely their right and I did it and educated people and people paid me for it. But then the ministers didn't come to these seminars to valorize and raise the value of my seminars that I would then sell, so in my working time those who needed to be publicly and free of charge gave that information to the seminars that were charged. And don't be angry, but they still do that to you, ministers, their deputies and assistants. And now I can list you the 10 that were this year and that are in the announcement. On a continuous basis, our ministers go to add value to the payment seminars. Because it's not the same you have a seminar where you educate your students and charge it as an expert or a minister comes to you, so it raises your price. Thank him very much. So that's what we're talking about, we're talking about the private sector in that part of it, yes, we absolutely need help because it's a huge Corps that needs to cover the need, but then it's done so that you, from technical assistance, call a tender for consulting companies from Croatia that will do education for certain competitions, for certain whole programmes or for whole axes. It's been done for a while, but obviously the needs haven't been covered. When you told me Mr. Pavic anyone could come to your free information workshops, he can't because there's no room, he can't because it's not enough and I know it because I know how many times people are after 5 minutes if they'd already checked in, they'd already fall out because there wasn't enough room, so he can't. The third thing, I wanted to do it again, so what's going on with those competitions, and that's what I've often said that goes according to the fastest finger model. I'll give you an example. He's recently been like this for civil society organizations. The competition in, it's called a "permanent open competition" model, and that's the one that's the shortest actually open, the 15.2. they could start submitting project proposals. You know when it's closed? 16.2., but it was actually filled in 120% of the allotment within probably a few minutes. Whether you get on such a competition project or not depends not on seconds more than hundreds. But I'm going to say one more thing about teaching models, and that's what your former ministers are all about. So people today are handing over project proposals, those going to the European Social Fund via the Mis system. So it's like an electronic project surrender system. However, when you type this project into it, you are asked to print it in pdf and record it, now watch out for the CD. I'm more CDs, I don't know who's got CDs. On the CD, you also need to mail the paper form to the contract body. We have received millions, millions of EUR, not kuna, through technical assistance for the development of an adequate system, and the European Social Fund is still going through this first MIS that really sucks and from which you really need to print these papers and send them with a dove. That's where we are with the European funds in 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46159	Thank you, thank you very much. The next final speech will be made on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46160	Respected that the Republic of Croatia is a roof user of European funds, for example in the implementation of the rural development programme is based on art. 74. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 298, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The 1303/2013 itself is responsible for all irregularities, as well as implementation through laws and regulations which do not comply with EU law and national laws, and which should be. EU court practice has already shown that in such cases the state always loses its dispute. On this basis, all those whose projects under the Rural Development Programme are based on such regulatory and practice, rejected or reduced funds or terminated contracts, can press charges in the European court and seek compensation from the Republic of Croatia and will certainly receive sport, and the Republic of Croatia will have to pay the same amount of damage from the budget and must return the same money to the EU budget, so the damage is double. Then how do you end up dealing with a situation like this? I would primarily advise the ruling to include all experts and stakeholders who can help. Right now, the system is completely shutting them down. He doesn't even want to listen to them. There should therefore be minimum harmonisation of all implementing regulations, laws and sublegislative acts and implementation procedures, in particular the Rural Development Programme with European and national regulations. I recall that, just recently, the Constitutional Court, acting on the application of the Leader of the Croatian Networks, nevertheless positively decided and ordered the Ministry of Agriculture to amend it, namely by order to abolish two controversial articles in the Law on Agriculture, which still enable farmers to be given the right to appeal. It is regrettable, however, that under the pressure of the Constitutional Court, the Ministry of Agriculture will allow the right to appeal to decisions concerning the spending of EU funds, but not all other decisions taken by bodies with public authority, as regards our farmers, so the Ministry will continue to hinder farmers and our farmers' rights to judicial protection. Then, the following is the necessary and detailed assessment of the impact of existing employees in the implementation system, and by analysing costs and benefits until current implementation with the definition of key system brakes, so to speak. narrow throats and detailed analysis of current irregularities, do not necessarily draw up guidelines to increase efficiency and reduce the costs of operational implementation. Also, the establishment is necessary to establish transparent work, to include a wide range of stakeholders in the creation of implementing policies, to strengthen education and information of users, i.e. clarity. And lastly, I mean, here's a respected colleague of Oreshkovic's not here, but I think she misunderstood me in my previous presentation. I really have nothing against investment in the city of Zagreb, every investment is welcome and commendable to me, but by adding the amounts, in particular the amount of spent and realised funds from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, I have come to the data that the city of Zagreb, which otherwise has 75% higher GDP than the rest of Croatia, has 29.6% of the funds. Certainly commendable for the city of Zagreb, but it is very worrying about the competent and also ruling ones, where the principle and approach to uniform development of the Republic of Croatia disappeared. It is also possible that the heads of the county, which are lagging behind, are responsible for this, however, if we recapitulate the irrefutable political link between our government and the counties that are poorest, then the problem of Croatian politicisation becomes even deeper and more serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46161	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46162	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the club, I'd like to finally back these reports again on behalf of the HDZ Club. Once again pointed out that of the 10.7 billion euros we have agreed over this, 116%, that we are paid in half and that we will use all the funds, not a single euro, cent, will remain unused. The 38 billion kunas we are in plus compared to the EU funds so far have shown that they are really changing Croatia for the better. They're providing some extra favors they wouldn't normally be able to afford, so when Mr. Tomesevic or Mrs. Bencic said the assistants in the follow-up, yes, the EU funds made it possible. If we had legally prescribed, as was the amendment to legally prescribe that, say, all children must have free textbooks, so we made it impossible for EU funding to be financed. As soon as it is a legal obligation, it cannot be financed from the EU funds. So EU funds give opportunity, and then it's still on the system and there's a very useful civil society and I really have to thank and commend... to also pilot solutions and provide services that should then be institutionalised, find a budget item. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU funds have ensured better integration, better agriculture, better health, education, raised GDP, investments that we have today, that once again, for the first time the average salary in the Republic of Croatia is more than 7 thousand kuna. When we talk about defects, which is what we can do better. Yes, capacity. When we watch, when we take all the competitions and watch how many people, it's an analysis, we need to miss it in the management system and control system of 1,000 people that you can't find on the market. They're gone, just people to take from college that don't have experience, it takes a year or two, to learn a job. Also, in the private sector, the consulting sector is better paid and exactly 30% of the salary allowance does not solve the problem. Strengthening capacity must be a focus in the next period, so also in the Institutional Framework Act, which will come before this Parliament, will be part of capacity building, and the second is digitisation. And I'm sorry that you didn't commend Mrs. Devereaux. Bencic, if you have not caught that a recently amended Government Regulation on the financing of civil society, where all public donors are committed independently, have given the euro funds or domestic funds, must digitise the process of all tenders over the next year. And it's also the urgency that you, as an applicant, just like the paratrooper system that we all know, to sign up with your OIB alone and connect to all the registers. The process of developing such a system is also under way and the government's priority is a bar for civil society that I know you're monitoring the digitisation of the project registration system and you have two points in the government's programme. When we talk about seminars and consultants, let's be honest, so let's say, not stick labels to individuals like you did today, it's not nice. If you want to open this debate, let's see if there's anything to regulate, where are the borders and is then the rise, the arrival of every entrepreneur of its value is when the government goes to Rome, is that then raising value, whether someone from the system teaches at a private school is that raising value, at a public school and where the limits are. Then let's open up a debate about lobbying, open a debate on consultants and borders. What you've been putting together today, Mr. Saviæ, wasn't very nice, and I hope you'll apologize to him personally. The sumptuous success of this government is also reflected by the strength of the prime minister in Brussels, EUR 24.5 billion, once again for EU funds, where GDP has grown we should have received 2 billion less if we had entered a developed, developed category of European funds, the prime minister said more. We got the same record 24.5 billion from the National Recovery Programme in the future, and I believe this government will know how to use them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46163	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the honourable representative Zeljko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46164	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the first thing I'd like to do is look back at the repeated claim that we got a lot of money thanks to the prime minister and the government. I already explained that. You have a document published by the EU Commission, 27.5.2020. in which the worst and the weakest will get the most, and therefore Croatia gets the most. Read what it says in that document. You must have read it, and you know what it says. ... And you know what it says. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46165	Let's not, let's not beg from the place, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46166	As far as the report is concerned, I don't think it's at all questionable whether we should get that report every six months. We've already commented on some reports here, and we said this is not the point in the report just in numbers and in what's written inside to read and to eventually boast about the increases there is, in order to look back at the previous period in which something wasn't good, but it's about learning from these figures. We should learn, learn, or see what the problems are, for example. how are the selected funds from Europe that we received in Croatia, which the counties received the most, which the municipalities received the most, and wonder whether it is really in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, whether this distribution is good or not. And let's see what collective actions we need to take to change that. Is it in our interest to have even development or not? Or maybe it's satisfying for us to have it at 2. We lose 60-70,000 people from Slavonia? I don't think we should be happy about that. And we need to learn something from these reports. I don't think anyone has the right to question the figures that came in these reports, that the figures are good, that the figures are written in accordance with all the standards that were adopted, that they were written in accordance with the data that were really about the withdrawal of those funds. However, we have to ask ourselves whether these figures will be in the future, whether these figures will be ours in the future, or whether we will change them in the counties, cities and municipalities. As far as Eurosceptics is concerned, I don't think they're right and I can't talk about that there's no point in being an EU and not being paid for EU membership. I'm sure it's worth it right now because we're pulling more money now than we're paying for membership fees. This is likely to change in the future, I hope not so soon, but when new EU members arrive, Croatia will continue to give more and more funds, and we will receive funding less in line with our development. We have touched here and the problems of documentation and the government is withdrawing funds, the government is responsible for all of this. Don't forget, I've already talked about this pay phone about these people and these frames. It's important how many of these capable people we have employed by our ministries, how many quality associates we have, how many high-quality consultants we have. What's happening to us? And I've already interpreted it once, and I'm going to interpret it again. What's happening to us is that what you said today in the debate, we pull people from college who have no idea about anything, we school them for a year, they do 1, 2, 3, 5 projects, and what they do after that, they leave. Where are they going? We pay them dearly at the consultants', and after that, we pay them dearly. So for us, for our country, it's certainly not good for our budget. Have we achieved our goals? We should actually see from this report if we are satisfied, have we achieved the goal of strengthening agricultural production, have we achieved the goal of getting our people back to Slavonia, are we the goal of going in plus with democratic trends? That is what we need to look at, discuss it, and we need to make a good, well - analyzed, and give new instructions afterwards. We need to ask ourselves one more question. Who's been assigned these funds to? Were they really assigned to those most needed or those who had the best acquaintances?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46167	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, Velimir Zunac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46168	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, first of all, I would like to thank you at the end of this debate today for a constructive debate, on all suggestions and suggestions, on all the criticisms that I believe were well-intentioned, but they too need to be heard to make things better. I'm also expressing my personal regret about the delay in these reports, and here it is repeatedly mentioned here today. So, what you're about to say is I'll just get these reports now, but believe me, there was no hidden intentions or bad intentions were really justified, but from this place I'm telling you now that these delays will no longer be and that future reports will be delivered with a minimum deviation from the reporting period. The facts and figures contribute to the fact that we have had a really significant growth and negotiations and payments towards end-users, and also to the verification of funds, and that is indeed very easily verifiable and I am very glad to finally hear that some of the MPs have admitted it to me, so I am personally, since I am working in the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, so I am very glad that we are in these positions because this has not been easy. So it's a big, thorny path, as I've already said, so we have an envelope that's definitely a lot bigger than it was the first envelope in 2007. – 2013, and we are facing challenges in the future. So, behind us are about 7,500 contracts signed in the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, about 2,500 contracts signed in the Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentials, over 13,700 contracts under the Rural Development Programme, etc., and so on, and believe me, there have been no lines of any kind that mentions here but calls have therefore been opened, competitions that have been received by those who were interested. And what I can see as someone who comes from local self-government, and now I'm in the ministry, so there somewhere in the early '14-20 period. There was a lot more money, and a lot less applicants. Now whatever we publish any public call that's being published today is 3, 5 or 10 times as much funds as we have at our disposal. It therefore states that all have recognised the opportunities and opportunities brought by European funds. I just want to say the same thing, so even though it was said here today that we are, therefore, the worst, the last, so that's the story on these reports, neither we are the last, nor we are the worst, so even by the payments, we are not the last, as we were told here today, and I also said behind that and I stand in the golden middle because in some, in some categories we are at the very top, in some we may be lagging behind, but that's something that we're going to change. It has already been mentioned here today that therefore the Republic of Croatia has little use for EU membership, but these 38 billion kunas, as at the end of 2020, are indeed a very tangible reason so that EU membership is also very useful for the Republic of Croatia. And I can only say that we are currently implementing thousands of projects in the entire Republic of Croatia. Let's just say in the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion we're spending over 35 billion kunas. So we're talking about really big numbers, and many of them are already at the end or they're done, and there's still a long and thorny way to realize it, but it's not all expensive, it's not a reason not to be optimistic, and I really don't believe that we're going to use these funds completely until the last EUR because these figures, or these trends, are clearly telling us that we haven't lost a single EUR-o so far because we've met all N+3 goals this year and I believe and next year, I believe that in the last year 2023, and that these 10.73 billion Euros will not be the subject when in a few years we're going to discuss it in a negative context but to say, okay, we've absorbed, we've withdrawn all available EU funds. And only in the end, so you're right, so our biggest problem is capacity, but it's really done continuously. We have public procurement coordinator networks, capacity-building coordinator networks, a network of coordinators for a lot of things. So we try to educate both people in the system and people outside the system in order to have as strong administrative capacities as possible, professionally, and with the competences required so that they can do their job in quality and therefore the Republic of Croatia can benefit from that. Of course we are also thinking about speeding up all possible and simplifying procedures and speeding up all processes, so at all levels and that's what we are trying to do and I believe that we will be fully prepared for the period ahead. So this is the financial perspective of '21-'27, but before we can successfully complete and fully exploit our allocation of funds in the period 2014-2014. - 2020. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46169	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, here, stay, remain secretary of state, one respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46170	My dear secretary, here, first I must... I'm really glad that you agreed with a few of us who warned about the capacity problems, and that was the case with our colleague Marko Pavic, who warned us about it, and I'm glad that we all agreed on it and that you'll work on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's definitely necessary. Without it, we won't be able to pay the funds. What's a little confusing to me is that these reports really didn't come in time to the table. It would be of interest to me as a manager to have reports regularly made for me. Why? Because I'm learning something from these numbers and I could pull some corrective action for the next period. If these reports had been completed after six months, for the next six months we might have made different corrective actions and we might have made something better and that would have been three times, and maybe we would have been successful quite differently. So I ask you, what are the corrective actions in the plan besides increasing capacity?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46171	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46172	As I am. Thank you, Your Honor, for your rep, that is, your question. In any case, as I said, so the reports will no longer be late, so this is what we will deliver with a minimum decision and deliver to you on the assembly benches, and I have already mentioned just a little while ago just maybe you haven't noticed, so other than building and strengthening capacity, so not only in their competences and competences and abilities, but in fact in numbers, we are working to speed up the processes, to simplify the procedures so that, in the future since the call was announced, since the award, the decision on financing, payment, was shorter and faster, and that all these things were somehow more fluid or more flowly, here, that is... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46173	Let's not, not from the bench, please. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46174	You'll get a warning. You don't want to get kicked out. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The report also mentions something that I think is very important, and we've talked about it in some way all day, and that's the evaluation, that's the evaluation. Now what I'm interested in is these amounts for the evaluation of the impact of all of these nine axes that have been reduced in fact about 10 times. So the amounts were about a million and a half kuna per axis for the evaluation, or evaluation, to eventually end up at 150 thousand kuna without VAT, and so more or less for all 9 axes it happened means a decrease by 10 times. Now, was it a problem, was it a mistake, that you completely mispredicted how much money you needed, so you cracked it 10 times or actually for this amount, and we're not actually going to get a high-quality evaluation and evaluation because companies that won't be able to make it for this amount?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46175	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46176	Thank you very much. Yes, it is true that the amounts have been reduced, but circumstances have changed. In the Republic of Croatia, therefore, we have an extraordinary situation, as was the earthquake, so certain items simply had to adapt to some new times. If there won't be any interest, or there won't be enough quality companies that will, or companies that will, that won't be able to do it, we'll repeat the procedure and we'll do it with slightly larger amounts, but I doubt it'll be as big as they were.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-21-0.u46177	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9:30 and the first item will be the State of the Republic of Croatia Report for the period 2013-2019. I wish you a pleasant rest of the afternoon. Session interrupted at 15.52 hours.
