ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27178	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now move to a vote in accordance with Article 226(2). First, I'm going to suggest adding the agenda to the sixth session with three new points. These are: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Educational Inspection of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and Proposal for a conclusion on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament of 20 September 2019 adopted by the Act on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the proposed points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda were not available, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 6th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27239	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] Here you go. She's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Then, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, dear colleagues. As you can see, all the places that belong to the SDP in the hall are filled except for where I'm sitting right now. I would like to stress this because we are ready now for an hour, in two hours at a deaf time tomorrow, for the weekend Monday, on Tuesday, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and whenever the parliamentary majority decides to join the vote on the exclusive economic belt, on the Law on the restoration of the affected areas, on all other points of the agenda to respect the minimum of parliamentaryism, which is that the point the opposition put to the debate is also put to the vote. If there is a problem in the parliamentary majority around the HGK, let them leave the session, but agreeing that the points the opposition has put to the vote may invariably delay the vote forever. Business conditions have been met for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to be put to the vote. If at the moment of the vote there are no majority of MPs in the hall, it will only be because there will be no ruling, not that there will be no opposition. If you in the ruling coalition can't agree on the HGK, then that's your problem, and that doesn't have to be the problem of the whole state. If you also have different ideas to propose a different law or a different conclusion, but to block Parliament's work because you within the parliamentary majority cannot agree on one point proposed by the opposition, and this shows a minimum about the first reading, it therefore shows maximum disrespect for the non-parliamentary procedure, practice and primarily for the opposition. This is a clear message to the Croatian public, and also to the president of the Parliament who is not here but can be passed on to him by the vice president. So, SDP representatives and other opposition parties are ready from now on from 13.06, so whenever he requests a vote to come and vote according to the voting plan in which the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce will be the first reading of the proposal of the club of independent lists. But we are not prepared to have the opposition points for which we have asked for the signatures, and in the last term, we have chosen the whole-night parliamentary struggle to enter the Rules of Procedure, to delay them indefinitely. It's today's vote story. It's a story. So, we could have passed the IGP, we could have passed the Earthquake Act, and the HGK could've voted because we needed it under the Rules of Procedure or you could've been colleagues from HDZ and the ruling majority left the session and brought down the quorum so there would be no conditions for voting. Therefore, a clear message to the President of the Parliament just call and we will come to vote on all the points discussed, but on all the points discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27241	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27316	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues are here at the beginning of this week, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic proudly presented the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia from 2020 to 2030. Under this National Development Strategy, which is one of the key documents of this government, Croatia should in 2030 be a secure state, a prosperous state, a state of even development, a country where people will live better and better than they are now. However, in the very conclusion of the National Development Strategy, it is not mentioned whether the state of Croatia will continue to be as corrupt as it is today, or whether the corruption will finally be kept to a minimum. In fact, according to the latest data, Transparency International's Croatia is in the index of perception of corruption in only 67 places with a miserable 47 points of possible 100. The only ones behind us are Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary as regards EU member states, and in front of us are Rwanda, Cuba, Botswana, Bhutan and not to talk about Western European countries. However, it is even more devastating that Croatia in the last 5 years, which is the 5 years of the rule of Andrej Plenkovic and his government on this scale of perception, as far as corruption itself falls from year to year, and is recording the increasing results, namely, of corruption from year to year, is gaining more and more momentum in public space, in public institutions. I fear that this very bad result has also contributed to the current, or former government and the government of Andrej Plenkovic because of the numerous affairs of his ministers, so let's just remember some. Pavo Barisic, minister of science in the previous government, was relieved of alleged plagiarization of scientific work. Martina Dalić Minister of Economy Changed because of the “Hotmail” affair, i.e. for events related to Lex Agrokor. Lovro Kuščević, the minister of the administration, resigned after media pressure, and everything related to suspected land change and wrong property entry into the property card. Goran Maric, the state property minister, resigned due to media pressure related to the purchase of apartments and the problematic... Franciscan monastery. Tomislav Tolusic, the minister of agriculture, was probably removed because of properties that were not in his property card. Gabriela Žalac, minister of regional development and EU funds, was removed because of the Mercedes affair, a car that was in her yard worth 50,000 euros and was not in her property card. Milan Kujundzic, the health minister, was also removed because of numerous properties that were not included in his property card. I would not even like to talk about parliamentary representatives of the ruling majority in this assembly who have frozen their status because of numerous affairs, and some of them have even ended up in detention. About state secretaries and numerous company directors owned by the Republic of Croatia, I would also not spend words here, as many of them also ended up because of arrest affairs. All these people have something in common. All these people were appointed by Andrej Plenkovic to both the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament lists. They're his people. It's his team he plays games with. I'm afraid such a team has just contributed to the catastrophic state and perception of citizens related to corruption in Transparency International. And I am afraid that if Andrej Plenkovic does not get caught up in the true sense of the word with corruption that Croatia will unfortunately be devastated in 2030, rather than the state of prosperity, the state will be completely robbed because of the corrupt actions of the primarily ruling elite, the state with a million inhabitants, because the few Croats left behind will leave our beautiful precisely because of the corrupt activities, because of the setting up of competitions and a number of other things that happen every day in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27317	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives of that Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27422	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would look back a little on what was happening just before in the assembly today, I think this day will mark the history of the Croatian Parliament and will be remembered as a moment when the self-will of most people has not passed. So most have their rights, determines some things, but we won't accept it at all costs. Second, I warn of various manipulations with agendas. We saw that in the last session with the delay of very important points. For example, the work of the judiciary, where the sooner I think it might be more appropriate to discuss such issues, but it was delayed. We have the HGK case now. We respected the procedure. Unfortunately, the debate took place late in the evening. She ended up deep behind midnight, and I think that in itself is a bad message to the Croatian public. But we accepted that, too. I speak for the Homeland Movement now, but it's kind of true for the others. So today we stayed in the Parliament and were ready to vote on these points. However, we have rightly insisted that this point of mandatory membership, however, should come on the agenda for the entrepreneurs. It's important to learn the right lessons from this case. So we have long claimed that Croatia is in some way a captive state. She's not really free. Our institutions are not free, but serve the political elites to staff, to secure places for their similar staffs, etc. Unfortunately, the HGK belongs to that category, and we have seen to what extent the HDZ is with its partners, to what extent they are ready to protect here, so that I do not say an artistic institution, unfortunately, and that is what the Croatian public sees and has to look unfortunately. I think we need to repeat once again that the demands of an entrepreneur to have that membership on a voluntary basis are justified. So such demands are entirely in line with their interests, but I would say with the principle of justice. Why would something be forced? If they're doing their job well, I'm sure people would be willing to be companies to finance their work. However, in this way he cannot continue, and we will continue to do so. But it's not just HGK. We see through the Institute of Competitions, Adjustments, and almost open political corruption. I would say in some ways Croatia is a country where citizens who are not members of the ruling elites are citizens of the second order, unfortunately. They have nothing to report for a variety of job competitions when it's all pre-arranged. Let us remember, for example. a conversation between Minister Beroš and one doctor on the main leading place in a Zagreb hospital. It's all known in advance, they control everything, and today we've seen one spark I'd say one moment where there's a minority in the Parliament, the opposition has fought to the end for its rights. So, I repeat, you could vote no. It's a decision on the ruling one. You will have to accept that responsibility as Mr. Jandrokovic said it was his decision, it was his political responsibility. He'll have to explain it. But I think it's a good thing that this happened, that the Croatian public sees even the Croatian Parliament exercise its own will through the institutions. It has nothing to do with some principles but just showing the muscles the worst way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27493	The next Club of Representatives of the CENTRA and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27494	Dear fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman. There was indeed an important moment in the work of the Croatian Parliament today. When the chairman, Gordan Jandrokovic, said we will vote on memberships in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce when conditions are met, it was actually a message that some of the MPs who support the parliamentary majority will ask "What would you do?" What she did today was a united and agreed opposition sign that some other winds started to blow. Since I took office as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I have noticed that there has been a lot of rape and rape of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure himself have survived many changes. Each one has diminished the role, power and importance of parliamentary deputies, starting with the way parliamentary issues are asked in the current hour. They measure by number, the size of a single assembly club although the right to ask parliamentary questions is the personal right of each representative guaranteed by the Constitution and in no way is bound by the right of a particular club. Very often, by raping the Rules of Procedure, we also had opportunities to see in the conduct of the chairman, I must admit that Gordan Jandrokovic, in this front, when, for example, someone wants to explain the break, when someone wants to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the right to breach the Rules of Procedure is the right of every representative to explain it as he does and as he knows it. And as long as his minutement does not have the right to be interrupted, and very often we have seen both very aggressive and inappropriate and unfounded attacks and attempts to obstruct it. I've seen a whole series of laws that are just a dead letter on paper don't apply in practice. Yesterday I mentioned that the Civil Protection System Act does not foresee the possibility of the existence of two headquarters. It seems to me that no one is even aware that this law says that the state will establish a Civil Protection Fund, although the law is in force for five years, there is no sign of it, no vote. Why am I saying all this? Because what happened today in the Croatian Parliament confirms that there was an awakened self-awareness of MPs, and thus the Croatian Parliament as an institution. And the only awakened self-awareness of representatives within the Croatian Parliament can send a message to our citizens, to our voters, to the civil sector, to civil society organisations, to associations that the time has come for the awakening of self-awakenness within the Croatian people and that will lead to increased turnout and a different outcome in parliamentary and all other elections until then. What we do in the meantime is to free the institutions from the pressure of not the parliamentary majority, but to dominate political parties that are stifled by criticism, self-critism and the personal responsibility of each individual MP or member. Once that happens, we will become the democracy that I wanted to live in, grow up and act in, and I see my mission as building such a democracy so that I can grow up in it and realise my children's potentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27568	The next statement of view is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27569	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian citizens. This is a sad moment in the history of the Croatian Parliament in truth today. It is a sad moment because the opposition took advantage of a sad fact that one MP of the parliamentary majority is seriously ill and is hospitalized. It's an outrageous, immoral and political use of someone's difficult health. Regardless of how this was attempted by MP Bauk to extract the SDPs and the rest of the opposition, the fact remains that they left the assembly knowing of the severe illness of one parliamentary representative and the majority of the assembly, and we heard it earlier in their speeches, claiming that most of them do not have enough representatives because there is not one MP who is seriously ill. The opposition procedure needs to be crackled, and it needs to be exposed to the Croatian public so that everyone knows what happened here. There's another dimension of what happened. Many of those who have been earnestly claiming for years to advocate an exclusive economic belt and allegedly took great care of Croatian fishermen have now left the hall and refused to vote for an exclusive economic belt by leaving this assembly. And the highlight of all is the fact that all opposition left the assembly when it was due to vote on a law that would allow for the restoration of everything that was destroyed in the catastrophic earthquakes in Sisak, Glina, Petrinja and surrounding places. Citizens of this region, citizens of Zagreb County and Zagreb should know that the opposition did not want to vote to rebuild their houses, which is pathetic and sad. Croatian citizens remember these facts and remember them when some hearty stories come to you to tell you that they care about you and that they care about you because they proved that they don't care about you today. The extraction of the fact that they came out because of the point on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce was false, because they could stay and vote for the restoration of the earthquake by destroyed areas and for an exclusive economic belt, and then be against the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but they did not. Remember that, remember what they did to you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27570	Thank you. We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27571	Thank you very much. A colleague, Reiner, injured Article 238, where he presented a series of lies and insults to parliamentarians, where he wanted to take advantage of the illness of a fellow parliamentary representative of the opposition. That's not true. The opposition is ready, MOST is ready to vote, but you have taken responsibility because you have stepped into the protection of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and that the procedure should have put you at the polls because you want to preserve the earrings that destroy Croatian workers Croatian entrepreneurs. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] That's what you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27572	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. The next representative is Marko Milanović litre. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. What? And I'm sorry. Dear Representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27573	I'm not surprised you didn't notice me. So, I've reported a violation of Rule 238. Alinean 6. Representative Željko Reiner degraded and insulted the entire opposition and presented a large number of serious untruths. So, the fact that you lost the quorum today is a colleague of Reiner's. I can't say you've lost your honor, but you've proven you don't have it. Today, the opposition has done only the right, moral and honorable to defend the honor and reputation of this Croatian Parliament institution. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27574	Thank you. And I give you a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marko Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27575	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Article 238. Dear colleague Reiner here has caused a series of lies about what happened today. It is true that responsibility is exclusively for rulings who today did not allow the law on voting for HGK to enter into normal procedures. This today's way of working allows ruling systems to be reliably exploited by Croatian entrepreneurs still operate in our country, which is inadmissible for Croatian sovereigns. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27576	I also give you a warning, for this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27577	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Reiner injured Article 238. He completely twisted everything the opposition did today and said. I'm also fragrant as a doctor and as an advocate that you can say things like that that we've acted like you weren't there enough and that we're maltenes happy that our colleague Tudjman is sick. We express our sincerest wishes to Comrade Tudjman to recover as soon as possible, but you can't twist these things. You're the ones who had the elements of how you were You can make a vote. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27578	And I give you a warning, too, because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the honourable representative of Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27579	Infringement of Article 238 by Agent Reiner. This monstrous claim he made wasn't his. I heard Prime Minister Plenkovic's statement just before. Obviously, that's what the HDZ spin is now designed to cover in public the fact that you've lost most, that you don't have a majority anymore, that you have problems inside your club about supporting or not supporting the proposed law. And now you're turning to a kind of moral scavenger where we're using the disease of a majority advocate we weren't for. is not informed that we're breaking the quorum. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27580	You're getting a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next is Boška Ban Vlahek's distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27581	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 238 of his colleague, Reiner, injured the Rules of Procedure. I agree with my colleague Oreskovic, and his other colleagues, he presented the untrues, he demeans the opposition he has done in this case with honor. We want a quick recovery of Mr. Tudjman, we hope he recovers. However, Tudjman is not the only one who is fighting for life but also half of Croatia and the people who died in the earthquake and their houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27582	And you're aware that this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, and that's why I have to give you a warning too. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the honourable representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27583	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Reiner, injured Article 238. This is amazing to hear from his mouth which uses a sick man, Mr. Tudjman, a calm gentleman whom we all respect in opposition to use to justify our own defeat and move the point about the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Tudjman is in our prayers. We want him to get better as quickly as possible, and what you've done is for every conviction, for every conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27584	You also didn't say a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you're going to have a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27585	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his presentation, Mr. Reiner presented a series of lies. This offended the common sense of not only the representatives of this House, but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Rainer thinks what they would do and how they would do it for us. We didn't even know how many hands he had today, but we knew we wanted to vote on the whole package and we're eager to vote and we're still here. But you don't vote [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27586	It was a replica to you, too. You have a warning. The last violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Željko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27587	The Honorable Vice President was injured in Article 238. Representative Reiner has brought forth a series of lies that offends the opposition and demeans our citizens. Everyone saw what happened. Everyone saw he just didn't want to vote on the Chamber of Commerce. That's a big problem. If you don't want us to help our entrepreneurs, who are we going to help our craftsmen? And at the same time puts in Mr. Tudjman's context for which we all want to recover as soon as possible. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27588	It also warns you, because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27667	The next Club of Representatives is the MOST on behalf of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u27668	Croatian peoples, at this point, we do not have the majority in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government has no support for the majority. At this point, the most important laws that are important to our entrepreneurs are for our workers, such as the mandatory membership of the earrings within the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that destroy our entrepreneurs, who destroy jobs. Today, Jandrokovic has taken the role of President of the Parliament that we do not have the right to vote, i.e. that he will vote when he determines no matter what the MOST proposal has well and thoroughly defended and there has been a good debate during the debate on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the abolition of the parafiscal burden of one of the six-threaders who are on the coat of arms of Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian workers who go to Ireland, Germany and other countries. This is a message for you Croatian peoples, that Croatian MPs are trying to eliminate in the Croatian Parliament. But it happened, I've been in this House for five years, after three months because of the ine, then as part of most of the 12 parliamentary deputies, because of the 12 parliamentary representatives of my colleagues from MOST were extraordinary elections. At this moment when there is no majority in the Croatian Parliament, at this point we from the club MOST, and as I heard from the opposition are ready to wait here all weekend, today wait to vote on, to put the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to the vote. Of course we will support it, to vote on other important laws for our people who have happened in recent months. However, the state's functioning that worked at the club, in Janaf 8, Janafa at Club Slavonska 8 where certain entrepreneurs were privileged to negotiate business with the largest... where there were also people in the judiciary, and in the judiciary the biggest problems are these parafiscal accusations. [[You don't understand.]] Instead of disbursing our entrepreneurs to invest mainly in these 2/3 Croatians that are empty that economic resource we launch and all our potentials we stand on their backs so that they can resupply party arrests. I'm sorry to have to say cancer. I, Nadan Vidosevic, do not know how to observe who created the empire on people entrepreneurs. We're constructive. We had a debate that started at 11:00, ended at 3:00 in the morning, which is embarrassing. Which is why Jandrokovic did, HDZ, Andrej Plenkovic should ask them. But the fact is that there is no immediate withdrawal and the Bridge will not withdraw until the moment until these significant and important laws that have led to the respect of the procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which reduces the rights of parliamentary deputies, puts the agenda on the agenda and that we vote and that we have the opportunity to vote. I expect that the parliamentary representatives of most of this law will also show themselves in this law and will support the abolition of the mandatory payment of membership fees to these bloodstains, the leeches of Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian workers and the creator of everything we have. This house must do and has no right neither Jandroković nor Plenkovic nor anyone dictate to the Croatian Parliament to continue to stand yoke over those who pay us, who feed us bread, and these are entrepreneurs, and workers of Croatia, and our farmers and weights, our fishermen and we must do everything to remove the yoke, 600 parafiscal loads where we are recordrs. And why do we have an empty 2/3 of Croatia? Why do we have 4 million people, less than 4 million people? So only because of these leeches, the bloodstain of Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian workers, a Croatian hard-working peasant who cannot survive in the Republic of Croatia to promote political coalitions and to calculate how to rule and place the yoke on the Croatian people's shoulders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30956	CONTINUATION OF THE SESSION 6. MEETINGS OF THE CROATIAN COOPERATION, CONSERVED ON 29. January 2021. Good afternoon, everyone. Today the first item on the agenda is: Final proposal of the Nature Park Act “Dinara”, second reading, P.Z. No. 6 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. With us is the representative of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Mr Mile Horvat, who will introduce this law in short terms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30957	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. This is the second reading of the final proposal of the Nature Park Law “Dinara”. Right away, I'd like to say that we only have one amendment. The amendment is the Legislative Committee and it is a new technical nature and we accept it as such. So the dinar cross is a phenomenon recognized by the international community that covers a much wider area and is named after Dinara as a key site and named. This is the world's most valuable natural piece of junk with a thickness of deposits that crosses 8 km and highly developed karst fields that unite all karst phenomena. The Dinara area is extremely rich in endemic and endangered species, the habitat is over 1000 plant species, 1/5 Croatian flora is this. Of which 75% of national endemics, cave fauna in this area is relatively poorly expressed but it is assumed that about 50% of all species are endemics. On Dinara is the highest peak of the Republic of Croatia, Sinal. Therefore, the PP ‘Dinara’ will ensure that the original natural values of this area are preserved. Rich georaznolicities, wild flora and fauna, endemics and the whole variety of natural habitats such as the water habitats of the Krka River and Cetina with their tributaries, marsh habitats, rocks and streams, forest and cave habitats, and other natural values derived from the centuries-old tradition of human use of space, semi-natural habitats, indigenous breeds and sorates, and rich, cultural and historical heritage preserved in numerous archaeological sites and cultural and historical sites. So nature park is proposed to declare the Croatian part of the Dinara Mountain, Troglav and Kameshnica, the source part and the upper flow of the river Cetina and karst fields... In addition to Cetina, the Pasha and the Vrtino protection regime shall preserve exceptional multiple natural values with valuable ecological features highlighted by landscape and cultural and historical values, allowing certain activities and actions to be carried out to the extent that their essential characteristics and roles of this space will not be compromised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of a spatial plan of the area of specific characteristics and the governance plan of the PP "Dinara" will in the future regulate the protection, improvement and use and management of these protected areas. It also provides for the establishment of a public institution for the management of the PP "Dinara" within one year of the entry into force of this law. The proposed ‘Dinara’ pair would be the second largest protected area of 63,000 ha after the declaration of the PP ‘Velebit’. The area declared a nature park by this law is located in Split-Dalmatia County with a share of 63% land area and in Sibenik-Knin County with a share of 37% land area, including parts of the following cities, namely Knin, Sinj, Trilj, Vrlika and the municipalities of Biscopy, Civile, Croatia, Kijevo and Island. From 1 May to 1 June 2020 An e-consultation was carried out, and a public insight was carried out from 8 May to 6 June, and a public hearing was held in Knin on 22 May. Compared to our first reading, we had several remarks, mostly all the remarks we accepted and installed in this second reading text, and some unfortunately we had to reject, and then I will go through these most important remarks and our proposal for a solution. Therefore, after considering the report from the meeting of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection held on 4 September 2020 and the first reading, a final draft of the law was prepared, it was sent to the authorities of the State Administration for opinion and all opinions were received without notice. Also in the text of the law in Art. 1. The final draft of the law compared to the draft law in the first reading has been amended in a way that unequivocally states that the nature park includes the Croatian part of the Dinara, Troglav and Kameshnica mountains. Next, in Art. 4. a more precise area of the park is included. The amount of surface area was constructed on two decimals and it was one of the remarks on first reading, on the proposal, the concept of law from first reading. After commenting with the parliamentary debate in the reasoning of the law, the data on the surface shares of the counties and JLS that are covered by PP Dinar were entered in those percentages that I previously mentioned in the introduction. On the note of the Environmental Protection Committee on hydrocarbon research in the future PP Dinar, the ministry was shown not to have been planned in this area. As regards the observations of MP Vesna Vucilović that the joint investigation area of Dinarida – Test 14 that a concession has already been issued, it has been found that this investigative space is not within the area of the proposed PP Dinar. The application of the Environmental Protection Committee as regards the boundaries of the construction areas of the settlement is not accepted since the expression is an art. 4th century of the 5th law in accordance with the body responsible for construction and spatial planning. In fact, the boundaries of the construction areas of the settlements themselves are not determined by this law but can be determined by the spatial plan of the area of special features of the PP Dinar. A meeting was held with representatives of the municipality of Kijevo, a public institution of the Institute for Spatial Planning of Sibenik-Knin County, and the Management Department for Environmental Protection and Communal Affairs of the Sibenik-Knin County, and following that meeting and received a reply from the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction was confirmed once again by the statement of that item proposed in the first reading. Also the proposal of the Environment Protection Committee, which raises the issue of a number of categories of protected area, i.e. The categories of national park are not accepted because in that category, therefore in the category of national park, economic use of natural goods is not allowed, and one of the objectives of the declaration of nature park is to stimulate activities, hence sustainable tourism, parchment, hunting, fishing, recreation, etc. using local populations that are not possible or limited in the national park regime. Furthermore, the very professional basis for protection foresees protection precisely in the category of nature park as the most appropriate. Finally, the proposal for a representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev at the head office of PP Dinar in Kiev was not accepted since the nature park headquarters will be set up by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the establishment of a public institution that will be adopted within a year of the date of entry into force of this law, and it is possible that the public institution has its own facilities. It is noteworthy that the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development for the application and proposal of the Split-Dalmatia County to be the headquarters of the public institution in Vrlika for which it has the support of all JLS from that county. Finally, the state budget also provides funds for the establishment and operation of a public institution and the management of a protected area, so that the adoption of this law can be initiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30958	Thank you. Stay here. You have more replicas. The first replica was requested by Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30959	Thank you very much. Nature park borders did not enter the most important natural resource and it is mostly part of the river Cetina, as well as the rivers and tributaries of the Krka River from Krčić and all others that are very important water resources in the area, so that this respected nature park secretaries look like a pipe. There's a door in the island, so the canal goes up to, to the red ground, and basically the red ground is the hotspot. So did you see what that looked like on the map? The "Red Earth" polygon essentially intersects that park so easily that there will be this shooting in the national park? Well, here's some HV, I'm a Croatian soldier because I've been in Knin for 15 years and I know what that means. So here's a move I'm giving you a suggestion on Krsh-Paden on the wind power plant there move the military polygon you have something to throw at and what to shoot at. and you will save the Croatian people. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30960	Thank you very much. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30961	I thank you, Reverend Bull. So, the park's boundaries have determined the profession after expert expertise, one thing. The second thing, the upper flow of the river Cetina is covered by the scope of nature park, the rest of Cetina, the river Cetina is under Natura 2000. And the third thing, the shape is in many ways differentiated by the military polygon itself, which is subject to another regime or other regulation that is not compatible with this area of nature park.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30962	Thank you. Mr. Ante Bacic. Excuse me, Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30963	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we have the slogan "Zadar is as beautiful as it is clean", so Croatia is beautiful as it is clean and the establishment of the PP "Dinara", I believe that in this coverage of the park, everything will be taken to protect habitats, i.e. flora and fauna, because it is an area that is extremely rich with different plant and animal worlds. I would ask you to speak out here now and in the first reading there were stories about certain oil and gas research going on there and telling us that it really covered the park there won't be. And secondly, how long did you predict that there would be a person employed in the park or that it would give a chance to recover economically and in such a troubled area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30964	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30965	I thank the esteemed representative, so there are a few questions, and I've already answered one in the opening, so there's no research in the area of nature park, so the research premises of Dinara 15, Dinara 16 are not in the plan, so there's not going to be any research. The second thing, precisely because space and desire were opened and the intention to stimulate various activities in the area that would allow the local population to deal with both tourism and hunting and walking and various forms of recreation, is defined by the level of nature park. In the national park, if it were some higher level of protection, it would be significantly more limited.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30966	Thank you. Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30967	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, you have noted in the exhibition and we also see in the materials that the area of the future PP "Dinara" is over 60% in the Split-Dalmatia County, you have also mentioned at the end of comments that you have also received as a ministry and a proposal from the Split-Dalmatia County, with the support of all 55 municipalities and cities related to the future headquarters of the nature park. Now I'm interested in this government regulation, which is next on the wallpaper, next year, which will be the criteria just for the park's headquarters? I think this proposal of the Split-Dalmatia County and I believe that colleagues from Sibenik-Kninska will agree on it, that a city like Vrlika deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30968	Mr. Horvath, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30969	I thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, most of the territorial space belongs to the Split-Dalmatia County and the Government has an obligation within one year of the entry into force of this legal text, this law to adopt a regulation to regulate, determine where public institution headquarters will be, to establish it, to establish public institutions to adopt their implementing and procedural acts, and then we will hang in which direction this type of policy will go. Otherwise, we have a suggestion from the Split-Dalmatia County that the seat could be acceptable in the town of Vrlica. If that's the way it's gonna be, that's what the government's gonna decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30970	Mr. Renata Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30971	Thank you, Your Honor. Secretary of State, tell me, why didn't you put Sharona Lakes in the frame of nature parks when they were naturally owned by them? And we have another question, how do you expect the full function of nature parks, given that the funds provided for in 2021 and 2022 are sufficient only to finance practically 3 basic employees who are needed by this facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30972	Thank you, Mr. Horvat, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30973	I thank you, Your Honor. So, I said the boundaries of nature park were determined by the waist. Now I can't comment on why one part of the space is listed and the other part isn't. There are probably strong arguments of the profession why it is exactly the same, as it is completely legitimate and acceptable question of the esteemed representative of Bulja, why not all the river Cetina is covered but probably there are professional arguments why this one part is covered, so the answer should also be to your question in this direction. As far as the funds are concerned, the state has provided in the budget funds for the start of work and the establishment of a public institution. It is expected that with the very development plan of nature park they will go towards some kind of self-sustainability through various activities, check point and commercialisation of the very tourist component of this space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30974	- Mrs. Crescent. Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30975	Dear secretaries, the Croatian part of Dinar, Troglav and Kameshnica, Cetina and the associated karst fields, are rightly placed to protect themselves by declaring themselves a park of nature. But in order for this declaration not to remain declarative, I appeal to the government as you said, that the establishment of a public institution should take place as soon as possible in order to benefit from the declaration of nature park, design and spend no matter what a year it is. I only sincerely hope that the leadership of the institution will be chosen by the basis of a public tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30976	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30977	Dear MPs, as I understand it, as I understand it, because of the mask question, I hope and even believe that nature park policy will be transparent and clear and that there will be first and foremost chosen people from the profession who will lead this nature park. Everything else would be a very wrong policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30978	- Mrs. Crescent. Porniæ Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30979	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is important to declare... The dinars are just a park of nature because these forms of protection ensure both the protection and sustainability of the use of Dinara through the exercise of permitted activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of them is hiking as a form of recreation for people of different ages, different professions and all is a common love for nature and mountains. The hikers have just explored and disseminated information on the natural beauty and attractiveness of Dinara, so the retention and preservation of mountain trails that allow for access to Dinara and the retention and maintenance of mountaineering homes and shelters, should certainly be the priority of the park management in cooperation with the Croatian mountaineering alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30980	State Secretary, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30981	I thank you, Your Honor. So we expect that all activities that can be commercialised in some way and the types of recreation will be defined in the nature park management plan, etc. which will lead to the level of self-sustainability of the public institution itself. That's why I don't think it's a crucial question where it's going to be the headquarters of the public institution itself, we've foreseen the possibility of setting up outposts per unit of local self-government, thinks it's a key thing that units of local self-government will organise that just by providing that kind of services in their space, they're making revenue from which this public institution will be able to finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30982	Mr. Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30983	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, by declaring the Croatian side of the Dinara Massive and the wider area along the Dinara Nature Park, has its own importance for nature protection. For the local population, however, it is important to have an economic component, economic significance in this part of the Dalmatian Zagora, especially for the municipalities of Kijevo, civilians, bishops and other municipalities within or along the border. So I would beg you one more time, what kind of economic activity will you be able to tell us, within the park of nature?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30984	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30985	So, as in the previous question, Your Honor, I will tell you that the management plan that will be proposed by the administration and probably the profession will say the last word in all of this, we expect that there will be defined activities that will be acceptable and, of course, from the point of view of the profession allowed in the area of nature park and, as we have said, that is tourism, therefore sustainable tourism, hunting, fishing, recreation, hiking, mountaineering and all of these elements that are now related to modern recreational life. So the local self-government will be to organize such content on their territory within the nature park.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30986	Mr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30987	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. All our wealth must be protected... Which and how and coffee it was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 8 national parks, 12 nature parks with Dinara. What economic activity is allowed, we know that. According to the European ecological network and protection Natura 2000 is now in Croatia, cca 39% territory, and Austria 15.3%. No construction is allowed in this area, let's remember in 2006 Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski who refused to double the area. What do you think of building under high standards, villas and holiday houses, not as it was on Plitvices, at high prices that could reflect the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30988	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30989	Dear Representative, therefore you are probably right, in order to reflect this on the economy, but the spatial plan will be defined as a way of building and the possibility of building on a national area of nature park, it will be passed after the adoption of this law and that document will be publicised and it will have every opportunity to look at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30990	- Mrs. Crescent. I'm after Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30991	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State you said that my initiative to be the headquarters of the nature park in Kiev was not accepted, I would say it is not my initiative, it is the initiative of the municipality of Kijevo and Sibenik-Knin County. I would like all of our colleagues and our public to know that this town of Kijevo was inaugurated and initiated in 2006 by the nature of the region, that, meanwhile, with its modest resources along with its county, it had created numerous designs and worked on this. And right now, there are four properties available that can give you, where it can be a seat. I believe that all these parliamentary representatives, colleagues, including our colleagues from the Split-Dalmatia County will be able to appreciate this and the Kijevo municipality has the consent of all other municipalities and cities to have the right seat in our area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30992	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30993	Dear MPs, therefore, in a positive context I commented on your initiative that we could not accept because it would be prejudged in this way, so your proposal, which is positive, would have been accepted immediately in the first reading, would have been defined and prejudged by something which is the government's policy and the authority of the government that will define it through its regulation within a year. These arguments if they're strong enough, they'll probably be acceptable to the government, I can't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30994	- Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30995	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, namely the 4 fields of investigation are designed for the exploration of hydrocarbons. For one concession fee has been issued and that the work and area of the future nature park has been covered, this proves your proposal to exempt the PP “Dinara” area from 2 envisaged areas of investigation. So if someone answered the last concession contest, we'd have a serious problem. Fortunately, they only volunteered for one field of investigation, not all four. So my first reading remark was that it was a very invasive technique and not as we were told on the board that it wasn't invasive, it was an ultrasound, a traveller, this, that, yeah, and that's why I, so I read for this issued concession what was planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30996	Thank you, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30997	Dear MPs, therefore completely, I think I can share your fear that these are invasive techniques, which is why they are excluded and D15 and D16 fields are excluded from the area of nature park, so. There's no doubt that each other wouldn't go at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30998	Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u30999	Thank you, Secretary of State, of course, for supporting this initiative, and there is also an initiative to declare Ivanskica also a park of nature that has been discussed for years. Now that initiative has been launched by a colleague, Habian. Among other things, we did one study, out of 600 respondents from the Varazdin County, 85% supported it, so that's one big percentage. But when we protect something, of course we ask the question of the local population's commotion, will they be able to use that space in the same way? From your presentation, it is clear that they will be able, plus that all of this will be upgraded by the possibility of tourism development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31000	State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31001	I thank you, Your Honor. So on this first part of the question, here, Assistant Minister, Mr. Kraitmeyer is here, he recorded this initiative, recorded it, so we're going to talk about it a little bit, comment on it, and this second part, so it is a professional approach. The analysis is professional, very broad, discussions are very broad precisely because the concept of environmental protection should be put in line with both the population and the moments in which we live, so the matter is not uniform, it is not only going in the direction of environmental protection, but it is being debated integratedly on all elements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31002	And in the end, Mr. Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31003	... Dear Vice-President, Your Honor, as has been said, the government will set up a public institution headquarters within a year and it is possible to set up and outposts. [[Specially enabled.]] [[/Intruder: microphone, microphone. Here we go.]] I am interested in what criteria will be managed in the selection of the headquarters of a public institution, because I believe that this is important and should be taken into account in the development of these undeveloped areas because the establishment of an institution will plan and employ people who are gravitating in this area. Also, as far as the outposts are concerned, I'm wondering if you have any idea how many of them they're going to be and also where they're planning to be stationed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31004	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31005	Dear MPs, so in the legal text, within the legal framework, we gave space and to establish and establish, we did not define where the seat would be, we are fully aware that this should be well evaluated and discussed. The government will probably do that. We don't know where the seat is right now, we haven't even talked about it. For the outposts, if you show interest in local self-government, this law allows them to do so. Therefore, we cannot expect these things to be defined in this law, and I think that they would then prejudge some discussions and perhaps even leave out some arguments. Therefore, these years, the government is likely to approach it quite seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31006	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, you have no more replicas, so far you're free. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First of all in the clubs, she's the first lady. Vesna Vucilovic from the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31007	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, dear secretary of state, dear assistant minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, I can say that I am truly pleased to speak on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club on a law to declare the Nature Park Dinara. Part of it is for reasons that are personal, but mostly because of the fact that it is an extremely important area because of the unique karst area that we have in our homeland of the Republic of Croatia. We all know that thanks to our specific geographical position, our country is rich in many valuable areas of nature. Someone here said it was over 30%, almost 40%, meaning land, which is also in line with the green policies and the EU's Green Plan. So far, 409 areas have been protected in different categories, and PP Dinara will be the 12th Nature Park, and this law will get a truly well-deserved place and a long time ago. So attractive and nature conservation is part of the national wealth of the Republic of Croatia and we really must treat it that way. I must point out that some of the protected areas for their values, representativeness and preservation are recognized as internationally valuable areas, and I am proud to point out that in my Osijek-Baranja County, the PP Kopački Rit is also recognized, and internationally recognised through several conventions. I am pleased that until the second reading, the Ministry respected our proposal and the fundamental objection that the Homeland Movement had in its first reading, which was to investigate areas for hydrocarbon exploration and that the PP Dinar area was excluded from 2 research spaces, the DI-15 and DI-16 polygons. In line with that, I think we will have a consensus in the vote on this legislative proposal. Public institutions for the management of national parks and parks of nature establish the Republic of Croatia by the government regulation, which the respected secretary of state also pointed out. I will join the proposal presented by Vice-President Sanader at a session of the Environmental Protection Committee to be in Vrlica I have nothing against either, here is to be misunderstood by a colleague from Sibenik-Knin County, but regardless of which one or another place really helps revitalize and the rest of the population in those areas, and there is really no objection to that being in a smaller place because the PP Kopački ass has a seat in Kopačev, too, and the PP Papuk has a seat in Voćin and it is a very good practice for these small places that are really demographic, so I won't say it's kind of too hard to say, but in a very bad state. I also hope that in the election of the Director, the main word will have a profession, not a policy, so that we do not have a situation from the past again. I'll give you one from Osijek-Baranja County regarding Director PP Kopački rit who was detained for trading influence, bribery and poaching in the nature park. These are situations that create the mistrust of our residents in the institutions and that are very much to be taken into account. The core activity of a public institution concerns the protection, maintenance and promotion of a protected area with the aim of protecting and preserving the originality of nature, ensuring the uninterrupted nature of processes and the sustainable use of natural resources. Protected areas with their beauty and rich nature usually attract many visitors, so we can rightly say that they also affect the overall tourist potential of a country. PP Dinar plays an important role close to the coast because we know that the share of tourism that goes to the category "Sun and Sea" in Croatia is 85% high and should therefore be expected tourists in summer months and all positive practices, for example. from NP Paklenica should also be applied and implemented in this nature park. Also, the results of research carried out regularly, carried out by the Institute of Tourism, have shown that the main motive for visiting nature parks is to learn about natural beauty, meaning 50% of visitors of just natural beauty point out as the motive of arrival and most impressed by intact and preserved nature. Therefore, the visiting system as part of the total tourist offer is complementary economic activity, it should be invested. It is also possible that tourist facilities are also enriched, help diversify our tourist offer, extend the tourist season because we know that in nature parks, for example in Kopački rit you have in spring the most visitors. In NP Krka and Plitvice it is still in the summer months. It is expected here, however, since it is a mountainous area that throughout the year, mainly in the spring and autumn will be a large number of hikers and lovers of nature. All economic activities that do not endanger the primary objective, which is to protect nature, are welcome in the parks of nature, but rather a respected secretary of state has said what they are. In any case, we all agree that hydrocarbon research is not a complementary activity, and perhaps you should consider it since it covers the whole Dinara that is specific, which is indeed a very valuable area. A concession has been issued for one research area, but there are three remaining, there has been no interest so far, I personally hope it will not be because I think that in this karst area may have the worst consequences. The establishment of the PP Dinara Homeland Movement considers it justified. We will support this bill by doing so more than our main objection that was adopted by the promoters in the first reading. We believe that this legislative proposal is good and we will support it as well as anything that is on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and its inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31008	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31009	Thank you very much. To speak of Dinara, not to compare it with or not to put an equal sign with the Dalmatian Zagora, with the Cetina region, the Knin region is essentially impossible to compare with all these cities and Dinara has the importance not only of these values that it has through its flora and fauna, through a significant violation unique in the dawn, it also has a symbol, a homeland symbol as the most significant mountain that has brought freedom and preparation of operations of ultimate freedom means Croatian peoples, ie. Autonomous Republic of Croatia, which is the preparation of operations for Storm, is a magnificently respected secretary of state-renowned Operation Storm. So that holy mountain in the Croatian people deserves a special law, a nature park, and I would even like it to be a national park. However, the features owned by this area of our Dinara triba also mean to observe in a developmental sense, but in the development sense that there are cattle in the pastures, to be economic development and to be sustainable development of non-carbon research fields as planned and signed on 30 March 2020, this was adopted by the Government and is authorised by the Minister to be research fields. Did you include you escaped inside this strange, I have to criticise this a little, strange-looking PP “Dinare” that looks like a pipe, where the beginning of the pipe in the island, my blue valley, at Sinj, and ends up like a crane on a red earth. I would just say for a little while here, it's not clear to me why Cetina didn't just enter her source, where in this article you describe essentially, in the article of this proposal the decision to protect itself with this law cultural, historical, this, what and other things that were created in this area and we know what she represents, the most beautiful source in the world is Cetina and he has entered into the scope, but there are numerous, cultural features such as the Church of St. Spasa, an old 9th century Croatian church, there we have a flat bridge, which is back together with the head of the municipality, which is from the SDSS and the HDZ's deputy is tearing it apart with the baggers, so don't just bring in acts and in nature act like you're acting. Old Croatian gains, flat bridge collapses. I would only give the greatest importance on the river Cetina at this point where it covers only the spring and part of the river is near Panj, near Panj is this section towards the Lake of Milosevic, according to the Croats. The rest isn't. So the river Cetina, which is the most beautiful river, along the river Krka which also did not enter the tributaries of the river Krka and Krčići did not enter the Knin, nothing came about the water resources in the area, and we know that song sung by Sinj, the best tick, not in Dalmatia but in the world, "from Dinara came clear water in November, so the field developed Cetina". Our relationship to resources is important. The other day, I, not of dear will, of good will, brought but I must, have no other way to point to the nelados and negligentness of the ministries mainly of Croatian waters and unfortunately local waters, that in the river Cetina a complete sewerage from the area of Sinj. No purifier. Complete sewerage. And the agglomeration project we have, it's important to me, that's what protects, water, drinking water. Project of agglomeration and carelessness and carelessness of the project team where Croatia's water enters, the ministry, local water supply, these are problems, and we have to deal with those deadlines because if the agglomeration is not over by 2023, then we are in a huge problem. Isn't it important to us to act on the protection of nature parks? And I'm proud to talk about this because I'm coming from Sinj, and the rest of the Homeland War reminds me here's this winter at Dinara, as a member of IV. Guard brigades and I know what it means to the people of Dinar. I am the child of Dinara, the child of Cetina. My city is Knin where I worked for 13 years, mine is Kievo, mine is Vrlica, but please don't, exclusively and just fight who's going to be the director of that public institution like that. What is the director of NP Krka, where she had to have two party cards and while Ljiljana Zmijanović, a woman who was both a defender and has the best qualifications, was not appointed. Who was a member of the Croatian Army and the Hos in the Homeland War, has the best qualifications not only as a defender, but is important that a person who has two party cards at the time of the HNS and HDZ, so that she would not accidentally make a mistake. So this proposal, along with my amendment, which is not listed here, is that there is no exploitation of the research fields in the proposal, that there is no space in this area, covering the Dinar Park, the Dinar Nature Park. Why? Because last year, the government made a decision to grant concessions, i.e. that there was a concession for research for 3 years, a drilling of hydrocarbons, to explore and a concession for exploitation for 20 years. Where is it, what is it, I don't want to risk it and you didn't mention it in this key article 3 or in any particular article. So we have to protect ourselves with this proposal so that in no case will it be in the park of nature of the exploitation field. And one very important question for me, it's the largest drinking water pool in Europe, it's the drinking lake of Peru. It is artificially, we have had attacks on Lake Peru, directly from the Government of A. Plenković, families of members where the projects of the puppy for the area were pushed, so I am interested in why Peru did not go into the scope that is beautiful and which is the economic potential of the development of the area, and of the hot, and of the kiev and municipalities of Croatia and Sinj and the Island, and Trilja, because of Peru is not covered by this southern side, but on the road somewhere found on the north side, means Peru is not covered by any work. This announcement of the most prospective area from Savudrija to Prevlaka is the Cetin region and the Dalmatian Zagora. In addition to this declaration of nature park as a new resource that can be on the tourist map and economic recovery of this area, it can be used, we need projects that have been neglected. We need joints on the highway of these areas such as Križice-Kukuzovac-Sinj and the Cetin area that is larger than Međimurje County. So the Cetina landscape is bigger than Međimurje County. When we add Kijevo, Knin, when we add it, it's a huge area, but we don't have dates on the highway. Believe me, this is an area if we protect drinking water, only from the river Cetina drinks in a touristic time when tourism, half a million people, is minimal if not a million people. So these are the resources we have. We have a resource that has now appeared on the stock market recently as well as oil, water is on the world market. What good do we have from this point forward besides giving a concession to the river Cetina to a foreign investor who pays us 5,000 kuna? Five thousand kunas a month, that's what I said, they drink two cows that have their own O.P.G., two cows drink more. And that people deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31010	Thank you. Now, sir, I'm sorry, before I forgot, Mr. Miro Bulj spoke in front of the Bridge Representatives' Club, I noticed that, I apologize. I didn't say outside the club. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31011	Your Honor, Vice President, Secretary of State Horvat, Mr... We're talking about declaring a park of nature "Dinara". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If I'm not mistaken, we have 8 national parks in Croatia, this would be the 12th Nature Park, but I might start my presentation here with a story about the Sibenik-Knin County because most of this nature park, most of it, is located in Sibenik-Knin County. Croatia is located on the Mediterranean, the Mediterranean, means a country in the middle of the world and in the middle of the Mediterranean is the Adriatic Sea. In the middle, take a look at the map. And in the middle of the Adriatic Sea, there is a Sibenik-Knin County right in the middle. And if you look at this Sibenik-Knin County, it's really special, here I am going to be subjective since I come from that county, and it has the most islands, islets and rocks of all the regions in the Mediterranean. Some say close to 300, some count to 256. She has even two national parks, has NP Kornati and has NP Krka. So far she has had two nature parks in part and this is PP Velebit, that southern part and part of PP Vransko lake. There are also 9 other protected sites, 7 in the category of significant landscape and two in the category of monument of nature. And now they're going to get another nature park and it's a PP Dinara, deserved. Deserved because Dinara really has 1001 arguments to protect herself. If we look at only the ecological network in Dinara space, we'll see both the numerous properties and habitats that were there before, I hope that later and only by protecting there means the ecological network with one stronger protection, we'll do well and that's good. I commend this decision. When we talk about this space, first I will say some technical things that must be known, so far there were two other protected landscapes in the area, it is a monument of nature that is a source of Cetina and a significant landscape of Krčić. At this point, they cease to exist in this decision, so they are no longer under the authority of the public institution of the nature of Sibenik-Knin County but are coming under the park of nature, which is good, with the fact that there is a dispensation of the public institution county, there is a smaller scope of work and can be a little more directed at the significant landscape of Cikola etc. What else is changing here? Here through the ecological networks, here I have to mention the highly developed speleological, so a lot of speleological objects, here we have the longest and deepest speleological objects in the county, some of which are five and more kilometers long as the cave of Kotlusa, for example. And it's good to have someone take care of those facilities. When we talk about the ecological network, there's an interesting locality here, and here I have to mention it here, and it's a dry field, and there's a Dalmatian lice. The Dalamtin necklace may not know what it is, a butterfly. One butterfly that is protected and inhabited in the dry field, unfortunately, the last studies have shown that it is gone, I hope that if we take more care of the space, it will come back. Now let's talk about the problems of this space. First, I'm going to say a few things that I already see as a potential problem. For something to be declared, it's supposed to be an expert basis, right? There's been some kind of professional work done here. Unfortunately, my experience since I worked in this sector is such that these professional bases are mostly written only to be written. It's just that they're written. Another document that is never adopted, which is a regulation on internal order, tomorrow a public institution that will manage this space, will simply not know what powers are and all users of this space will not know what to do, what not to do. The Act on the Protection of Nature does not define this and I responsibly claim that no criminal and criminal provision under the Nature Protection Act has been implemented. Dear Secretary of State, co-worker, none. So that law doesn't work. You can't punish anyone under the Nature Protection Act. That's what the fact is. So here's what I'm encouraging you to do as soon as possible with the internal order rule and to finally start doing it. One question that will be asked is the headquarters of the facility. I'll say two logical choices because they're really logical choices, it's the city of Knin, of course, but I'll say a village right next to Knin, right next to this space or if it's not in this area, it's a settlement of Kievo. Why Kieva? Here I am, and I suggest that because Kijevo earned it through everything that lived in the Homeland War and geographically is in the middle of this space and it would make sense to place the headquarters of a public institution there, to somehow make up for this settlement for his sacrifice in the Homeland War, even though I will say, and Knin is the logical place to house a public institution. Furthermore, here is another problem that is extremely important and that is becoming less and less extensive livestock. Here, first of all, I mean shepherding and goatmaking. The biodiversity comes to you, probably here's a colleague from the ministry they know, the most actually from the lawns, the grasslands when you have a forest, you have a monoculture, and when you have a lawn, you have biodiversity. Therefore, in this area, especially must be encouraged means extensive livestock, goats and sheep farming in any way and this must be one of the priorities of the work of this public institution. The other thing is very important. Unfortunately, there are several exploitation fields of stone in this space. I mean, I'm gonna be there anyway, cutting it off with a scalpel, I don't think it should be in this space, although some activities like this can be in the parks of nature, all that there is, it has to be moved, closed, rescheduled, it just doesn't fit. What else do you say? So, if you are able to visit this area, of course go to the highest peak of Dinara, the highest Croatian peak of 1831 m, the top of Dinara, some call it Sinjal, it does not matter, but go necessarily to a clan located on the north-west side of Dinara, the Clan Surdup is called. The hunters there know how to go, and then you'll see a landscape that looks like the Alps, so a landscape is almost unreal, you have a tower where any part of the Lord of the Rings could be recorded, and then when you go around those gorges, gobbles on Dinara, like Surdup, you'll understand why Dinara has to be a nature park, why Dinara has to worry about. But I'm not gonna end up in a nice tone, I'm gonna end up being a little critical. We had a monument of nature hot Cetina, unfortunately, that space was extremely devastated, along with the hot Cetina itself, we have 10 meters of them building houses, here I am now reporting it to the Ministry, let it react, we have an illegal water supply from Vukovica source for a factory that fills the water there. I'm just officially reporting, so state secretaries and assistant minister, so here are two problems, so illegal construction on the hot Cetina, there are more illegal water stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31012	Thank you, too. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Anja Chimpraga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31013	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Secretary of State, Honorable fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The declaration of the PP Dinar brings new values to the people of that region and I hope, as we see from the debate, that we all have a unique position. The SDSS representative club will support the proposed law, of course. After more than 10 years of PP Dinar's efforts will be formally and legally declared as such right here in the Parliament. great news for locals, adventurers, hikers and the entire financial and social development of both Dalmatia and the entire Republic of Croatia. We have repeated the boundaries and scope of nature park several times, a total of almost 63,000 ha in the fields of Sibenik-Kninska and Split-Dalmatia County. The protection of the area aims to preserve the nature of the features of the particular area. In the category of nature park, this means encouraging the use of space in a traditional way in accordance with the need to preserve its most valuable parts for the future. For this reason, management of protected areas is a complex and active process within which it is necessary to monitor all activities in this area continuously and, of course, adapt them to a new state of origin and knowledge as necessary. The protection of this area in the nature park category potentially has positive consequences for both the population and the local economy as a whole, primarily through the revitalisation of extensive livestock and other activities and through the new possibility of using this space. The wind in the back should be given to those who are thinking about livestock, beekeeping, medicinal herbs because the market is just crying out for such quality domestic products. By declaring nature parks, this area will be given an opportunity to develop in line with the conservation of natural and cultural values and protection in the category of nature parks, will make it significantly easier for the EU Structural Funds to promote activities in line with the objectives of conservation and to ensure that the environment is well maintained. And now, about those of whom it all started, the first study was made in 2007. In 2010 the municipalities of Kijevo, Sibenik-Knin County and the municipalities of Kijevo also co-financed the development of a professional basis for the protection of Dinara, which the State Institute for Nature Protection developed and thus expressed a clear view on the protection of this very important area for all of us. The Dinara Nature Park aims to protect the Dinarian pastures that have been created by the influence of man and the local population for centuries. In the future, this should be encouraged, and therefore the local population would have no limitations. As stated by the government regulation, the headquarters of the Nature Park Dinar will be determined, but it is important to highlight the efforts of the municipality of Kiljevo, the City of Knin and the Sibenik-Knin County, of which the initiative was launched, given that the highest peak of Dinara Sinjal is located in the mentioned area as well as the sources of the Krka and Cetina River. They recognized all the good news of the park, conducted a whole series of research, and equipped part of the area with infrastructure. The Sibenik-Knin County has created excellent personnel in nature protection and will move on. The establishment needs to be established as soon as possible to contribute to better management of the future nature park, but this would contribute to a stronger development of both Kiev and Vrlika, Civilians, Sinj, Knin and other places. Recently, HRT contributed to the last shepherds on the slopes of Dinara, Angel of Vrpolje and Peter of Polaca, I hope dear colleagues will not be the last. Dinara is a mountain that lives with man, a mountain that has fed and raised many generations, and that is why I am happy that we can support and declare the Nature Park Dinara because that population in that area really deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31014	Thank you, too. Now, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mrs. Renata Sablar Dračevac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31015	Good afternoon. Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. So I have already stressed that we in the SDP support every protection of nature and it is good to protect our resources. Of course, while ruling, they considered the observations and felt that the level of the national park was too large for this area and that it would not be protected in this way. However, it should be pointed out that almost all the remarks, even if those we made in the previous reading were not taken into account, so I will repeat. It is very important for citizens to be established in one of the smaller environments that would give added value to the lives of these directors and other employees in that environment would raise the level of life in that environment. The EU is a Union of citizens, and the administration in Brussels is important that the quality of life grows in the most remote and inaccessible parts of the Republic of Croatia. You're certainly taking the lead, somewhere I think the ruling has already decided on the Vrlika, but it's certainly Ki's thing to think about. It's a good thing the HDZ coalition partner is up for it, so it's possible that you'll still get what you asked for from Sibenik-Knin County. You've put the funds you're going to need at the public hearing. So, the initial financial framework is still unrealistic, and now we see that the institutions will not work in 2021, or 2020, and the projected funds have no room for nature protection itself, so I will repeat. When setting up an institution, three main persons, director, professional head and head of nature must be employed. Their gross salary would be about 300,000 kuna, and then for everything else, there remains very, very little money. It is obvious that the full functioning of this park cannot be expected or possibly expected in 2023, regardless of the response of the secretary of state who said that they would have to be filled with the funds themselves. Not at first, so for the first three, four years, the state needs to finance it while things get into some kind of frame. When the institution of the staff, when it assumes its basic function of the means that the Republic of Croatia will be significantly larger, it must be made clear, but you refuse to say it again. You only changed from the first reading quote, "these other natural values derived from the centuries-old tradition of using space". You realized that natural values do not come from the use of space but from the use of space, they come from cultural values. This article. 4th century 5th still uses the formulations I can, and it always opens up the possibility of being able to do it one way or another. Construction within the nature park is not prohibited, so I don't think it's necessary to cross the borders if the expert basis said that some part should be part of the nature park then it should be regulated immediately by law. Why end it later? So that's where you put the possibility of later recasting. We asked you to give us a map of 1:300,000 which is too rough, for example. 1999. The declared North Velebit National Park used a map of 1:100,000 and we remained at 1:300,000. You did not list representatives of the interested public if they were involved in the manufacturing process or in the work of the expert working group, and they were probably not. Sharena Lakes, again, did not even consider what the interested public said that Charena Lakes are involved in the nature park system because it is part of the ecological network and we believe that adequate management will prevent the distortion of its value, and adequate management would just be to enter the Nature Park Dinara. And the ecological network doesn't rule out the nature park of each other. If something is put into the ecological network then it has some natural value, it would be desirable to be within the boundaries of the nature park. Of course it's not included. And then there was a lot of talk in the session last time about pockets, and really when you look at that card, it's full of pockets, it could have been different, and especially by including these parts that were set out in my first part of the exposure. And what to say now, everything we highlighted as a problem in the last debate the promoter did not hear. I have noticed not only in this example, but unfortunately, in other cases, the relationship of the motionors or the Government towards Parliament is devastating and humiliating. You do not provide us with the documents if we seek them and the acts we need in order to hold a debate between the members of certain committees. Parliament's function in my opinion has been seriously disrupted and has only been kept in shape, the content is no longer available. Personally, how angry I am about this, or my expectations, were obviously too great to be ruling, or because last time, the secretary was going to be pretty nody about everything I've been saying, I expected something to be heard, that something would change, that something would be different in the new proposal. Personally, I'd rather vote against, but this is good, it's good for the citizens and without that personal thought, I'll personally vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31016	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Josip Begonja will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31017	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us today is the government's final proposal of the Nature Park Law Dinara. Introductoryly, I would like to remind you that during the first debate of the proposed law in question, certain questions or better expressed dilemmas were raised both by part of the parliamentary committees, as well as parts of the representatives in connection with nature protection in the context of the future Nature Park Dinar, which were primarily related to the approval of concessions for oil and gas research and concessions for oil and gas exploitation. We have been informed by the proposer’s representatives or, in addition, by the Agency for Hydrocarbons, that the concession is not given to anyone, and neither will hydrocarbon research be carried out in future time within the area of nature parks. We at the HDZ Club have also pointed out that preserving the nature and human environment is the highest value of every community in the first reading of the law in question. As well as the Nature Protection Act, as well as the Nature Protection Act, the basic nature protection document setting out the long-term objectives and guidelines for the conservation of biodiversity and georaznolicity as well as the way in which the protection itself is implemented are governed by the strategy and the Action Plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia, which is still 2017. It also adopted strategic objectives that need to be directed at all activities and activities in the field of nature protection. On the trail of such efforts is an unequivocal interest on the one side of the Republic of Croatia, but we must highlight the interest of local and regional self-government to declare the nature of the Croatian part of the Dinar masse, then Croatian side of Troglav and Kameshnica, and the source and upper river Cetina and karst fields along the Cetina, Croatia, Paška and Vrličko fields. And as already stated here, the total is about cca 63,000 hectares and after Nature Park Velebit it will be our largest nature park in the Republic of Croatia and will be the second in a row. The fundamental question is, what does the social community get by passing this law? We believe it is important to point out from one side that the proposed category of nature protection will be preserved on one side of the natural value of this region, rich georazolicity, wild flora and fauna species, over 70 species of endemic species, will also be preserved a historical and culturally rich heritage at numerous archaeological sites, on numerous historical sites. On the other hand, what is particularly important is for the local population living in these areas within the borders or along the border of the future park where they will be allowed and determined as we have heard from the promoters, economic, primarily traditional activities that will not compromise the natural characteristics and role of this protected area. So, this law considers how to carry out these permitted economic activities, to find the best solutions in the use of natural resources, but also to strengthen tourism and educational content in this space. Certainly, the local population will have a special interest in declaring the dinara masses and its wider area by nature park and that part belonging to the two counties, Split-Dalmatia, but also to the Sibenik-Knin County. Only the passing of this law will normably not arrange everything so that there are still a whole series of shops ahead of us, especially those that are important for the park to take effect. In doing so, we consider the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish, within one year of the date of the declaration of this law, its entry into force, a public institution for the management of the nature park, to ensure the means of employment of workers who will work within that institution and thus create basic assumptions for ensuring adequate supervision of the nature park itself. It is also necessary to settle other issues such as the headquarters of the institution, but also to create assumptions for the adoption of spatial-planned documentation for this protected area, which will settle the question of the park's borders, which is understoodly the case for the Kijevo municipality, because it has started in 2007, not only with the initiative, but from its modest budget in co-financing of a particular part of the necessary documentation. Of course, it is also necessary to plan the management of the nature park, which is all in order to better protect the park, better use and management of the park itself. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, as it is also already pointed out, with 8 national parks and 11 protected nature parks so far, I am convinced that by consensus we will make a unanimous decision on the establishment of 12. The Park of Nature Dinara and, in this sense, the HDZ Representatives Club will support Vladin's Final Proposal for the Law on the Announcing of the Nature Park Dinar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31018	Thank you, too. In front of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, Mrs. GLAS will speak. Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31019	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Let me have this debate on behalf of the club sort of debate with three aspects. The first aspect is formal, the second aspect is professional, and the third aspect is small and political. First formally, so it's about the 12th Nature Park which I'm sure will be declared. What we need to take care of is a word of approximately 63 acres. It's a bigger area than some countries, not those, the kind that were just in the puzzles, some others, and some that meant something, but I won't bother you with it or strangle you. It stretches in the two counties, therefore, in the area, i.e. stretches, in the area of Split-Dalmatia County and in the area of Sibenik-Kninska and is well, and lists the units of local self-government that will be partially located in the area of nature park, which are the cities of Knin, Sinj, Trilj, Vrlik and municipalities of Biscopy, Civilians, Croatia, Kijevo and Otok. Why does it matter? It is important because now part of these municipalities, or cities, will be located in the area of nature parks. I remember for a long time, I'm dealing with spatial planning in one way or another, my entire working life, and about, let me tell you what it looked like when the greater declaration of nature parks in the area of the Republic of Croatia began. Because of ignorance, because of inexperience, because of a number of other things the citizens were terribly opposed because they had a feeling when some space was declared a park of nature, they said, you put us in a reservation. We're second-class citizens. We'll be like in the window and all of Europe will come looking at us. We don't have a chance for development or for the future, and it's always good to repeat what nature's park actually is. It is a natural or partly cultured area of biodiversity or geo-roastality with valuable ecological, landscape and cultural and historical values. This is the basis why some state decides to declare its one space in the category of nature park, of course, the largest category is national park. Similarly, in nature parks, but also in national parks, this is not the subject of economic and other activities and procedures which do not endanger their characteristics. That's something to take care of. Similarly, it says optimal solutions must be between economic use, so as not to disrupt natural and cultural values. Over time, it has indeed proved that living and dealing with economic activities in the nature park can be an advantage, not a flaw. It may be possible to apply to different EU funds, that Croatia has some advantages to be used. If you have the advantage, then you really need to take advantage of it. If you have these diverse natural values, my people, us at this point, at this point 4 million. We will see after the census how many of us are, and it is the task of all of us to provide clear, better and more defined conditions for economic activity and living conditions. Nature's Park, when it's declared, and the way it starts to work is an advantage. I've spoken to him now, I'm looking at a parliamentary representative, and I've talked to him about it so little, not a flaw, and that's how it's supposed to be recognized. There are economic activities that can be an advantage. You can build in a park of nature, you can deal with tourism in a park of nature. You can do it all under more detailed conditions. Which we all, which is actually interested in who deals, which is an interest to all of us. Therefore, the nature park can indeed be an advantage and can be a driver for the development of one part of Croatia. I often use this pay phone to tell some experience, I mean, somebody's gonna hear them, so one day they're gonna use them. I was, I'm not even gonna say how many years ago, but in this century in Bavaria. And we went there, then in terms of change of regulation related to nature protection, we translated it from English and so we translated nature back from natural. What happened to Bavaria? What didn't happen to us for a variety of reasons, Bavaria once moved all its space, actually started to use it economically, even economically used forests, and everything it could turn into agriculture, it turned agriculture. And there was a problem with the aspect and the protection of the environment and everything else, and they decided, like the state, they have the possibility, they also have the financial means, to give people compensation not to deal with agriculture and to receive compensation like that, what was the income of that area. To leave the surface to return to nature, it was called natural then. I, of course, took us there to see some bar they managed to bring back after a number of years, in that bar there were frogs and then this one, they led us to listen here, how Bavaria managed to get the frogs back and there, now there are frogs and then I said, let's make a deal, you, we'll guard nature, and you just give us what we need to protect nature. Of course I was joking. But what I mean seriously is, this is a Croatian advantage, if the Croatian advantage is to have such spaces, then you need to take care of these areas, you need to make sure they don't break down, but you can keep as much space as you want. Space doesn't have the ability to develop without people. And you need to give people the opportunity to live, not only in that space, and to act economically. That's why I really recognize this as potential for both the part and not just in terms of tourism, we just recognize it in terms of tourism. Let's go back to some old economic activities. Let's not recognize it and put it on shows like here, examples, but really, that something might happen. What there are are things that are extremely important. There is first and basic, immediately work, I suppose it is working, but continue to do professional bases that will be the basis for a document of spatial editing. Without these professional bases, there is no spatial plan. These professional bases should be done well, quality, of course and geodetically again and then go with a spatial plan because when you have a management plan, and you have no background in the spatial plan, then it's a bad management plan. So that's the thing that needs to be done parallelly. To have a quality management plan, to create a spatial plan that will be in the public debate, to look at building areas that are within the nature park, which are built, which are not built, therefore, to see what the potentials are, never forget, so when the processes of environmental impact assessment started at all, then we always look at these processes to protect the worms, protect the bats, protect the birds, we have to protect them all. We must protect space for future generations, but we always forget man. Without the man who will be it will turn into something else because this is, a declaration of nature park because of its values. If there's nothing going to happen there, he's not gonna be that nature park anymore, there's gonna be something else, but I'm not gonna strangle you right now. So, what needs to be done is to make sure that this nature park really works, you have to come up with a spatial plan. And of course, for the end, you know, the siren call is always stronger when you deal with politics. In public space, we had a chance to hear from a parliamentary representative who promised, so here, you can also be the director of nature park. One another. Here, of course, after being declared, I have no doubt, the area of nature park, within a year must be a public institution and at the head of a public institution, first whoever goes, goes v.d. Director. I ask nicely one who will be in power at that moment, those who are in power after the local elections in two counties, one county is Split-Dalmatia, and the other is Sibenik-Kninska, do not make the director, v.d.. The director of this nature park is a political procedure. What we are tasked with is that at the head of such institutions, they are the most capable, the most qualified, the most educated. It's our job, and it's our role, if we want to preserve both the state and its values. Don't make it a political procedure again the way we've been, or a political trade or whatever you want to call it, it's never good, that someone who's in charge of such an institution And such a protected one [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that he's in public space, and he's calling the papers for some other stuff. [[Thank you very much.]] It would be good to hear about him because of his values. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31020	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31021	As I said, Dinara as a mountain, as an endemic karst in the world, this area which is not only in this sense that we spoke here as significant, it was significant, it is sacred mountain for the Croatian people. The most important thing for the freedom of operation in the Homeland War and the key to victory was Dinara. In this area that is 63,000 hectares, we are talking about a huge area where we have 2 counties and I am sad to hear how Sibenik-Knin County and my Split-Dalmatia County are arguing about who will be the manager or in which town. This is the case for you that our fellow MP just before the colleague mentioned that the gigs, buying most of the coalitions by naming v.d. or directors like the Medvednica case also park nature. Don't play with Dinara and us from that area. Don't play. The most important thing for me here is to protect Zasako and I will give the amendment, I absolutely accept the declaration of the Nature Park Dinara, which is why only part of the source of Cetina came in, the source and the part significant where we have the old Croatian Church of St. Rescue, we have a flat bridge that you're tearing down, and in that municipality.../incomprehensible/... is together in power and party member i.e. colleague of State Secretary Horvat SDSS and HDZ, do not destroy that value. To declare nature park, while HDZ and the SDSS in the coalition are destroying the most important areas. The greatest importance of this declaration is the preservation of flora and fauna, and of course water potentials, water. I will note that no part of the river Krka, the tributary of Krčić, has entered into Knin, any other river Krka. The importance of Cetina for the Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia is enormous as a potential of water, and it is good that we declare the nature park, but I continue to note that the project from the EU such as agglomerations are essentially being threatened, the end of the budget period comes, the resources are provided, and from Sinj and the surrounding area complete sewerage affects the river Cetina, a clear, clean river Cetina. And the National Nature Park of this Nature Park Dinara we have a military range of Red Earth, so look at the map of what it looks like to the border of Bosnia is simply cut across the national park. Well, I was, I mean, my biggest day was when I was from the direction of Grahov with my comrades headed towards Knin and came to the Red Land and we saw Knin, but if we want to declare it a nature park then throw a military polygon into Padjane for example. There is a wind power plant with an army of what to target, the greatest damage and shame of the Croatian people. These are those wind power plants that I've been talking about for 5 years, and Nature Park Dinara is the potential and development of a new potential for the development of that area. And the most prospective area in the Republic of Croatia currently with several projects with the announcement of this national, in the declaration of Nature Park Dinara is the cetin area, the hinterland of Split, my Sinj, the cetin end, but none of the key projects such as the fast road Kukozovac-Krizice for the Chetin region, or Drniš-Knin fast road on the highway, these are projects that are significant, and nature park is what will give extra value but not in a way that encourages pasture where we must encourage livestock, tourism, domestic production, domestic seeds that you want to autochtonically abolish, in this area we do not give incentives in that area of the hectare and hectare for those who do not know how many cows have tits. I've done it 100 times and I'll do it one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31022	Thank you very much. You've got Mr. Skoru's vice president looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Radin. Dear colleague Bulj, the Homeland Movement will, of course, as I believe, and most in this assembly welcome the announcement of the Nature Park Dinara is something that is on the trail of the policy that we represent. We are particularly pleased with the initiative to place the seat of that national park in Vrlica, but we are all witnessing that in the appointment of people who run such institutions, political similarity is mostly more important than expertise. You come from a place where there were such problems when it comes to the Krka National Park and you remember everyone, and perhaps it is a good time to remind the Croatian public how many buryings there have been about making it impossible for one professional person to prevent the Croatian defender from running that national park, so here I don't know what you think is going to happen to this national park and how it will be run?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31024	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31025	We see here a conflict arises between who will be arrested and where what will be between the Split-Dalmatia County and HDZ and the Sibenik-Knin HDZ, these divisions are unseen. But the fact is that national parks and parks of nature, and Krka National Park is a symbol of the employment and violation of the law in the Republic of Croatia where Ljiljana Zmijanović is a Croatian defender of the Croatian Army and Hos in the Homeland War on purpose. With worse criteria, a person with two party cards was named, that was more important, she had two, that's what we say when we play the cards with HNS and HDZ. And Ljiljana Zmijanović, as a Croatian defender, has been humiliated and all Croatian defenders who have defended both the territory of Knin and Dinara of the Holy Mountain for the Croatian people. And that's what's wrong with all the laws, which is more important to them who's going to who. Incarcerated, and whether it will be in Sinj, will it be in Kiev [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Is it going to be in Vrlica that it shouldn't be at all [[Thank you very much.]] be a problem. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31026	Now it's Mr. Damir Habian's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31027	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, as well as in the debate during the first reading of this legislative proposal, I would firstly like to commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide, therefore, to declare the area of the Dinara mountain range a park of opportunity. When we had the opportunity to hear it was indeed a large range of nearly 63,000 hectares with over 1,000 plant and 20 endemic animal species. We all remember, unfortunately, last year in the April of that great fire on Dinar, which thanks to the great efforts and firefighters, and also the HGS was extinguished, but it is certain that this actual declaration of this nature park would make me safe and less aware of the degree of protection this park will receive. According to data from the competent ministry, protected areas today cover 8.5% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia and 12.3% of land territory 1.95% of the territorial sea, while the area is preceded by nature parks with almost 5%, while 1% refers to national parks. However, if we look at the territorial coverage of national parks and nature parks, then it is evident that they are all located in the area along the Adriatic coast. As far as nature parks are concerned, the northernmost part is Medvednica Nature Park, while in the area of the 3rd constituency I come from, therefore there is not a single nature park in the area of Varazdinska, Međimurje and Krapina-Zagorje County. In view of the above, during my debate on this legislative proposal in the first reading, I initiated that the area of Ivanščica, Strahinjčica, Ravna Gora and Maceljsko Gorje in the future period of nature park. Namely, the declaration of the nature park for that area would contribute not only to the conservation of biodiversity of that area but to further ensure the sustainability of the unique landscape elements and cultural heritage of that area. Following this, I believe that this area is of exceptional tourist and educational potential, which would ultimately result in the possibility of improving the living standard of the local population through the development of organic production, hence products, branding of local products, providing tourism services and easier safe absorption of EU funds. I also note that one professional basis for the Croatian Zagorje regional park was already created by the State Nature Protection Institute, and I am sure that, with fewer adjustments relating to the coverage of the area or reduction of the same area, it could be a starting point for the launch of the first nature park procedure in the northern part of Croatia. In view of the facts mentioned in the current expert basis, and it follows that the conditions laid down in the Nature Protection Act are met in view of the positive public reaction, as well as the support of the local community after the meeting in the competent ministry, as well as the support of parliamentary representatives from the 3rd constituency, as well as the mayor and chief of units of local self-government covering that particular area, I decided to hand over this written initiative for the second week, and I expect that the same procedure of declaring the area of nature park will begin. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Stričak, my colleague Natalija Martičevic, my colleague Štromaru, my colleague Antolic Vuporić, Pavić, Hajdas Doncic and, of course, the mayors of the two largest cities in the area, as well as Jasenka Augustan Pentek Mayors of Zlatar, as well as the mayor of Ivanac, Mr Batinić. The mayors of these counties also supported Mr. Cacic and Mr. Kolar. Here I truly believe that this is not a political issue, that this is the interest of all residents of the 3rd constituency and I hope that by the end of this 10 term we will be able to discuss here and finally vote and declare the nature park Ivanščica, Strahinjce, Ravna gora and Maceljski gora. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31028	Thank you, too. You have several replicas, the first line was sought by Ms. Nikolina Baradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31029	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Habian, here we have heard in your debate that there is great support for the people of Varazdin County and the Krapina-Zagorian County for this initiative. However, there is certainly a small number of people who fear certain restrictions that carry with them the declaration of nature park. So my question is, can you tell if anything will change for the local population?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31030	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31031	Thank you very much. I think that in his replica, my colleague Strick mentioned 85% of this support to this initiative, I will correct it more precisely 86.5%, therefore indeed a large number of people of this Varazdine and Krapina-Zagorje County support this initiative. As regards the second part of your question, which concerns the question of the potential fear of the local population, then it should be pointed out that later in some future development, therefore, the future Internal Order will clearly attribute to the way in which it actually limits, for example, certain activities that may interest certain people, therefore, as regards hunting, as regards the forest, as regards fishing. However, what has already been said here in the debate, and the Nature Protection Act itself makes it very clear that existing economic activities or other activities that do not affect the landscape are definitely staying, but also the local population that is covered by this area can, for example, continue to lead their cattle to the pasture, can use their properties uninterrupted, etc., therefore it is necessary to communicate as much with this population as possible, in fact, that this concern that exists is moving away.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31032	Thank you. Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic, next.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31033	Dear Vice President, it is very nice to be in the assembly right now, where I see that a great consensus is being reached for Dinara, and it seems to me that you are on the best track to reach a consensus for Ivanstić. As a longtime hiker, I often stayed there, and often I could see for myself the beauty of that beautiful part of our beautiful. So once again, I congratulate you on this initiative, and when it is voted, you will certainly have my vote, and I think a lot of people sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31034	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31035	Thank you very much. I thank you, therefore, for this support and for this comment, I would say especially at this time Covida, when people are more limited to looking for a way out and going actually into the mountains, more than ever, and there is a need to protect what we have and these natural beauty, and it was just perhaps one of the ideas to start with this initiative, and I don't think it would be too bad to think when we solve this issue at the assembly end of this assembly to organize maybe a joint trip so that others can convince themselves that indeed Ivanščica is, and also the other parts of Strahinjčica, Straight Mountain and Maceljska mountain are something that we really have to guard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31036	Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31037	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Habian, here's the subject of Dinara today, but I'm glad you touched some other similar sites. It is precisely Ivanščica mountain specific because it is located in a densely populated area, there is Varazdin, close to Zagreb, thereby attracting a larger number of visitors, and it is relatively accessible by configuration of the terrain and brings with it crowds and the use of means of transport wherever possible, garbage, unpreparedness for walking on such terrain and endangering itself and others. Tell me, would declaring nature park in some way enhance awareness and reduce uncontrollable stay in Ivanšica as well as similar sites? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31038	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31039	Thank you very much. As I said in fact in my previous reply to the replica, that's exactly what one reason is, so if we have something to really keep, and we see that there are really a smaller part of those who sometimes don't appreciate it definitely would, in this way, be regulated by the protection of the park of nature. So when I was talking about the bill's proposal, I mentioned the tragic case in the vicinity of Rijeka where that motorbike driver unfortunately died because of that cable which was therefore connected over two trees, it was actually a very likely reaction of those people who think that they are actually bothered by their own forest, but it should also be borne in mind that these drivers are sometimes doing harm to the landscape itself, or to the nature in which they are located. So, there are a number of things that need to be regulated, and I'm sure that just by declaring this law, we can do it. So there's room for everything but in one orderly system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31040	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31041	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Habiban, your initiative has already become well known about nature parks related to the mountains of Zagorje. Since we are talking about Dinar Nature Park, as you yourself mentioned, it is important to sensitize citizens and support the local community. Of course, there are always certain resistances here as well, for example, such as hunting societies, but what I would especially point out, so the nearest nature park, the future nature park Ivanščica is the Park of Nature Žumberak there unfortunately according to is defined as nature park there is also a problem with the disposal of waste, but also with these other things you mentioned. And therefore, it is very important, and I think it can also be absorbed through the EU funds for video surveillance at least where they are in and out of nature parks. So what do you think of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31042	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31043	Thank you very much. Here I am glad that you mentioned this issue, in fact, of the EU funds, so I will be able to relate to that, so by establishing a nature park, therefore, in the authority of a public institution that would be established by a government regulation, there is a greater possibility of the absorption of EU funds for which there is indeed a great interest. You mentioned video surveillance here, an absolutely good idea, if I'm not wrong about talking to Mayor Zlatar, I think she actually mentioned that initiative and something like that that that the city of Zlatar is already doing. However, in this way and under the authority of one institution, it would, in fact, achieve the whole area being run from one actual centre, thus ensuring greater protection for the whole area, rather than actually having to depend on the initiatives of local officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31044	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31045	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear fellow, an absolute initiative well, absolutely to bring this to an end, but never forget parallel with it you have to work on professional bases and work on a spatial plan as the basis for a management plan. In doing so, I must say that in the northern part, you only recognized the Medvednica, but what I regret is that the Medvednica is now in the context of another story, and also not to say in the context of those unfortunate cablemen, not what it should be, but we also have the Žumberak and Papuk of Nature Parks, and not to say that in the eastern part we have something else. And you should never forget nature park is something that can be a driver of development. And that's the way it's supposed to be, and that's why every time in public space we discuss a lot more about who's going to be director, where it's going to be headquarters, and not what it can bring is actually bad. And everybody's even warning everyone, don't let it be for some kind of political trade. The best-quality people must be at the head of the administration. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31046	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31047	As I noted in my discussion, there is therefore a professional basis which was made for the regional park, but with its revision or revision I am sure that we can actually come up with a solution related to nature park, future nature park Ivanščica, Strahinjčica, Ravna gora and Maceljsko gorje. As for the professional bases or spatial plans you mentioned, so this is an initiative that goes out of this assembly, but I think the profession is the one that needs to determine the framework and this is everything you've talked about. And what I find extremely important is communication precisely with the local population so that it is clearly explained to them what the nature park is bringing, which are restrictions, which are to put away this fear that eventually exists and what you yourself mentioned in your debate that there were certain resistances to the local population.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31048	Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31049	Thank you. Therefore, the Centre's intensity is that Croatia finally has a clear, firm and effective legal framework, to be a strong state in this sense, but also to be rational and efficient as regards the organisation of its governance. I have one problem here, so we have on one side the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, then the Nature Protection Institute which you yourself mentioned and then the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, whose responsibilities are partly intertwined and intertwined, and all together in the context of the fact that we already have 11 parks of nature each of which has its own institution that manages it leads to what I consider a dysfunctional state prone to that corrupt clientelistic and artistic model that gives us all so many headaches. Is there any indication that you're willing to change it and rationalize it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31050	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31051	Thank you very much. I'm glad that maybe you broke this one consensus that was becoming so at first, I didn't expect it to be any different, but I'll give you the answers in Article 133. The Nature Protection Act is therefore an opportunity for several nature parks to be established one institution according to which it is on the trail of what you have mentioned some possible rationalization, if it must be this park to you, but I think it is actually an intensity now and what we are actually talking about here is a proposal that I think is good, and I think that support is actually absolutely all of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31052	Madam Vice President of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31053	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Habib, I'm often very critical of my performances in the assembly, today I won't be. My replica is not in fact a replica, but actually a support for your ability to rise above party interests and, together with all relevant factors here, representatives from all parties, from the 3rd electoral unit alike with two mayors who are not from the HDZ quota, but also from the mayors of Ivanca and the Mayor of Zlatar actually reach a consensus on what is important to your fellow citizens, and that is that you yourself mentioned the meaning of the declaration of nature park Ivanščica, Strahinjčica, Ravne gora and Maceljski Gora actually open a space for the popularization of this area as well for the promotion of local products, the stronger withdrawal of European funds, but also the tourist branding of the area itself and I congratulate you on that. And I hope that your colleagues will also learn from you that sometimes or often It shouldn't be more important who's talking than what's being said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31054	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31055	Thank you very much. Now you've put me in a very awkward position. It's not like I'm always this favored, but today I'm going to have to do a lot of replicating and be mean to you, I'm kidding. I can only say that there are certain questions this is really one where we have to simply find a consensus, I think only those who are malicious can't do this thing, this kind of thing, so support it. It doesn't really matter who the initiative is coming from, it's important that in the next period I hope and say I repeat until the end of this call finally in northwestern Croatia we get the first nature park and protect this area and I think it will benefit the local population first and foremost, but also to all those who love nature and who like to stay in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31056	Mr. Vice President Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I welcome your initiative especially because it refers to this continental part of Croatia. However, it may be important for the public to say that we here today are discussing the Nature Park Dinar, we will consensually make a decision to do so and declare it. But it's interesting that now 11 hours and 23 minutes, we still don't have a voting plan for today, so let the public know that there may be some debate in that sense. The only thing I'd like to say is that this benefit from your initiative should be to everyone and to the welfare of nature and to the well-being of people, so it's very important that the curiosity is not the result of your initiative so that tomorrow we hire people in the wrong way and then some ministers, let's say the ministers do their own free will, as they did with Dr. Ljilje Zmijanovic abolished the ruling of the Administrative Court and appointed again a person would not have been caught in that position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31058	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31059	Thank you very much. I'm aware of this that I've partly come out of the agenda, but who yesterday said here, Vice President Radin, it's important not to come out drastically, if I'm not cheating on that word he used. I hope so, and apparently I didn't step out of the box drastically. So I thank this one for the concern that I think I'm still inside. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31060	Mrs. Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31061	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I support your initiative, but I would ask you if you agree that quality and professional people run a public nature park facility that you stand for without being chosen on a party card and on what you might be able to do. So, I'm asking you, are you going to lobby to look for a vision of the development of a public institution in the principal's competition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31062	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31063	Thank you very much. I will continue lobbying to call to the end of this term so the area of Ivanščica, Strahinjce, Ravne gora and Maceljski Gora declared nature park and that is what my mission and my desire is and that is what I will lobby for. That's where my lobbying ends and you wouldn't get into this second part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31064	Thank you, too, no more replicas. And now it's Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31065	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the assistant minister, colleagues and colleagues will be very much interested in our Croatian public by declaring the Nature Park Act. This is very important for the Republic of Croatia, especially important for our two counties Split-Dalmatia and Sibenik-Kninska, and of invaluable importance for 9 municipalities and cities in whose area this nature park will be. From towns, from municipalities, dioceses of Civljani, Kijevo, the city of China, Croatians, Otok, Sinj, Trilja and Vrlika. Namely, this second-largest will be nature park, the biggest as you know Nature Park Velebit. And by doing that, we're going to have 20 protected areas. 12 nature parks. It will be very important for all inhabitants of the area because this will affect the improvement of the life and work of the local community in the protected area because this area has both scientific and cultural and educational and recreational purposes. What I would point out in this brief presentation and what I would like our public to know and in the very opening part of it is the State Secretary said that my initiative is not accepted, I will once again say this is the initiative of the municipality of Kijevo and Sibenik-Knin County that by a regulation that should be adopted within a year, that the seat of this nature park is determined precisely in the area of the municipality of Kijevo. Well, now a few facts. Surely you know that the highest peak in the Republic of Croatia, the highest peak of Dinare is at 1831 meters above sea level right in the area of Sibenik-Knin County. With this nature park about 80% of its area of the municipality of Kijevo and the municipality of Civljani is in the area of the park, in the nature park. When we talk about consent and the Kijevo municipality has the consent and municipalities of the citizens and the diocese and the city of Knin and the county and public institutions. Here we have seen that this year’s purpose is provided for in the state budget of 474,000 kuna, and in the next 529.000 kuna, the colleague earlier warned that it was minimumly necessary to open 3 jobs, meaning to have 3 employees, we know that there are certain material costs, etc., and it is important to say that the Kijevo municipality has prepared 4 properties that are inhabitable and therefore would significantly reduce the costs of this new nature park by giving them one or more of those spaces. Furthermore, let us not forget when and how it all began. As early as 2006, an initiative to protect this part was launched by the Kijevo municipality. An elaborate in collaboration with the county, which cost about 500,000 kuna, was built and funded. Here we have the 9th century Glavas fortress, we have a series of caves, caves, caves, a series of hiking bike trails, a project for ranger services was built, a feratta for climbers was built in the length of 1700 meters of project worth 2.5 million kuna, a mountain shelter built right on Sinjala was installed a safe house. All of this was done by the Kijevo municipality with its resources or with the help of European funds and similar in cooperation with both certainly and some of the partners such as mountainous societies etc., know that the Kijemo municipality has a modest budget of just over 4.5 million kuna and when we look at them working on this since 2006 while some other municipalities and cities have even looked at it with a mockery when and how they set off and how much they've singled out for it, I think it really deserves the Kiev municipality to be the headquarters of this future nature park. The border also passes through the village of Kijevo which creates additional problems, you know what it is about the construction area, and when it overlaps with the area of nature park. That's how much, once again appeal to the government and the ministry when they decide not to forget these facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31066	Thank you very much. Stay. First replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31067	Thank you very much. I thought the declared Dinara Nature Park wouldn't fall for chickening, only if you didn't prepare a new Nela Slavica that has two HNS cards for Krka National Park and HDZ, this SDSS and HDZ new. Please, who says he can't be in Sinj, who says he can't be in Vrgorec? So who are you and the Spider, that you may determine where they will be? You know where the biggest part is, if we're going to be honest? In Split-Dalmatia is the largest part of this nature park. So what does that mean? For me, Knin is my town. I've worked in it for 13 years. Well, you brought nature park down to chickening. Who will arrest more is Sibenik County, is Split-Dalmatia County and who has more party cards. Please don't chicken around nature park. Why don't you be in Sinj here's a reason, the centre of the Dalmatian fire, but I didn't even mention it in my debate or I was chickening. Do Vrlika, do Kieva, do Sinj, do Knin It's a shame to talk about the most important part of Croatia here. [[Okay, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31068	Answer, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31069	Since you're not ashamed to talk about chickening, is that what you're saying in translation that someone's there when they're standing up for their end? Who told you not to tell the facts of this speaker, like I said, that you don't feel uncomfortable with me as one representative and a woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31070	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31071	A colleague has injured Article 238 of the hens is not a personal insult because Nature Park, the nature park, you bring down to chickening like Nelu Slavica and nature park, the Krka National Park turned into a HDZ and HNS facility, insulting the Croatian defender, you insulted everyone, here you mocked whether it will be in Kiev, Vrlica, Sinj or Knina National Park. [[No, compliment.]] For what? To arrest those who have two party cards two party cards. [[Okay, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31072	Thank you, thank you very much, thank you very much. Please, I'll give you my word, I'll give you all my word. It's a used word and a shame this, what, let's just take it easy, we're talking about nature park. Here you are, Mr. Boric, the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31073	Thank you very much. Article 238, my colleague Bulj was extremely uncomfortable with his colleague and of course he meant what he said and he tried to make it right that it wasn't on her, he said it, he could be ashamed of you to come from a party that was chickening on Croatian waters when you were there when you were at the opportunity, you put your best friends in great places to lead those institutions from their places where they live and you forgot it. And then you tell others what you have That's what I'm talking about. [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31074	I'm asking that, yes, I begged you to lower your tension, you don't want to lower your tension I'll give you my word now, Mr. Bull, let's move on, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31075	Thank you very much. My colleague Boris hurt Article 238 by insulting me that I insulted someone, what was around the Krka National Park, it was a chickening where a Croatian defender and all the laws were injured, so you work in the nature park. And you as a snowflake of Plenkovic, I expect nothing more from the snowflake of Andrej Plenkovic, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31076	Since, no, since I've asked for the calm of passion, and they don't calm down, for the ventilation of the council and your heads, I'm giving you five minutes break. It's 11:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:39 AM]] Mrs. Juričev Martinchev, please. Please take your seats. Please, Mr. Secretary of State. Let's move on. Mr. Ante Bacic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31078	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here we are a little further away from the topic in these last two discussions. First we went north a little bit. Now we're about to do that humanizing thing. I support you normally. You are a representative of your area, it is normal that here you represent your cities as I will represent Split-Dalmatia and perhaps fight a little more for Vrlika. But we have to go back to the topic just by declaring the importance of Dinara Nature Park, because these three employees we mention most of the public institutions dealing with the conservation of the natural environment or through national parks, nature parks are employed mostly through EU funds, through projects such as Natura 2000, so the cost is now, for example, 500 thousand kuna, just how much we will return through fire protection on Dinara itself, how much we will return through the development of sustainable tourism that is insignificant means. So I think it's time to go back to the topic of the declaration and make this a happy day for the Croatian Parliament and for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31079	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31080	Thank you very much. Well, you're a colleague of Bacic's right. As I said, this is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia. Especially for our two counties, and invaluable for all 9 municipalities and cities where this area will be. Surely, since I come from Sibenik-Knin County together with my colleagues from that county, we'll be pushing for it to be in our county, and it's totally fine and we understand you, but she'd think it wouldn't be right if you didn't advocate it being in your area. And what some people don't understand is another problem. But we also have certain committees, so we'll also ask for protection when he's not alone and the chairman could at least say a reminder of such words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31081	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Begonja asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31082	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, colleagues, although many of the issues that have been opened here will still be addressed before us by the government and its regulation, it should be noted that the Sibenik-Knin County, as you yourself have said as an active participant, has recognised the value of Dinara and the wider area for which it has initiated and co-financed the creation of a professional protection base since 2006. Also in one relatively small space when viewing the area of Sibenik-Knin County there are two national parks, then parts of two nature parks, and I believe soon when this law and the third nature park are passed. But what is not mentioned enough is the role of public institution Nature Protection of Sibenik-Knin County which manages with two monuments of nature, 7 significant landscapes, 58 sites of ecological network including Dinara. Are these enough references for you to have the seat of a new nature park in the Sibenik-Knin County area? And I would especially like to say that the goal is to revitalise part of the Dalmatian mountain [[Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Begonja.]] In this case I think first of all [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] The Kieva municipality that was killed in the Homeland War. [[Mr. Begonja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31083	Mr. Begonja, hold on to your time, please. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31084	Thank you very much, colleague Begonja. True, these are all facts, and I believe that the government will sit at the table during this year before it makes its final decision and regulation and see what are all the advantages it offers and which the municipalities of Kijevo i.e. Sibenik-Knin County or Vrlika and Split-Dalmatia County have and that we will certainly make one such decision at the same table. Of course we from our county will love to be in our county, as well as Split-Dalmatia to be in the Vrlica area. But with great understanding, we're going to accept the arguments that are coming, and in this case, all we've put forward in our assessment is that it should still be the Kieva municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31085	Mr. Zeljko Pavić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31086	Dear MPs, if I'm not mistaken, you're coming from Vodice, right? For your county and for Split County, I am bound by truly beautiful memories of youth and I am really sorry that it has been hidden on this subject, because this topic is extremely important for your county and for the Split County. [[Attack of Juričev Martinchev: Yes.]] But I would like to draw attention to you very much, given that you are from Sibenik-Knin County that there is a big problem down there, and that is that there is a huge pollution of the Krka River, and there is absolutely nothing or almost nothing going on down there. Don't forget what happens in Knin, Krčić, Krka and it would be very good to now take this moment when the Nature Park Act is passed and look at the other problems that are in that county and actually touch the very edges of that new park, given that this area around Knin will be affected by the same area of nature park that is very big to take into account and take into account something and to draw attention to the population and entrepreneurs there as to how to live and what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31087	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31088	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić, for having elaborated problems so much and for getting you familiar with the problems in our area. Surely the protection of nature should be above all else. That's why one of these laws is passed, and it's protected by being declared a park of nature. We have problems, and we want to protect our seas as best as possible, and this nature in the back. I'd just like to correct you. It didn't hide in our house. As you've seen in our club, we don't have any problems, except we all stand for our own territory. What it has hidden can only be said that it has shown for another time the rudeness of individual MPs and the incorrectness of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31089	And finally Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31090	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Branka, you said that this elaborate was built on Kieva as the center. Since we all know that making one lab takes time and resources, I ask you nicely to tell us exactly what the exact means are, and how much time has been invested since we know that from this law that we're going to accept some commitment and that's a year until the founding date. So just give us a little bit of an explanation of how there's actually things with time and the design of that elaborate?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31092	Thank you very much, colleague Grba-Bujevic. Like I said, the Kieva municipality started this in 2006. In 2007, she started making elaborates, and in 2021, we're just discussing and we're going to pass the Nature Park Act. Enough to say how long it took, and this first elaborate alone is worth 500 thousand kunas financed by the Kijevo and Sibenik-Knin County municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31093	Thank you. No more replicas, you're free for now. It's Mr. Ante Bacic's turn, but we should clean up the pay phone. Please, we should clean up the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31094	Thank you, fellow Members, thank you to the Honorable Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's anything wrong with lobbying, and there's nothing wrong with it, and when Parliament's representatives lobby for public interest, I think it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's... it's, uh, it's, uh, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it' So here I'm going to start my exhibition with one finding that will be, and that's the seat of exactly the nature park Dinara facility will be in the city of Vrlika, so further discussions are not necessary at all. Thank you all for your support, and here's my congratulations. We have a very important topic ahead of us, so maybe we're a little off the hook. A colleague first took us a little north, to one commendable normal initiative which I believe will receive broad support from all clubs here in the Croatian Parliament and that we will see this law soon here because I think the North and Varazdin deserve it. But it has led us to one topic that is definitely current at this time, and it is not possible that it should be presented, and it is also employment, as well as the establishment of such public institutions and what the opposition is often undermining and talking about, and that it is actually the establishment of various institutions for the sake of some party staff, etc. Mostly these public institutions that already operate at the county level, but normally and national, which care for both national parks and nature parks, mostly even operate most of their employees through EU funds, i.e. specifically through projects funded from the EU and not burdened by budgets, national, or countyal, which make me think very strong and high-quality works. Because only when we see the width of these institutions and what they are dealing with and how much that protection of nature is currently being used and when we only point out that the emphasis of the new European budget and the new European Commission is exactly green Europe to protect as many parts of the original ones in the EU. We know that even through the NATURA 2000 network of protected areas, more than 20% of the EU area is protected precisely for certain plant and animal species that we definitely need to protect and which human factors it has normally damaged through its exploitation of certain industrial activities, but normally through basic life itself. We must note that there is no precedent for dinar debris, that there are over 1,000 plant species. 75 national endemics, let's not talk about speleology, all natural wealth, and what it's going to mean for this neighborhood. We also know how populated this area is and how much trouble it has. We know that all these municipalities and cities that belong and will tomorrow belong through the Nature Park Dinara, which is also Knin and Sinj and Vrlika, Croatians, Kijevo. We know what they have been through and through the Homeland War but also in general through the history of the Republic of Croatia and how many people have problems here and about normal eviction and about the number of employees, as well as the rest of our young people in the area. So just setting up a public institution like this and declaring the Nature Park Dinara can only bring good. We mentioned the economy, we kept it a little bit. Exactly what the European Commission also prefers today, but what the Croatian government is also pushing through its projects, which is precisely sustainable tourism. We have seen now and through this epidemic that we cannot rely solely on seasonal sea tourism. I will only mention our Park of Nature Biokovo there is our mayor who is precisely with all these projects and activities that are now open to Biokovo, when we now combine both the mountain and the sea how much content we offer to our tourists, how much good it brings to these areas. And it's good that here's the secretary of state initially mentioned exactly the protection related to the fact that the agency didn't give any permission to exploit some ores, hydrocarbons, oil, gas and other things. I'll finish my presentation because here's the most interesting part. There's nothing wrong with lobbying. But I think this moment of lobbying is over. The public institution will be in Vrlica. I believe my colleague Bulj will be pleased with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31095	Thank you, too. Stay. You have one whole cluster of replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31096	Thank you. A colleague of Bačić, apart from the abundance of the plant and animal world, of natural beauty, means a great tourist potential for Dinara, many of my Varazdinacs also bind certain sentimental values. Namely, right from Dinara are the legendary Varazdin 7th Guard Brigade of Puma, the Split 4th Guard Brigade of Spiders headed for the release of our homeland. Of the 92 killed members of the 7th Guard Brigade 32 died in Dinara, or every third, I therefore believe that the protection and protection of our mountains have, apart from all these natural beauty of tourist potentials and one value sentimental that binds us to the creation of our homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31097	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31098	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Striker, for this replica. I remember we were here with you at the last anniversary in Vrlica and Dinara itself. I believe and know and then through the story, experience of Puma we see how much people are sentimentally bound through the Homeland War exactly for that area that comes back from year to year and a large number of Croatian defenders have left there real and blood and sweat and tears, not to mention the dead and thanks for everything they've done for that end and all the operations that have come from that end. But we can see that they come back every year, that they're connected to that end. I think they will be happy too, and that is the segment of tourism that we have to revive this area through sustainable tourism to make as many people pass and see and enjoy these natural beauty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31099	Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31100	Here's my thanks, Vice President, Your Honor. Here's what we heard about Nature Park Dinara, and I don't think this beautiful story should have a bad ending, and it looks like some MPs here have their own truth and don't respect any other arguments. I believe that the greatest anger can be said in an appropriate and civilized way and that it does not matter where nature park will be, but that nature park will be. And if we ask ourselves who we are neutral, then it will not be yours, nor theirs, but ours. So, yes, but I think the government of the Republic of Croatia should be the one to determine the seat of the Nature Park Dinara.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31101	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31102	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, fellow Shimičević. I agree. It is important here today, and it is important that we finish the debate until the vote itself, that today pass and declare the Nature Park Dinara. It doesn't matter where the seat is. As long as the seat is in Vrlica it's normal, so we've absorbed it all. But I don't want the opposition here to indicate that there's any conflict. We have been colleagues for too long, and cooperation between Sibenik-Kninska and Split-Dalmatia is in many projects, and in many features and in many historical patterns one county, one people and most of us here I personally came from Sibenik-Knin County to Split-Dalmatia so that there is no problem there. It is a positive lobbying and a positive conflict of opinion between colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31103	Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31104	Your Honor, in your presentation, you have more or less repeated yourself and relied on everything your predecessor, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, said with one distinction. She was very upset, I have to say, not a bit of a representative and not a bit of a lady when counterpart Miro Bulj said the word "coaching". I am really sorry that no one in HDZ has been upset in this way when the same word "coaching" was used by the president of the state, Zoran Milanovic, speaking of war profit and other serious crime, about rebuilding houses in the area of Banja after the war. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31105	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31106	Thank you, Vice President, thank you, colleague Oreshkovic. Comrade Bauk, it's not Bani, it's Banovina. My fellow Members, I think that what we heard earlier and a little "coaching" and the characterization of our colleagues with certain nicknames and certain epithets, I think that you were the first to jump into the assembly and stand in defense as I believe all these colleagues when President Milanovic attacked you stood up in defense both with their statuses and on Facebook and with their presses stood up for you. So I think it's time for the discourse and dialogue in this House to go back to what's original, which is civilizing and quality and to use and to choose words and to respect ourselves as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31107	Mr. Jure Bourkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31108	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, you just mentioned the Park of Nature Biokovo. What positive experience from the work of Nature Park Biokovo can apply future Nature Park Dinara by you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31109	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31110	Thank you, Vice President. Hey, buddy Brkan, thanks for the line. We know last year what we opened exactly on Biokov's one and how a long path that can be exploitable both cyclist and a hundred other ways. The facility that was built on the mountain Biokovo is the very interest that has been shown that many people stand on the ramp today and cannot leave in business time and see all the beauty of Biokova shows how profitable it is and how rewarding Dinara herself will be tomorrow. The point here is to involve not only the state through its public institution, but also the local community to design projects. Only when you drive from Sinj to Vrlika do we have miles and miles along the Peru Lake which can be a beautiful cycling trail. That's one potential we definitely have to take advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31111	Mrs. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31112	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you had a very nice discussion and I am sure that before the final decision is made that the minister and even the prime minister will sit at the table with representatives and the Sibenik-Knin County and Split-Dalmatia, that all arguments will be on the table, that there will be both you and I at the meeting and that you will accept that there are still more arguments on the side of the Sibenik-Knin County and the Kijevo municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31113	Answer. Here you go. And a little quiet, please, in the assembly room! Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31114	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Jurichev-Martinchev. I thought we'd finished that debate so we wouldn't have to include the Prime Minister and the Minister now. I think that's where we agreed it was Vrlica and we don't have to go on, and with you, I believe we'll have more and more normal at the club and at the Ministry's level discussion about it. Every city, every neighborhood, and that is in the Croats, and the island, and in Sinj, it would not be bad for every neighborhood that deserves it, and I believe that it has both the capacity and the staff of the people who will take care of this area. We haven't mentioned so much projects and Holistics protection against fires that will bring to Dinara Benefit and how much it will save the state and resources, and money so that as far as public institutions themselves and tomorrow's employment and development are concerned, I don't think there will be any problems, that it is just one plus and a benefit for that area, but normally for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31115	... And also Begonja. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31116	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić, I am convinced that we will agree that the quality of today's Bill's proposal is the primary protection of nature in part includes the dynar mass, part of Cetina and karst fields along Cetina. But it's also a secondary economic component, so I'm asking your opinion. In economic terms, should this Nature Park also be a lever of even development of these parts of rural areas primarily those who were killed by war, and it is doubtless that the Kijevo municipality suffered the most? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31117	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31118	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleague Begonja. I'm very sorry about this debate and through clubs, maybe we haven't exactly touched the economic aspect so much, and I think only the Ministry of Economy believe that there are plans for this area in this particular consultation with other ministries most normally there should be the Ministry of Tourism, as well as tourist communities from these areas. I believe that one great potential is in our hands tomorrow related to the dinar area. Just what I mentioned, we can no longer rely so much on and normally base exclusively all the tourism at sea, sun and shore. We have ends like here's Biokovo, but normally here now Dinara which are de facto 20 kilometers from the sea and that potential to connect both the sea and the mountains and part that Zagorsky, part that continental Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31119	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31120	Dear colleague, if I'm not mistaken, you're... You came from Vrlika, right? [[You don't understand.]] You didn't? [[Bačić: Me? I didn't.]] Okay. I have to admit that I'm more associated with some nice things, Drnish, you know what I mean? You said here in your discussion that there would be employment, that there would be accommodation of the facility either in Vrlica, or in Kiev. Bull's looking in Sinjo. I don't think it's that important. I think the most important thing is to hire quality and good people to run that facility. If she's going to be run from one city, another city doesn't matter that much. It's important for employment to ask what you know, what you can, how you can, not what you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31121	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31122	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, fellow Pavić. I'm from the Drain Place. My family moved to Split from Miljevac, so I'm a 10 rep here. Elections from Split, so it binds me really much to both of these areas that I consider a lot of things to be one thing, we were missing just because we turned the debate on what is definitely irrelevant and what is a small segment in this whole story, which is these three or five or tomorrow, or depends on how much EU funding is going to run right tomorrow for public institution. And I don't think we've been able to even mention all the benefits of this nature park because we've been constantly caught up with those topics that might be perhaps now most popularally interesting for politics. So I think we missed a little bit at the beginning, but here's hoping that tomorrow through the regulations and through the institution, we'll make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31123	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31124	Dear colleague, Your Honor. A colleague of Juričev Martinchev said you were having a nice discussion, and if you return in the opening statement, you accused the opposition of being against public institutions. As much as you said, we're against nature's protection. I'm not sure who you could get against. The opposition is against political staffing in the management of public institutions, as well as parks of nature. And we saw ourselves in the Klet affair or in the affair which you would consider if business were also offered to manage Medvednica in the same way, so I ask you not to accuse the opposition against public institutions in nature parks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31125	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31126	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, fellow Boric. I didn't mention that. I don't know where you got out of my argument that you're against or that the opposition is against public institutions. However, through the club debate, I think that we will be unique about this law and that there will be no problem, so I think that's where you misunderstood me. We need to distinguish what you say about both public institutions and directors and directors. Normally, if a particular political structure assumes power and obligation for a particular area has the right to normal and set certain people up, normally not past the competition. That way we can watch, I don't know if you've won how many seats in Parliament we can change the law, so you can stop at that moment, so I don't know the best way to call a competition for the best and put them in the Parliament. You went to the election. You get a mandate, you use it here and maybe you're not the best for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31127	Thank you very much. Here you go, fellow Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31128	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's a colleague you mentioned in your debate I listed that big fire in April last year at Dinara, which was extinguished thanks to the efforts of the fireman, the HGSS squadron. I'm sure there already exists or that the Nature Park has been declared that the fire would actually be very likely to be in a small volume. You have well cited the example of Biokov as the Nature Park which greatly exploits its newly acquired status for tourism development. So we all know that already well-known celestial promenade. So I also think this declaration of Nature Park Dinara certainly gives one new opportunity to develop tourism. You mentioned this part when I mentioned in my debate the future Nature Park Ivančica, so here I invite you from the south to visit the future park Ivančica, and we will come from the north to the future Dinara Park to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31129	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31130	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, fellow Habian. Here's a thank you for calling, and I believe most of us will join and visit, and I believe that nature park tomorrow. You mentioned the fires and the last one we had on Dinara how much damage there was. We in Split-Dalmatia County have good experiences just about the fire season and about a big project that we had at the county level, which is Holistik. Exactly what you mentioned in your discussion and what you responded through the replicas, which is the very video surveillance of such large areas as Biokovo and Dinara, and I think we already have open and open competitions at the level and the European Union. I repeat, like this Holistik where such large massive areas can be covered by fire-cams and thus save the normal Republic of Croatia great material and future financial damage and resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31131	And the last replica of my colleague Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31132	Thank you very much. A colleague in this debate is the most important area of Nature Park Dinar. Most of the cetina didn't go except for the source. We also have a small part of the Croatian field at Romin. Cetina is the most important. The feather didn't come in. Krka didn't come in. The tributaries didn't come in. It is not protected as it is in Krka National Park that oil from the factory which is now in Knin enters the Krka National Park. So we have a number of problems that are ecological. But the most important thing was that hemlock. I repeat, chickening in the appointment of the director of Krka National Park where the Croatian defender Mrs Ljiljana Zmijanović is not named, but one who has two party cards has been appointed. Dinara is important not only as an endemic, as a special feature of the cross. She's important in the Homeland War. I have the right to say that because I was a member of the 4th. Brigades and I know what it means, and to argue here is it Knin, Sinj, that's what chickening is for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31133	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31134	Thank you, Your Honor. I've been expecting you, but you're from my neighborhood down there, and I expected you to get up and apologize to your colleague for the words you've given me. You can't salt your brains here and keep your ancestors tied to chickening and infatuating, hiring. The bridge was five minutes in power, and you didn't have people. You hired anyone who had coffee with you from Metkovic to Zagreb. It was in a lot of your people's ministries that you knew for five minutes. So don't go back to it. Don’t take advantage of it because I think you too have what is said as “the pot on the head ” about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31135	Just a little buddy Bull. Before I give you my word, I'm asking you to have representatives who are not in the seats here sitting in the rooms that are scheduled to meet the epidemiological criteria, because there's really a lot of people in the small space right now, so please stick to it. Here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31136	Thank you very much. A colleague hurt Article 238, where he said I had a headpost. I didn't hire anybody or hire anyone. Give me one name, and you've been chickening in Krka National Park and now you're trying to chicken code as in the case of Medvednica, which your colleague, Tušek, has offered to hire a councilman who will buy in the future i.e. The present case. I didn't chicken with anything. I fought at Dinara where I defend. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, beautiful colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31137	Comrade Bull, thank you very much. You know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31138	We continue to work on the previous agenda point and the individual debate. The next is distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31139	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. I welcome all of you together. The area of Dinara Mountain is such a vast and naturally valuable area in Croatia which has not yet obtained protection status under the Nature Protection Act, but today's Proposal for a Final Protection Act that is ahead of us, it is really necessary, it is inevitable, we need it, and certainly as far as biodiversity is concerned, I would like to say and mention once again that Dinara is home to many endemic species and therefore our aspect is invaluable. So far, 1164 plant species, 60 species of lichens, 8 species of amphibians, 21 species of reptiles, 191 species of birds, 42 species of mammals have been reported in Dinara. On Dinara, we find all three of our great beasts, wolves, lynx and bears. Dinara is the only place in the Republic of Croatia where the mountain's sex nests. The symbol of the karst area of Dinara is also the dinar voluhar a relic species and endemic. A good part of the Croatian eagle population, the eagle is located in the area of Dinara and Dinara indeed has preserved natural properties and is now given a great, big, strong reason to protect itself. It is important here to emphasize two things, first of all that nature is not static, it is dynamic with processes that are constantly, constantly going on, constantly changing, and the second thing that we value on Dinara is not just pure nature, but this one ratio of interaction between man and nature that for thousands of years created one truth dynamic but still in its way a stable balance. This balance, which includes considerable biodiversity and deep traces of human culture, is well conditioned by the environment, in fact, the general objective of today's protection by the proposal for this final law. But it is also seriously endangered for a future public institution to manage Dinaro, waiting for a very demanding, demanding and responsible job. Which way should the future management of the Dinar go? The shortest way to preserve this mentioned steady balance that I mentioned, and it is currently and in one way thrown out of its balanced position. In fact, people have left Dinara in the last half century or something more well. They also had this millennium effect on the natural environment, an impact that was favourable to biodiversity. This means that some elements of biodiversity are now somewhat lost and that trend will not be easy to stop. Traditional activities with Dinar of course do not disappear by accident and have changed technologies, mentalities have changed, and today other opportunities are. Therefore, in addition to the great effort to preserve tradition, there should be enough creativity, there should be enough visionaryism for the introduction and new activities, but only those that can fit into the management objectives. In the context of the talk about human presence and activities should be kept in mind the very category of protection of nature parks. This is the principle of a very spacious area under a relatively mild protection regime that allows many human activities that in some stricter categories of protection would not be possible. Such a form of protection is quite appropriate to Dinari, and how it will work will depend on how it is applied. This job is very, very demanding. I want to really mention here and I want to commend and confess to all those who have worked for years on this protection of dinar nature under difficult conditions. It is and I want to highlight my Split-Dalmatia County, the Public Institute of the Sea and the karst that has managed about 2/3 of the future park that is located right in my county where I come from. And they will still run several projects in the Dinara area until a new institution is established under government regulations. Therefore, I would like to say that I express my full support and support for today's final proposal of nature park law, I strongly support the proposal of the Split-Dalmatia County to seat The future public institution will be in the town of Vrlica for which it has support [[Intruder: Thank you.]] All units of local self-government from the area I come from. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31140	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31141	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, so you finally said something that, where it will be, there should be no topic of this debate. So it should be a topic of agreement, a topic of conversation, a topic of sitting down at the table and seeing what's best, which is most acceptable. I have to admit that I always watch when it comes to such suggestions, so when it comes to nature park, I look at that professional part. It's extremely important to declare nature park, but it's even more important to make sure that they're rangers, make sure there's no inappropriate behavior, no inappropriate things, and make sure that we protect nature, which is why we declare nature park. So you're not declaring nature park so let nature do whatever it wants because it'll turn into something else. You are declaring nature park because we recognize that there is something important there, which is important for Croatia, important in this context and therefore the role of man is extremely important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31142	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31143	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives of Anka Dark Taritash, I certainly support what you have said, and I, too, in my speech, have largely told about this relationship between man and nature. Neither I nor you today will decide where this facility will be. Allow me a little personality since I come from Split-Dalmatia County and I know the Public Institute of the Sea and Break, I know the human values that have so far worked on projects in that Dinara and since Dinara is largely located, mostly in the Split-Dalmatia County in the area of 63%, and Sibenik-Kninska is only 37, let me represent a little personality to represent my neighborhood from which I come.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31144	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31145	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I think you've quite justifiably made the arguments that you think should be expressed around the headquarters of this new nature park, of course, by respecting those other opinions. I'm kind of family-bound and related to Vrlika myself since my grandmother was born and raised there, but she's been gone for 30 years, and that's actually what I wanted to mention here. And you've opened the very subject of depopulation as the main topic of yours, your debates, and I think that maybe we should focus more on this debate, too, because this final bill can certainly be an incentive that we should look at and look at in the context of a policy that will try to change that direction of the depopulation that unfortunately isn't since yesterday, but as I say, it's been going on for many years now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31146	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31147	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier, you have said a great thing, you have just said that by declaring the park that there will be numerous opportunities for opening up to that population that is gravitating precisely in Dinara and in this area and by setting up a public institution, new jobs will be opened, just what has been mentioned by a former colleague and hired rangers to protect this environment and watch and watch over and really look forward to, looking forward to, looking forward to, future development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31148	And the next replica of the respected representative Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31149	Dear colleague, esteemed vice president, esteemed colleague. Indeed, what is important today is the importance of adopting exactly the Law on the Declaration of the PP Dinar because we are all aware of how many opportunities our country has and how much tourism is possible in this way and for guests, but also for domestic people to bring the whole area closer actually and to value it in another way and to enable both economic and other ways to be more passive now and thus actually show and prove how beautiful our country is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31150	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of Grozdan, certainly the area will also turn to tourism and the future, the sources of funding from the EU using funds, and since the area is located next to the border and BiH is opening up a great opportunity for cross-border cooperation and using these funds both national and these cross-border, so that, in any case, there is a great challenge waiting for us and I would say such a Churchie this is just, this is not the end of the vote by this final, that final law beginning of a nice success story for the Republic, especially for us down from Sibenik-Knin County and Split-Dalmatia County, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31152	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31153	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. During the morning debate on this agenda point, I pointed out that in one part of the jurisdiction and authority of certain state bodies we have a intertwination, even conflicts with each other or that we have a larger number of bodies dealing with the same topic, doing the same thing, which is why our country is irrational, inefficient, and expensive because we have an excessive number of public employees working in one and the same jobs. So we have something that should be done by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, something that should be done by the Institute for Nature Protection, and then something that should be done by the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. What's with all the bodies? I believe that Croatia should go towards unification, uniform regulation, thus reducing the number of public officials that are responsible for something. In such a comment my colleagues from the ranks of the ruling said that I am breaking the unity of the assembly to discuss this item of the agenda, and that is where we come into a small problem. Indeed, if we talk about the beauty of Dinara, that we want to declare it a park and protect that area there is no dispute between any MP within HS. But what I want to object to is how do we protect that nature through legal norms and through legislation alone? And this isn't just about this law being a problem. This law follows the model, follows the splendor of all previous ones. So, we have 11 nature parks right now, Biokovo, Kopački ass, Papuk, Učka, Velebit, Vransko lake, Žumberak, Lastovo, Lonjsko polje, Medvednica and Telašića. Each of these parks has its own facility, each institution is established by special law. What is specific, what is happening, and it always goes under the radar, and that is what is my area of some legal knowledge and specialization is the fact that such institutions are declared in order by institutions of special state interest, or very often by institutions of particular interest to a local or regional or regional self-government unit. And what does that really mean? By declaring an institution of particular interest, it gives legal opportunity to place officials, most often local, under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Administrative Councils. And what does that mean in practice? This means that local officials and local politics will choose their own people in that body, the director, and even employees. The structure of employees is not prescribed anywhere, the structure of employees no one controls, no one controls the director of these bodies, there are no rules on conflict of interest here, there are no powers of the Commission to decide on conflict of interest, all of which local or regional often and state policy cannot implement through its resources because they are still on radar, someone is following them, being carried out through these institutions and these bodies. And that's why it's obvious and the interest of politics, and that's what happens as a perpetum of mobiles over and over again, and it's always one and the same pattern that makes the new law, the new institution, the new body, the greater the fragmentation, because that's how everything we really need to fight corruption, nepotism, entanglement bigger and harder to follow and control. And in vain there is someone also mentioned this by the MPs, the possibility that in the Nature Protection Act for a large number of parks a single institution will be formed which will manage it because in practice it is never implemented as in practice it is never implemented to sanction certain violations of the provisions of that same Nature Protection Act because it is simply the law itself that did not foresee it. That's what you should be counting on. What I'd advocate, so now, as far as this law itself is concerned, is a small maneuvering space. It will turn out that someone opposes who votes against this park being declared, that it is determined, that it goes with those good sides that follow after the declaration of nature park. But all of this will fall into the water because the model management of that nature park will remain the same. I really don't see any single reason why we can't establish unique standards and criteria of how all our parks work. We're talking about transparency, I'm sorry if the ruling likes to use this word, so here's what I'm going to remind Mr. Hrebac that local transparency doesn't involve monitoring the work and transparency of such institutions. As income approaches, what incomes are spent on, never and nowhere. It should also dispel this possibility to declare it to institutions of particular interest and to sit there as it is only then that we will get to what is pointed out in her colleague Vucilovic that we are setting people up on the basis of the profession, not on the basis of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31154	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31155	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, when we discuss certain drafts of the law, I clearly distinguish a few species. You have those where you show your political views, you have those that are in a certain way technical, and you have those that you promote certain attitudes and what's important for Croatia. When it comes to the declaration of nature park, I read it as something where Croatia sends its picture into the world that it is important to nature, that it is concerned with the comparative advantages it has and that we will advocate it. And that's how it's supposed to be. Why is it important to declare nature park? I'll repeat what I said and in the debate on behalf of the club. So you have one 20 years you've had people going out on the streets and opposed to where they live to declare the nature park. Why? You know, ignorance, inexperience, bad information often leads to such a situation. For what reason, because they thought, we will be, they said we will be like rare animals in the ghetto, you will, from Europe people will come to watch us live and we can't do anything. That's not the point of declaring nature park. Nature's Park is first declared for reasons because I want the reason why it is, therefore, especially valuable parts of nature, cultural heritage and the rest, because we want to protect it in particular. But never, but it should never be forgotten that it is the only thing that can protect a man by his actions. I'm just going to say one example now. There is one nature park that has been a park of nature for a long time where the theme is whether it can be a nature park anymore because the reason why it was no longer exists. What's this about? It was about pastures in high places, so those high pastures that weren't, so there wasn't anyone who would put those pastures in the situation as it is and put a serious problem, they would heal up to become some other value but not because it was declared a park of nature. So, I repeat and repeat every time, man by his actions in the park of nature and by his mastery therefore whether it is livestock, whether it is therefore in the park of nature there is a sanitary cutting of the forest, because if the woods go where they no longer need it will not be a park of nature why it has become. Only a man can do that. I really read every time a park of nature is declared I read it in a way of importance and importance. So, on the one hand we send a message to Croatia is important to its nature, it is important to keep it that way, Croatia should take care of it, but then we really need to take care of it. And we can take this into account in a few ways, after we declare it, we need to very quickly bring not only a management plan that is under this law but also a spatial plan. My experience is that it's best, but really best to bring it together because then you can correct each other there, and then have rangers, so you have all those who take care of it. Today you have a series of technologies that you can do and make sure it's under control and that's why it's important. What I want to say this way, the last spatial plan of nature park was in this assembly in 2015. Since 2015 there have been no more spatial plans because the spatial nature park plan brings together the Republic of Croatia. This is an incentive. So I don't want to be bad either, but this is really one topic that I want to discuss professionally and I'm here in this topic regardless of what I see options, but I see the option let's try to do something about sending a picture of this Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What needs to be is you're making spatial plans. For what reason? Because people read in the park of nature we can't build, it's not true, in the park of nature can be built under certain conditions. And now, just for the end of it, I've said what I think about it when the debate turns into where it's going to be, sit down and make a deal. Who's going to be the director of that, of course we've had a chance to see now. But when Medvednica was already mentioned, there was one decisive project, a project that we could apply to the EU, a 3 cableway project in 3 nature parks, in Medvednica, in Učka and in Biokovo. This would be the perfect project to apply to EU funds, could provide funding, could ensure everything, but why didn't we do it? Because we couldn't sit down and make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31156	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31157	Dear MPs, I'm glad you had a debate today twice because I think you're one of the most qualified persons in this assembly to talk about these topics and we've heard a lot of information that isn't actually contained in the documentation we've received for discussion. What would you ask you to repeat for those of us who are here in the assembly and for the public what are the advantages of economic, economic, organisational for these areas declared a park of nature?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31158	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31159	Dear MPs, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31160	I'm sorry, I'm a little early because Mr. Zekanovic's in a hurry, so I have to cut it short. Thank you very much. So unlike real ignorance and when people think don't put me in a nature park here is a series of advantages. When it comes to management, this is the part that you can really get from a special EU fund certain funds for indigenous, for and for and for the animal world, so and for everything you do, and that's why I was deliberately talking about a nature park where, in fact, it was because, what was the value of traditional livestocking, there was suddenly no one else. But I'm using this replica to answer something else. We're always having a problem in the park of nature, there's no building and there's not going to be any building. That's not true. All those building areas that are currently in spatial plans, and will be taken over by the borders of nature parks will remain only different, different conditions, different ways. And one day when a new spatial plan can't be reduced to you, it can only give you little, little someone to define the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31161	The next replica of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31162	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you've actually been discussing how we really need to discuss this law that allows this very qualitative evaluation of something we inherited and what we need to worry about. It's really important that the management plan is brought in and what saddens me in others, say, nature parks, that we have one moment when something is really going to be done, and then it stops, and then it leaves and doesn't count enough. That's why I'd like it to really be a lasting concern for all those who are, who have to worry about us as citizens who come to these parks of nature. What bothers me is the qualification of a former colleague who says you as a party person are less qualified if you run for office and become the director of such a nature park. I don't think it's supposed to be such a qualification.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31163	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31164	Thank you very much. So we are 151 MPs, and each of us has its own way and our own topics to deal with. This is one topic I'm dealing with, and I really want to really use some experience and some knowledge to speak from this pay phone, it's enough for three people to hear it, and three people to take advantage of some things. I have to admit that, it was the HDZ government, I'm like someone who deals with it, 10 of us went to all national parks and nature parks in the Republic of Croatia. I didn't know what my intention was at first because, as I do sometimes say a little bit too much, I said what we're like now, traveling the Monty Python circus. It was very useful to me, it was useful to me because I was given some kind of knowledge. You know, we're giving me some qualifications, lightly, at a time when someone starts to deal with politics, he can't forget his profession, you know that I use this pay phone very often to say what I've been doing all my life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31165	Thank you very much, thank you very much. The next replicas of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31166	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash, you mentioned in your presentation and said that usually residents of the area in which the nature park should be declared are responding. So here I believe that there was resistance in all the areas at the very beginning because it's about extremely small municipalities, the good city is something bigger, there are all nine of them, since I'm better acquainted with the opportunities in Kiev, there's only 300 inhabitants, there's a budget of just over 4.5 million kuna. The fact that the drawing of this area of nature park passes through the settlement itself, in 2006 to run such a thing, came up with such an idea caused a lot of resistance, not only in the municipality but also in neighbouring municipalities and cities. And in addition to that, you often mention the ranger service, it should be said that they even designed a project to establish a ranger service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31167	Dear MPs, Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31168	Thank you very much for your replica, is there any chance that I could point out some more things? At the beginning when it was all people were not only, so people were in Zagreb where the boundaries of the nature park Medvednica were mentioned so many times, they were drying up just us remove my plot and... The borders sometimes go in the middle of the street, sometimes they go across the borders of the Catastrian municipalities, so things have changed because people have seen them get it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] For a small municipality of Kijevo, the declaration of nature park can be a driver of development. Not only will they be there, so be careful, some rangers will be working, so you won't be the rangers until I know from somewhere, they'll be working by those people who are there who know it best and that's the case. So look, from a long time ago, the stories with nature parks really went one step further. I always mention some experience on the outside, there's one experience from a Scandinavian country where people went out and asked that, there was a border in the middle of the street, that the other side of the street would be in the park of nature, so that's the way we're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31169	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31170	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives Mrak Taritaš, your debate today, a constructive debate pointed to a fundamentally positive connection and interdependence of nature and human life objectives in this area, and I think that the peaceful souls today can be said that the local people also realized that they also felt this fact and showed through the interest of public debate that there were no significant objections to the proposal to protect Dinara Park.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31171	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31172	So if I were to say in one word that is extremely important, it is an extremely important education, we are actually forgetting you. And it's wrong when education is dealt with by someone who has relatively little knowledge or you know when it starts that's what snowballs so it's good, someone says that in this nature park it's going to be something terrible and of course people in ignorance say, much more negative than positive. I really think that the quality when we have, of course we don't have to declare everything for everything, today we would absolutely get the conditions and I won't say any heresy and all the experts know it, we have Brijuni National Park, the question is, whether it's a national park or not, but I won't open some painful wounds and some other topics. So if you have some kind of comparative advantage and you have some reason to brag in the world, then it's among other things those parks We need to take advantage of nature, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31173	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31174	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, here's a little attention here I have some concrete information here, concrete information and requests from the field, here are people coming to me from the field, here are some people right now on Krčić who now came under Nature Park Dinara and here I am welcoming Anita, Sanja, Tina and Damir, people are from your system and say not only they but many others are saying the following and I think so. The first thing is by no means allowed on the river Krčić, which was formerly a significant landscape, and now it is within the nature park of building a mini power plant. Since I worked in that resistor there were problems, there will be problems again, stop it, stop it, if you do not prevent it, you will also have a problem with Croatian sovereigns. So that can't happen. It's a fantastic landscape, after all, you have a college epiphany, meaning the Faculty of Natural History and Math who was strictly against it for protection above all the sedated barriers. The other thing is also the danger of installing assembly houses in Dinara, which should also be regulated or restricted. Another thing that some colleagues have pointed out here, and I will also repeat, and these are the colorful lakes that have remained at the edge of nature park today, it can always be changed to be made, so add to the professional background and let the colorful lakes be placed inside the nature park because it makes sense, it's an ecological network and it's worth space. But now I'm going to tell you one key problem of all protected natural areas in the Republic of Croatia which you and I assume you know but no one has said here. The key problem is that you have now determined that in this park of nature work 3 people, 600 km2, 600 km2 3 people, of course first comes director, ha director can and director, cannot be alone or needs a secretary and then someone else there, is one nature ranger who will protect everything else, 600 km2. You know how much that is? It's almost two islands of Brac, it's a lot to you, it's a whole Dinara and it's very, very much. So you need to find a model to finance protected, protected parts of nature, or public institutions that manage. There's no model to finance, and in the end, it's bad for you. You've left the county institutions to the county, there's no source of funding, for these means the institutions you're setting up don't exist some model of funding. Make it a fee, make it something, but those facilities just have to have one solid back, a financial back. It's the easiest decision to make and we'll make it, I'll vote for this nature park definitely, I think it's good, but after the decision has been made and after tomorrow's appointment of the director, the principal who's going to pay for it. You know that? The system of nature protection does not have a system of financing. Most of the systems have, so here's the unfortunate HGK has it, he's on the burden of who, Croatian entrepreneurs, pays for his family's membership, but the nature protection system doesn't have it and it has to change. Here, that's what I'm telling you here, this is the voice of the profession, this is what people who work in that branch tell me, and so I'm asking you to change it and it's urgent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31175	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31176	My colleague Zekanovic only partially agrees with you. I will agree that there is no regulated funding system which would be clear, transparent and which could be controlled to show what the revenue side is spending on. And as an example, I'm going to name Nature Park Plitvice, so there's still something going on there, and ohohoh, big income coming through the tickets that are paid, as that income is spent, that's another question. But I agree with you that a complete model should be arranged differently, prescribed and set up models of control and responsibility that are unfortunately not available today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31177	Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31178	Dear colleagues Oreshković, therefore there are two national parks or two protected natural landscapes in the category of national park that are self-contained and I will even put a questionnaire on this one, is one Krka National Park in my Sibenik-Knin County, the other is Plitvice National Park and I think everyone else is on the burden of the budget, everyone. And for Plitvice, I'm not sure since there are a thousand employees who have loaded themselves with hotels and activities that are not even parent, everyone has remained on the burden of budget. And now what's key, okay, we're gonna protect it, but we need to find a model of funding, we need to find a niche through which these people will get the money. First of all, self-sustainability must be worked on and can and must be the key business of the nature protection sector within this ministry, means sustainability only. Is it through tickets, is it through concessions, is it through something, has a whole series of models, but it has to be a key, key job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31179	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31180	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm just going to have a few of my thoughts with the fact that I was pretty attached to that area when I was younger and I don't think any person who's been through that part of our country is going to say that we don't need to declare nature park. First because those who have seen down the cities of Knin, Sinj, Trilj, Vrlika who have seen those landscapes, that beauty I think they will all be happy and satisfied if they are aware and if they know that this area will continue to be maintained and that someone will take care of it in a different way. We all know that apart from keeping the landscape down there, the ecological landscape that will guard other values, there is yet another advantage I hope that all those wild dumps will be removed from that area and that it will be one area in the discipline of all of us who used to go down and who we really love. It is important that the inhabitants of the region are treated with this nature park, it is important that smart, good and economically sustainable masters, if possible, and we heard that it is difficult, but we have funding from the budget that should ensure that it is well and quality-supported. It must not be allowed to treat such values and beauty as individuals treat the river Krka, but I also mentioned it to Krčić and Krka to the river Cetina or to the rivers Krupa, Krnjiza and Zrmanja it is down in the second county, but it is similar behaviour, it is a similar relationship. We heard last year, I think it was even last year a huge pollution of Zrmanja which really bothers me because I've been there a lot of times and we know what beauty can be seen there and how people can enjoy it. It is a pity that the promoter has not carefully examined some of the remarks made to the law and accepted the most important ones that our colleague Dračevac has drawn attention to among other things, but I believe that through the additions and amendments to the law, this will be corrected in the near future. I believe that the law will be adopted, and it is certainly good for that area, for that area, for those county as well as for the units of local self-government because, as MP Mrak Taritas said, it is a great advantage if the masters in the area of nature park, the advantages they gain were just listed and I think that all inhabitants of that region will understand it and will accept it as their commitment to take advantage of you and take advantage of it. In order to truly be an advantage, I urge that people, professional people, hire professional people, people from the profession who will know how to preserve it, how to improve the area. And another appeal, a suggestion, a suggestion, I don't think for such a large area three people are enough. We heard and in the exhibitions, we need rangers who need to keep that nature park safe, unless these rangers have what's left of it. Whether to charge tickets as charged for NP Krka, NP Plitvice, NP Kornati, questionable. If we're going to charge all the parks for payments where we're going, who's going to come in, who's going to watch. So that's what you need to cherish to make people enjoy it without tickets. And finally, to look back on one initiative, and I hope that such a consensus will be reached when other nature parks are declared in our homeland, for which the proposals will come before this assembly, and we know that some are already being prepared. You heard today from our colleague that an initiative was signed for the declaration of Nature Park Ivančica, Strahinjčica,... worse and Ravna Gora signed by all MPs coming from the area as well as the leaders of local self-government on whose territory this nature park should stretch. And I am sure that all relevant political factors in this area will support this initiative and we will soon be able to boast of another nature park, this time nature park on the territory of Krapina-Zagorska and Varazdin County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31181	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31182	Thank you very much. I actually decided on this replica for the reason I was going to comment, give an initiative to declare another nature park, but in the debate you asked me to do something else. So, you always open up the topic of tickets to nature parks and national parks, which are those prices, whether they are available, whether they are not available and it is that different countries have different models. They have countries that have models that nature parks must be financially self-sufficient or alone. They have countries that have decided to do something else. So these are the eternal topics that are discussed from the aspect of nature's protection. What is important is what number of consumers suffers daily from a single national park or nature park because if there are too many, then there will be no more. But what I was saying about education is that I'm one of those kids who's supposed to be taking them to national parks and nature parks, you have to teach them. that they really have a relationship to their own nature. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31183	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31184	Dear MPs agree with you, the problem is these tickets, I think it's relatively easy to control the entrance to Plitvice National Park, Krka National Park, but controlling the entrance to Kornati National Park is a little harder. Before 2015, if I was not mistaken when I had some influence on some state policy developments, I suggested that in fact all ships be chipped, all ships that enter Croatia to be chipped more than 4 metres, longer than 4 metres, and that they actually follow their movements along the Adriatic Sea and that those rangers who are down in Kornati National Park should simply be removed because they would be unnecessary when a man enters the area of Krka Park to be automatically charged from his account which he opened to charge him a ticket for that park. However, it was said that it could not go, etc., etc. The problems with the tickets in nature parks will certainly be great because then a large number of our people will never get in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31185	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31186	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, so I would hate to write a small country with a lot of laws and many unnecessary public-legal bodies in the advertising of Croatian tourist communities and national parks themselves, and this is exactly what we are talking about when we are discussing or discussing the adoption of this law. There will be more parks of nature that we will declare and in each of them we will create another institution and for which we will propose and another additional law, and we will never touch what is essential, what is really relevant. How these parks are managed, how they are controlled, how we use them for development and for our economy, and also for some undeveloped areas. What nature parks really should be, could be our trademark, could be the starting point of our national visibility and the fact is that they contain a great, great development potential. And isn't it a bit sad that this week we discussed a new and the first National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia in which nature parks and national parks were managed by not a single concrete sentence. And there were a whole series of special chapters where we could shape what we were going to do and how we would do with nature parks and national parks, but obviously for such a way of thinking there was neither will nor hearing. I agree with this, that education, that healthy life, that different approach of young generations towards sustainable development and conservation of nature and biodiversity. We could have mentioned that in a few chapters. In a chapter in education that's been sub-represented anyway. We could have said something about it in the chapter of a healthy, active, and quality life. We could say something about global visibility and strengthening the international position and role of the Republic of Croatia. So we could through our national parks not only promote the economy, not just promote our national beauty, we could turn national parks into places where specific international scientific research is being conducted. None of that was even mentioned. None of the suggestions were worked out. All we could do as a parliament, and on the proposal of the ruling ones, is come up with that one already established pattern because it represents a line of less resistance, we come up with a law that has only a few articles in which we say the area of nature in Dinara is beautiful, and we want to declare it a park, and that's how we've acted countless times so far. So if I had the opportunity, as has the representative of the RES, I would go into one big turn, unite the public-legal bodies that I previously mentioned, so both the Institute and the Agency and the role of the ministry itself, rationalise what these bodies are doing, combine those functions that intertwine and create one unique model for managing all our nature parks and national parks. She would prescribe the criteria by which someone in those institutions could be employed so that what I referred to was not going on there when I said that they were setting up politically similar rather than capable people. I don't want to degrade anyone because he has a party card, but once you insist here, I'm going to mention Plitvice, let's remember how there was a time-consuming contest selection process where Dado Milinovic had someone he was politically weighing, and the minister of someone else, so whoever was politically stronger is that quack. There was no concern about what was dominantly supposed to be what was proposed and advocated by the profession. What about the other parks? So, I have nothing against a professional if he has a party card, I'm just saying that unfortunately that's not the criteria for choosing who to manage certain institutions, and what happens at lower levels is the unknowns that will remain that way until the day of judgment, and I consider the day on which this government will fall. So, the problem is in a state-leading model that doesn't change, and there's no will to discuss it at all. The real debate on this law would not be about how much we love Dinara, the real debate would be whether we are ready to discuss whether there are better models of governance for our national wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31187	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31188	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm calling in an article. 238, therefore, insults in one way to all party persons, especially from the HDZ ranks which are and priorities convicted of having no expertise and that they do not know how to do any work unless they are assigned in such a way, so to the party's card, and not by the qualifications of those who each of us certainly have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31189	I estimate it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. We have at the last minute an additional two clubs, the first club of representatives of MOST is final, will speak the esteemed Representative Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31190	Here, before I talk about the very law of the final club on the law relating to my end, where I was born, lived, fought in the Homeland War, it's Dinara, with my comrades, I must once again realize that I am truly sorry that the opposition was waiting here and calling for them to finally join the HGK Act...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31191	Buddy Bull, that's not what you need to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31192	...and most of them didn't accept it. As far as I'm concerned, as far as the Law of Declaration itself is concerned, I have made a proposal through an amendment that I believe you will accept or in some form apply it within this proposal to further protect this area from possible hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation or similar to that made within this decision itself, this decision that we will make. Dinara herself for Croatia represents a symbol for the Croatian state or, as I said, not only as a natural violation of the phenomenon that we have on the world phenomenon with all the flora and fauna that we have not to repeat, it has this homeland significance because it is a mountain from which victory occurred, to victory, to the day of victory in '95. It came true through the battle for Dinara. This magnificent neighborhood where I come from, where we have not only Dinara, where we have Kameshnica and Svilaj, where we have fields of many where I come from, of course, and Knin my city where I worked as a Croatian officer in the 4th Guard Brigade for 15 years was really time to declare this. However, we have a problem with what from the Island and the Trill where it starts south to all the way up to Knin, to the red ground and on the top we have a shooting range of military and I've spent a lot of time on that range, but it doesn't fit into some kind of story because it looks like a pipe that, that space, and where the crane and the hotspot are on that part where we're going to shoot and where we're going to have a nature park, and we're going to have a shooting. I suggested that it go to Padjene, there on that cross that were wind power plants so that the army, not the same distance from the military, I know, so we have these wind power plants and there would be an army of targets that would be thrown at there, what would do harm to the Croatian people, two billion kunas that would pay Croatian citizens out of their pockets, and we know what the wind power plants of Krš-Padene are about. He would mention certain rivers, Krka and everything around it, so Krčić and everything we have around him is very, should be protected. Unfortunately, we have NP Krka where Krka river enters from factories, from lagoons that are famous, I have brought here, here I warned, where it enters Krka and all the way to the national park those oils, oily, fuel and it is a disaster that destroys flora and fauna... And in Skradin down there we have this problem, that's what's going to open up the question, already some people from that space and associations are opening up those spaces. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] My river Cetina itself, I said that we have a project of agglomeration, if the events of Croatia's waters and the ministry participated together with the local water line led him to questionability. Croatian waters invited me on Wednesday to a meeting on the issue, which is a huge problem. The river Cetina where 200,000 people drink, uses this water + in tourism goes far to millions of people, and more is the problem with the power of Split from the Adriatic because we have damaged the Adriatic. So it's a wide-ranging job, I hope nature park has something to offer and trust me that Sinj and the Cetin end is the most perspective from Savudria to Prevlaka for life. With several projects along this park of nature that can be used can be most desirable for life, close to Split, a big city with a compound on the highway, which is promised nonstop, no one made, I hope that the end will earn it, will be the most desirable for life. There is a need to promote livestock, not to support Dinara, a breach of that, the karst pastures of those who do not know what the cow looks like, but to encourage local indigenous people to stay alive, of course not to defend the indigenous seed that this government is pushing to ban on the market what is disaster and which is contrary to this law. And as far as the rest of it is concerned, I said it in the debate. I hope you accept my amendment. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31193	The next final debate on behalf of the SDP Club will be the respected representative of Zeljko Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31194	I just called to say a few more sentences since I didn't have time to say everything in my debate. First of all, if it hadn't happened again if I hadn't been able to say that our club would support this law without delay, I've said it before, and I hope that consensus will also be reached for the adoption of all other laws concerning nature parks and I agree with the lady. With the Dalia definitely, it would be convenient if we had one law for all nature parks, and then if we had worked out for every park in particular, especially the documentation needed to define that park. We did something similar with the Law on the Exchange of Secret Data or Classified Data with the State of Portugal where we said we will have one law as a model, and then we will use this law to exchange data with other countries. It would be great if we could apply such a model to these laws regarding nature parks and national parks. It will be a big deal if residents and entrepreneurs from that area understand what are the advantages of declaring this nature park and if they go as soon as possible into projects as we have heard that there are resources in EU funds that can be drawn up for the areas of nature park, for the protection of flora and fauna, for the protection of the environment itself in various ways and for other projects to build some of the facilities needed in these nature parks. It would be great and super good for those residents who are actually in one part of the rural area and are probably helped by the state to get a little bumpy, to wake up a little by themselves and to be a little encouraged by the state to move forward and take a step in the development of these parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31195	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We go to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dental Medicine, first reading, P.Z. No. 47 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 47. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Željko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31202	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. Therefore, the aim of this law is to regulate the interest of dental hygienics and to allow them access to the labour market. In providing dental care as far as we know, healthcare professionals, dental doctors, dental technicians and dental assistants who are also members of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine are involved. This proposal amends and complements the Law on Dental Medicine regulates the membership of dental hygienics in the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. Namely, since 2016. The first generations of dental hygienics were enrolled at the university's pre-graduate extraordinary study of dental hygiene and three completed their education at the University of Osijek Medical School and obtained the academic name of the first-grader of dental hygiene. The university pre-graduate study of dental hygiene completed a generation of students in Rijeka at the University of Rijeka Medical School, now at the Faculty of Dental Medicine. Dental hygienics will not be part of the public health service network or contract entities of HZZO, their presence in the labour market will contribute to the expansion of services and provide additional quality in health tourism. The proposed law prescribes the work of dental hygienics as outside team health associates. A work permit shall also be prescribed and the conditions for issuing it. The implementation of this law has no financial impact on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to this proposal, the name of the competent chamber, which is now referred to as the Croatian dental chamber as present in the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, is aligned with the name of the competent chamber. The following proposed adoption of this legislative proposal. Just one more quick excuse for my clarification. In Croatia there are two studies of dental medicine University pre-graduate study of dental hygiene in Rijeka at the Faculty of Medicine, and now at the Faculty of Dental Medicine and the little older one with this programme of undergraduate studies in Osijek. What is important is to point out that these two studies totalled 20 students and an annual enrolment of 25 students in Osijek, and up to now 88 of our young people have completed this study at these two universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, stay here because you believe or have no more replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Andreja Maric. Here you go. I'm sorry, Boske Ban Vlahek, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31204	I thank the chairman. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I welcome the proposal's intention to include dental hygienists in this law to enable them to work normally and engage in the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. I would just like to stress that education and promotion of preventive oral protection need to be introduced to the public with the importance of dental hygiene both functionally and aesthetically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31205	Thank you. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31206	I absolutely agree with you, and I can also say that I am a member of an extended group at the Ministry of Health who, through his own board or health care or dental medicine, we go through our counties and promote oral hygiene and oral health. So far, research has found that oral hygiene and oral health is not only a local problem and local importance in the oral cavity itself but also a source of many systemic diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31207	The next is the replica of the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31208	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We've heard that this study has been completed by three generations of students in Osijek, one generation in Rijeka, do you have any information on exactly how many students of dental medicine? That's the first part of the question. And secondly, given the large number of competences and activities where dental hygienists can work, and since it is said by this law that there will be no contract entities of the HZZO, whether you have a vision of some kind in the ministry or in the government in which period and how all these people will be able to work on the labour market because here they can be out of health care part of dental offices but can participate in other offices, hospitals and health tourism, so here is a purely vision of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31209	Dear Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31210	Okay, thank you very much, so I think you asked how much of these dental hygienists ended up. I've been listed 88 by our data, maybe in the meantime someone's finished, but that's about the number. As for the employment of these young graduates, we were at the most to say close contact with the dental chamber no matter what it was called and now it is called and precisely on their part, the initiative itself has passed because they know that on the market it is very necessary to do the daily job in dental medicine. So there's no fear that these youngsters of ours won't be able to get a job, yet they'll be very wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31211	The next replica of the respected representative, Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31212	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, regulation of the profession of dental hygienics is important to allow them access to the labour market or employment in dental medicine institutions. The benefits are also for dental medicine doctors who will be more able to devote themselves to some sick conditions and treatment, but since there will be no contracting entities of HZZO here to expect that they will mainly be employed in private offices and those who are mostly focused on health tourism, it is certainly important from an economic aspect, but as well as a colleague before me, I am interested in what can be expected in the perspective of whether this interest will sometimes be part of the public health care network in order to protect citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31213	Dear Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31214	Medicine tends to have many, many procedures, and many of them I would say so far on the medical level, regardless of whether it was medicine or dentistry, they move to lower professional structures precisely because of the development of job sophistication in the medical service would allow them to deal with these very jobs. Therefore, not only will this increase the ability to do sophisticated dental work for these doctors but it is also possible for one of me to say better preparation for all of these jobs that the doctor must do afterwards because without dental and oral hygiene you cannot begin any dental surgery and be absolutely sure of its outcomes. So I don't think there's any fear, if one day it's going to come into the contract, that's going to depend on me thinking from development and studies and market needs. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31215	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected MPs Irena Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31216	Dear Vice-President, honourable secretary, how you justify the finding that the implementation of this law has no financial effect on the state budget, while respecting that dental hygienists are extra-timal health associates who will not be contract entities of the HZZO, as you said, knowing that we have opened two studies at Osijek and Rijeka medical schools since 2015, and in the content of the drafts, it is clear that we are planning to open another new one. Right now, we have four generations of people who are just now being regulated by the status, and I think we need to do a serious analysis of the need for this activity by essentially self-awareness of our society about the activities of dental hygienists who, according to this law, have no ability to get permission to work on their own, right? for six years so you don't create excesses, right... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31217	The reply of the respected Secretary of State, Plazonic, thank you very much, thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31218	Now I have to admit I haven't been able to remember all the questions you asked me. But I repeat that fact I've said before. We were primarily animated by the dental chamber and their members to access that dental hygiene study. They have shown this as their need, and the fact is that it is an interest that is present in many EU countries and that is why and because of the usefulness of such an interest, by developing dental medicine as a whole they will probably have very much I would say the possibility of modernising my knowledge in that domain. As for the financial aspect and their future licenses, I think the process of their work will show how important they are, how much it takes to be regulated in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31219	The following is the replica of the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31220	Therefore, it is clear that this law is passed in order to leave another additional interest on the market, and I really hope that dental hygienists will be as needed and requested, but I believe that I am obliged to warn that we in Croatia often have a big gap between what is written in the law as opportunities and rights and real practices. In fact, dental hygienists can only perform some simpler procedures, and many of our dentists have major problems with how to finance their activities and their work. Since dental hygienists will not be burdened by HZZO, they are in fact one super standard and the question is which dental clinics will be able to hire such an employee because it is more cost-effective for them to hire another doctor who can generate income with his work. Are you planning to introduce some kind of change into the dental medicine funding system? which would solve and address this problem? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31221	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31222	I would say that the level of work, which dental hygienists will perform, is very important not only in curative but primarily in preventing and maintaining and developing a culture of oral cavity health or oral hygiene as a whole. I've said it before, and I wouldn't want to elaborate it further because we don't have time for it, or time, that only in the oral cavity, you have about 700 types of virus, bacteria, fungi, and the total of their presence is about 6 to 7 billion, it's proven that they have a whole series of systemic illnesses that then go deep into the medicine itself, so I think that their preventive work and their pergative work together with the dentist will have a very, very great meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31223	And the last replicas of the respected representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31224	My dear secretary, I don't think it's at all questionable whether this profession is necessary or not, I don't think it's questionable whether or not our citizens need help from these experts. However, we've had one get since the age of 4, so we knew we'd be training these people, we didn't prepare jobs for them, even though these jobs exist in the EU. People finished that schooling, they got diplomas. Do you know how many we lost in the meantime, how many left Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31225	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31226	I believe that no one knows because if we didn't have dental hygienists, then we couldn't even lose them. Whether it was a trunk or not, each, every newspaper has its own administrative course to respect, and also some standards need to be met in order for you to open up some new study at all. The fact is that we now have one agreement between the two ministries that is extremely important to me, and that is the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Health that every new study must be in line with the view of the Ministry of Health at our universities is otherwise we can get the situation that people who simply cannot find their place on the labour market in medicine can be educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31227	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate, you can state secretaries in your place, and the first one on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Dretar, don't let anything happen to you with and with a sorry kiss.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31228	It's a little bit, I have to admit, it's not easy, but it'll pass. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In any case, we should welcome the introduction of one, one new profession such as dental hygienists. However, during the reading of this bill, several ideas certainly need to exist and it is clear that they can complement the team or medical team in a dental laboratory or office. My recommendation would be that dental hygienists participate in preschool and school education and the youngest age groups. It is known to everyone that early education and the creation of lifelong habits, regular dental health concerns are the foundation and future healthy populations. In the event of obtaining authorisation for independent work i.e. licenses dental hygienics could offer their services to private kindergartens and schools, and perhaps co-operate with the state education system by working on education of the youngest age categories. Unfortunately, the availability of dental services is not the same everywhere in our country, but teams of dental hygienics could easily cover the entire Croatian presence in local schools or health homes, perhaps through mobile educational teams. Dental technicians who have graduated from high school have the possibility to open private laboratories, for now, at least according to this bill dental hygienists who have completed a three-year study cannot do so. I can't even have a private office and they're not even part of the dental team. For example, let us look at some developed European countries that have enabled their dental hygienists to open private offices. Since we're trying to track developed countries, I don't see any reason why we don't make the same thing possible here for dental technicians. Let's say the Republic of the Netherlands by the age of 18. to dental hygienics, it fully refunds the costs of prevention of oral diseases from primary insurance, since this is obviously more economical. Dental hygienists have more affordable and affordable prices of their services than dental medicine doctors. Besides, education for dental hygienist is shorter, which is, of course, cheaper, 3 academic years compared to 6. as much as dental doctors are trained. And certainly, of course, the cost of preventive procedures by dental doctor is a little higher. Dental hygienist frees time to a doctor, leads to a reduction in health costs. What we certainly cannot be satisfied with is the extremely poor position of our 12-year-olds, and we are at the bottom of the European scales, unfortunately by so-called. kep index, so caris extraction fillings, even 4.51. Even more difficult and devastating results have older age groups of 15, 35 to 45 and 65 to 75 years. The fact that we have the worst kep index speaks of a very poorly managed strategy and prevention and preservation of oral health. The current system promotes a curative orientation, not a preventive action that ultimately leads to a reduction in health costs. The most important problem is the lack of mandatory preventive procedures and procedures, and the lack of personnel to deal with this problem. Therefore, the first-grader of dental hygiene should be a person who will motivate and teach the patient proper maintenance of oral health and conduct preventive procedures. Prevention procedures should include easily available preventive checks, courses and workshops on oral hygiene in kindergartens and schools, as well as for all persons with their natural teeth. Allow me to pass on the message of the Croatian Dental Technicians' Association and their position on this bill in an e-mail that I received from their president. Animal Radic. For years, they point to the decommissioning of budget funds to a non-functional, poor and destructive dental policy designed and imposed by a dental medicine chamber. I repeat again, it is therefore the official position of the Croatian Dental Technicians Association regarding this law. They came up with a practice that is nowhere in the world, contract doctors with HZZO receive around 3,800 salaries for which they have nothing to do, not even open an office, all the services provided in their section are additionally paid. Dental technicians The Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine kicked out of the health system in 1998 and made them claim, slaved on the labour market, to transfer three quarters of their products into the doctors' pockets additionally to the already existing salary. By this year hundreds of thousands of prosthetics were taken from the hands of patients, transferred to the pockets of dentists. The new Health Protection Act is in force from 1. In January 2019, which brought dental technicians back to the health system is unfortunately a dead letter on paper. Now what does that have to do with dental hygienists? So let me read you one of their statistics. We currently have dental personnel for as many as two Croatians, we have 4 dental studies of cca 6,000 doctors of dental medicine who are already a little full of labour markets. In EU countries, a doctor of dental medicine comes to 1,500 inhabitants, with us one in 700 to 800. We have 9 schools for dental technicians and several retraining centres that produce 100 to 120 technicians every year. Croatia has about 2,000 registered, and the actual number is unknown and probably far higher. So dental technicians are an unregulated profession. We have 260 orthodonts for 2.5 of Croatia. There are only 20 left in the public health care system. The largest number of children are unreachable from orthodontic services. I believe you all know who you've had or have teenage children who want machines. The machine in this country is very, very hard to get. With this large number of dental personnel enough for two Croatians, Croatia is as I said and I will repeat, the latest on the nation's oral health scale among EU members. So, these are indicators of the poor policy of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, which is financed by budgetary means and the reason why we, as MPs of the Homeland Movement, are still proposing, which will support amendments and push the major amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Dental Medicine. It is time to manage budget resources rationally and responsibly, not to meet its elite and megalomaniac appetites by a rich click through the chamber and public means. We demand once again speaking on behalf of the Association of Dental Technicians of Croatia, as well as the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the return of dental technicians to the dental team, the exit from the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine and the establishment of its own chamber of dental technicians. Of course, we will also make all these proposals into amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31229	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Celic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. The relevant Act on Dental Medicine lays down the structure and conditions for the pursuit of the activity of dental medicine. In addition to dental medicine, dental technicians and dental assistants, the interest of dental hygienist is regulated. As the secretary of state said, this initiative comes from the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. What is a potential problem is that we already had a study of dental hygienist, and the law did not regulate that area, which is now regulated by these amendments and additions to the Law on Dental Medicine. The profession of dental hygienist occurs from the moment it was found that oral health can be promoted through regular professional preventive protection, patient motivation, plaque control education, professional prophylactic protection and not surgical paradoxic therapy require time and practical expertise and are rarely conducted by dental doctors. The oral hygiene movement began in 1843. in the U.S. when some American dental doctors started recruiting assistants for preventive services. Founder of this movement, i.e. The father of dental hygiene was Dr. Alfred Fons who recognized the importance of preserving oral health and the importance of educating children on proper maintenance of oral hygiene due to dental disease prevention. A law defining dental hygiene was passed in New York more than 100 years ago, so 1916, and the first license for dental hygienist was issued in 1917. It's as clean as a courio, a movement that's connected to mental hygiene was also created in 1843. by Dr. William Switzer and he took the big move at the beginning of the 20th century. The first company for mental hygiene was founded in Zagreb in 1933. Dental hygienists are health professionals with completed university pre-graduate study of dental hygiene on where it can now be completed that study was spoken by State Secretary Dr. It's a plasma. Dental hygienics are trained to implement oral health promotion programmes, prevention of oral cavity disease and education on the importance of maintaining oral hygiene. As healthcare professionals, they can apply their skills and skills in different areas of clinical practice, professional and scientific research, public health care and numerous forms of promotion of health and disease prevention. Dental hygienists work with dental doctors and other members of health professions to provide oral health care to a patient who is associated with general health. According to the European Paradentological Association, dental hygienist may perform both the practice and polishing of teeth, the cleaning of stones and deposits, the application of prophylactic materials on teeth, the setting of temporary fillings or crowns, the collection of data, the provision of extensive advice related to oral hygiene and oral care, dental radiography, fingerprinting and certain orthodonal duties. The demand for dental hygienists and their contribution to oral health has increased in recent decades. The training for dental hygienist in Europe is constantly improving, so the role and scope of the procedures performed by dental hygienist is constantly changing. Greater expectations regarding oral health as well as awareness of the link between oral and general health contribute to the growing need for these professions. Dental hygienists help relieve dental medicine doctors by performing procedures they have been trained in due to an increasing number of patient visits. Prevention of soft tissue and supportive dental apparatus and loss of permanent teeth are very important in the preservation of general health, so routine checks are needed to give dental hygienists the opportunity to compare the health condition of a person. On how they are regulated, I think that these amendments and additions to the Law on Dental Medicine are in line with the vast majority of EU member states, while, for example, in the United States dental hygienists carry out their own activities. Since this proposed law regulates the interest of dental hygienics, it also means the opening of new jobs, the effect is proportionate to the number of persons who finish schooling for dental hygienics and has already been mentioned before, so this will have special significance for dental tourism. The HDZ Club will support amendments and additions to the Dental Medicine Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31231	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of HSLS and Reformist on behalf of whom the respected representative Darko Klasic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31232	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The aim of the proposed law is to regulate the interest of dental hygienics and enable their access to the labour market which is intended to contribute as we have heard the protection of oral health and increase the quality of health care in dental health care. As we all know, the CAPE index of the population of the Republic of Croatia is extremely poor and the sequence of which the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine assessed the profession as a dental hygienist as necessary and necessary in dental offices and predicted that it performs procedures from the sealing of fissures, soft and hard deposits as well as that it deals with adult education itself in relation to oral hygiene which is unfortunately at a low level with us. This initiative is certainly welcome, but here I also have several doubtful decisions that are indicated by some of the proposed acts of the Chamber of Dental Medicine as well as the vaguely defined decision on the real and operational application of this type of activity as well as the impact on the state budget itself, although we have heard that there will be no... in HZZO activity. First, I will refer to an undefined and undefined framework of the work of dental hygienist who is not clearly positioned on the labour market, his mode of work, employment and financial justification of the same which can have a direct impact on the budget as I said, and in the field of dental medicine, the smallest share of the coverage of healthcare services is today, as we ourselves know especially in the procedures for health insurance. You know for a fact that this part is worst covered as far as HZZO is concerned with dental services to our citizens. The number of dental workers already significantly exceeds the average number of both dental medical doctors and dental technicians and assistants compared to the EU average. Since this law does not provide for as well as the Health Protection Act to enable the opening of private dental hygiene offices as outside of team health associates, it is obvious that the first-graders of dental hygiene will need to be included in the labour market as part of the activities of some HZZO and the implementation of this law will have a safe and financial impact on the state budget, as well as on the HZZO budget itself. What is really important, and which we must not ignore and which I will look back on, are the legal solutions that are prescribed by the mandatory membership of the chamber and the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine that allow the authorisation to be granted to all healthcare professionals in dental medicine, which is so far present, but also to determine the minimum cost of work as well as to make it impossible for members of the chamber to appeal to decisions of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine itself, which I find extremely questionable. We had a chance to discuss the issue of HGK the day before yesterday, and today, while this is about a professional chamber with an example of far greater series of powers than it is about HGK. Because of this solution, many members of the chamber will say that they actually pay taxes on diplomas. They have acquired professional education, and then they are subject to membership and the setting up of barriers from which professional chambers have special interests for which they have taken... the resolution or the legislator. I'm going to name just some of the examples of significant barriers I've read from this amendment to the law, so we have an art. 36.b. to the ‘dental technician who has passed the expert exam and which is entered in the register of dental technicians of the chamber will be granted authorisation for the independent work of the licence’ in order to write in the second sentence ‘Authorisation for independent work to a dental technician gives or withholds the administrative act of the body by a certain statute of the chamber against the administrative act referred to in Article 4. This article is not allowed to appeal but can be initiated by an administrative dispute." Art. 36. The same applies to a dental hygienist. Art. 37.a. is also amended as follows: "dental technicians, dental assistants, dental hygienists who carry out the activity of dental technician, assistant and dental hygienist in the Republic of Croatia are required to join the relevant professional class at the chamber". Art. 42. The chamber performs the following public powers, giving, performing, withdrawing the authorisation for the independent work of dental medical doctors, dental technicians, dental assistants, but also determining the lowest price of the work of dental medicine doctor outside the public health service network, determines the lowest price of the dental technician, determines the lowest price of dental service with dental medicine doctor outside the network of public health services for dental medicine. It is similar to what happened to us and will likely soon come to the Croatian Parliament as regards the prices brought by actually the chamber, the law chamber in the Republic of Croatia and which is contrary to EU principles. In fact, these articles of the law legalise the monopoly chamber over the profession and the activity that allows the chamber to determine labour permits as well as the lowest labour prices, which can be devastating for the profession as it is impossible and unknown in the EU countries and which prevents market freedoms and competition. On top of all the above, some professional chambers are part of a non-transparent system within which many of them are not accountable to anyone for their repressive and restrictive actions towards at least some members. The powers of the chamber are also disputed, as you have seen above in the abovementioned articles of this proposed law. So, that old folk cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you, it's all actually in good faith to lead the professional chamber itself. That's why we at HSLS are in favour of transparency and deregulation of the work of all chambers. The vast majority of this topic was never interested, and on the other hand there are many members of the profession who disagree with such restrictive and repressive systems that make competition difficult. Also, the restoring ministries often passively observe such practices and feel powerless to change laws that actually, in many cases, professional chambers write for themselves, and then give them to resolutions to send them into the procedure. As we see here the same thing as this law significant role played by the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31233	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Andreja Maric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31234	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the aim of the proposed law is to regulate the interest of dental hygienist, provide them with access to the labour market, which will contribute to the protection of oral health and increase the quality of health services in dental healthcare, and we certainly support this. The profession of dental hygienics has been recognised as necessary and necessary in the dental offices of large part of EU countries, and consequently the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine was the initiator of the launch of the curricula process and the standard of qualifications for the occupation of dental hygienist. This law regulates the interest of dental hygienics and allows them to access the labour market. It regulates the work of dental hygienics as external health associates who, as we have heard, will not be contract entities of HZZO. And this is what they really put on the open labour market, but as it is said they are wanted and we believe that there will be no problems for employment. This law also regulates their membership in the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, prescribes work permits and conditions for its issue. All these changes are a step forward and rely on the practice of a number of European countries, although we are still a step behind a number of countries in the EU, and certainly in America they have made little progress, and we believe that by further legislative changes, we will further improve the existing law, or the one that we are changing. The expert chambers of opinion are that through the affairs of dental hygienics some of the jobs such as. The cleaning and whitening of teeth that have been performed only by dentists so far will play a role in preparing patients for examination by dental doctor, and in preventing oral health, etc. In this way, three generations of students who completed their studies at the Faculty of Medicine in Osijek will be employed, and 1 generation at the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Rijeka, here's the secretary of state said that it was some 88 people, and for the sake of great interest in the above profile of experts there is a legitimate interest in other universities, and now we don't know which colleges are interested, how many and in what period. In any case, the effect on job openings is proportionate to the number of persons who finish schooling. The dental hygienists so far are not members of the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine, and therefore it is necessary to amend and supplement the current Law on Dental Medicine to include this new profile of healthcare professionals or dental hygienics, and the law says that the professional class of dental technicians and professions of the class of dental assistants and dental hygienicians is not the same as is unclear here as they are in this same professional class. The implementation of this law has no financial effect on the State budget of the Republic of Croatia since the activities of dental medicine in the network of public health services make up the doctor of dental medicine and nurse technician or dental assistant. So, the law says that dental hygienist is an outsider health associate who will not be burdened by HZZO, so there will be no fiscal impact on the financial plan. But the cost of the study should certainly be included, so here we can't say that it's all for free. However, a higher quality dental care is expected, given that a dental hygienist is more independent than a dental assistant in doing his jobs. We certainly expect better oral and overall health of the population. So the SDP Club will support the proposal of this law, however, I certainly must say what open issues and objections we are coming to and from our own reflections, and certainly also by reading all those considerations in public consultation, so that there is an impression that there are some ambiguities and objections at the level of dental technicians, dental, dental doctors or dental hygienists. So here, dental assistants and dental hygienists can't be carriers of private practice, and dental technicians can. But dental technicians are dissatisfied with the existing treatment and price list. So according to this existing Health Protection Act is so, so dental technicians can't go into privates, there will probably be a need for that law to change. Also dental hygienists can't work without the supervision of dental doctors, and in some countries they can. In better developed countries, many patients especially children and young people are treated only by dental hygienists. Dental hygienists can actually work in numerous environments, general and specialist offices of dental medicine, hospital systems, public health programs, research centres, educational institutions, colleges, health homes, dental industry, homes for older and powerless, kindergartens, schools, participation in the development of health tourism is expected. If you have read that public consultation in one place, 65 of their various activities and competences have been counted, we hope that the labour market will recognise this, but not only the labour market, but also the government, respectively, of the relevant ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31235	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31236	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Finally, we have come to the conclusion that in a growing number of laws, we can say that it is not a matter of what the law says but of the real problem lies in things that the law itself has not touched. So no one here is two of the benefits of dental hygienics, in general I believe that in our health system we pay insufficient attention to prevention, insufficient financial means to prevent isolation, obviously the part of Croatian politics has given up long ago, if not decades and would support efforts that would go towards changing that. So, I welcome the entry into the market of dental hygienics, but the question of the availability of this level of health dental service is, for a number of offices, one above standard unless it is financed from the funds provided for public health, the question is, will they be interested in what you have announced in your opening statement? But what is really a question is the role and position of chambers. So I have listened carefully to the presentations of all the constituency clubs so far, special attention has been drawn to what Darko Klasic said on behalf of the HSLS and Reformers Club on how to actually view the role and compulsory membership, and also in the authority of the chamber in relation to individual branches and activities, I really hope that they will remain consistent with their thoughts and attitudes that are publicly expressed today and for this speaker on their part. We also heard that in this case dental hygienists complain that the dental medicine chamber is not performing its activities in their favor. We have also heard that the Health Protection Act is a dead letter on paper, and that is usually a common case in the Republic of Croatia and what I often point to, so there is no point in adopting even good legal proposals unless their implementation is to live in practice. And what we really should be discussing, I agree that this is not something that is written in this law, nor is it thought about, is really the role of professional chambers, the issue of compulsory membership, compulsory membership, regulatory activities that kind of penetrate the border that the state itself is performing in some countries, in which organisations that form a ceva or ceva. Today, on some other topics, we have touched on the issues of chambers and their membership fees. I believe that the first step is to take account of all the objections that have been raised so far in the public debate, and then to consider models and the scope of the level of health services financed by HZZO. I also suggest that we consider the introduction and some new models that would allow our citizens as users, as insurance companies to choose to what level to which they will be able to take their service to someone in the insurance system who had contracted with HZZO or perhaps the same service by the voucher system, we may be able to open up a bigger space for employment and dental technicians in that way, given that from everything we could hear from the office, this represents a higher standard for them, that their jobs are already being done by assistants, and that it is more cost-effective for them to pay for who actually enables this office to function profitablely, in any case these are doctors, these are assistants, not dental, dental hygies. In any case, more accounts should be made on these circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31237	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate and the first one will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31238	Thank you, Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I welcome the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Dental Medicine Act, which aims to improve the health care system and also increase the quality of health services in the field of dental medicine in the Republic of Croatia. The profession of dental hygienist is over 100 years old. The main role of hygienics is to promote oral health and prevention of oral diseases, therefore it is clear that dental hygienics should be integrated into dental medical systems, primarily to contribute to the reduction of oral diseases. In addition, surgeons in public health settings can positively influence patient quality by offering him preventive services. Since the work of dental hygienics is not regulated by any normative act, this proposal regulates the interest of dental hygienics and thus enables them to access the labour market, which will ultimately contribute to the protection of oral health and to increasing the quality of health services in dental healthcare. The legal basis for the draft law is found in the National Classification of Interests. The profession of dental hygienics has long been recognised as necessary and necessary in the dental offices of large part of the EU countries, followed by which the Croatian Chamber of Dental Medicine was also the initiator of the launch of the curricula process and the standard of qualifications for the occupation of dental hygienicists. As we have heard before, in the Republic of Croatia we have the University of Osijek and in Rijeka where the first-graders of dental hygiene are educated. The integration of dental hygienics into the health care system will allow for an increase in the standards of oral health in the Republic of Croatia as visible from examples of EU countries that have done so long ago and achieved this. The adoption of the law therefore expects better dental care, given that dental hygienist, compared to dental assistant, is more independent in performing his duties since his activity includes preparing patients for examination with dental medical doctor and all other auxiliary activities and jobs according to the instructions and orders of dental doctor. Also, the amendment and addition of the Law on Dental Medicine will regulate the profession, as I have already said, which will have an effect on the opening of new jobs, and this opens up the possibility of health tourism and of course that this effect will be proportionate to how many of those who complete this education will be. From the whole debate today even though every club has its own view of this law, but it can be concluded, which I am glad, that all clubs will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31239	Thank you very much. We have some replicas. The first one is respected MPs Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31240	Thank you very much. Although it is already a step in the right direction to involve dental hygienics in the Dental Medicine Act, I believe that private offices should be opened for educational and preventive use of dental hygiene.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31241	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31242	Well, I think every beginning is good, so so is this. The prerequisite at all, until yesterday we didn't even have a defined interest in dental hygienist, by adopting this legal solution we open that profession, and then I believe what year it will come to exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31243	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31244	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. I welcome the regulation of dental hygienist's profession as a new profile of healthcare professionals. As a healthcare professional, I would like to point out that all investment in prevention is extremely important. Since these people we're discussing today, dental hygienists are actually going to be their major part of prevention in dentistry. I think it's very important and should be pointed out. Investment in prevention is investing in a better health picture of our nation, so this, once again, I ask you to repeat and say why this is really a prevention, this is the most important part of this part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31245	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31246	Well, I think it's been said a few times today, but as they say, it's not bad to say it again. I believe that the article of the Law states exactly what the activity of dental hygienist is and that it actually includes preparing patients for examination with dental medicine, meeting patients with preventive oral, prevention of oral health, so these are ways of cleaning teeth, use of dental ends, dental brushes, etc., cleaning soft and hard deposits on teeth, i.e. tooth whitening, all other auxiliary shops and jobs according to the instructions and orders of dental medicine doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31247	The next replica of respected MPs Irena Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31248	... I didn't? [[Specially enabled.]] Oh, thank you. According to the proposal of this Act, the professional class of dental assistants becomes a common professional class of dental assistants and dental hygienists. Dental assistants are part of an office team, while hygienists are outside team associates. Some have high school education, others have higher education. Do you think this is quality, i.e. A good solution by putting them in the same structural class? Furthermore, I also support that dental hygienists, when we already have, is there this activity, to enable them, if desired, to establish private practice, means except that they get not only a work permit, but a license for independent work, i.e. License? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31249	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31250	Well, thank you for that replica. I'm going to repeat about as much as I just replicated to your colleague from the club, right? Until yesterday, we had a situation where we trained first-graders dental hygienists, and we had not yet regulated such a job in law. So we're doing a big step, we're doing a shift, we're doing what's necessary at this point. And in time, I guess for a while, it's going to be a year, five or ten, but I'm sure all of what you've listed will come to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31251	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected MPs Martina Opačak Bilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31252	Thank you. Well, of course, it's important that dental hygienists get a job, that every home of health has a few dental hygienists who would actually do dental cleaning, foridation, etc. Because that way, dentists will be relieved, and prevention will be much better. What I would like to point out in this individual debate is that in the conversation with the profession, I noticed after consulting them that, above all, they welcome and are glad that the issue of dental medicine has come on the agenda in HS, although they stress that Croatia is in the last place in Europe according to dental health and that since the 1990s, the state of dental health in Croatia has not changed much since the 1990s. What bothers them and what I want to deliver today is to say their message and I believe that there will be a change in that, so on. DTP or diagnostic-therapy procedures where dentists write about each patient who did what HZO pays them, but the problem is that they have a limited number for one patient a day or they could do a lot more, but then they are not paid. Thus, patients would have to come to the office less than once, as much more could be done in one visit. Here I believe that this proposal will come soon for discussion and change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31253	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As I have announced in taking a position after the vote has been cancelled, we will remain in the assembly until the end if the vote happens to continue. The SDP club will support this Dental Medicine Act and is now further updated. So, after we have introduced or suggest the introduction of dental hygienics, I think that more hygienicians should be introduced in the political space that have to do with dental because what has been said today after the end of the vote really deserves serious cleaning and serious hygiene from the various mouths of spoken sentences. Bringing about someone's struggle for life with legitimate parliamentary struggle and insistence on respect That's right, and the subject is dental hygienists. [[/Intruder Reiner: Comrade Bauk you have made a mistake this is not a free speech. We're talking about amendments to the Law on Dental Medicine.]] Did I get that right? Well, in every sentence, I mention a dental hygienist, so I can go on. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, then stick to the topic.]] Now you're a little bit of a thought to me. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then to conclude, a legitimate political struggle is to support the introduction of dental hygienics, and according to the subject, it is to ask for the introduction of political dental hygienics to say nothing in the ether. So either the prime minister apologizes or I go first to the dental hygienist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31255	The respected representative, Grba Bujevic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31256	... A topic that had nothing to do with this, so here I think colleague Bauk deserves a warning. [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31257	Well, I told him that, and he's aware of it, he's been here too long in this assembly so he doesn't know he's abused this situation. However, I am not to be drawn up at this late hour with anyone who abuses the institution, any institution, the democratic institution of this House. We will conclude the debate on this point. You're up, I'm sorry. Here's a colleague of Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31258	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. In 238, he even insulted us all in some way as if we hadn't been present here today and I think if someone had to apologize, then it's in the first place that he and the opposition clubs have practically stopped us from passing a law that helps people in Sisak-Moslavina County who can't expect us to pass that law, and they stopped us from doing it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-29-1.u31259	Thank you very much. Here's what I said I had on it. I would now conclude a debate on amendments and additions to the Law on Dental Medicine and we will vote on this law when the conditions are met. We don't have to vote right now like some people think they have to. But we'll keep working next week on Wednesday 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 70. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 15:37 p.m.
