ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42733	I thank the media representatives. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm opening the seventh session of HS, I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and other members present and members of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 6th session of HS have been received by electronic means. Any objections to the record? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 6th session of HS in the proposed text. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. In the final draft agenda, I included 17 new points under regular numbers 8, 9, 10, 13, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28, and points 69 to 73 and points 78, 80 and 84. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure will be decided on a bill proposed by the applicant in an emergency procedure. This is point 1. Final draft agenda, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 128. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? If there are no objections, I shall determine that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda I have proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda shall be in accordance with Article. 225 C. 3. The Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to have been established. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 225th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of Appeal may be submitted in writing only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. In accordance with the article referred to above, the Green-Left Block Representatives Club submitted a written complaint at point 13. Information on a summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026, which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session proposing to return it to the promoter in the process, since it contains a summary rather than a full document. However, this proposal cannot be accepted because it is only information on the draft National Plan, which the government has sent on the basis of. 123. The Rules of Procedure shall inform the representatives and the public of the development of this important document. So this document came to the Prime Minister's initiative so that MPs at this stage, the document has not yet been adopted, informed and the Croatian public about what the government is planning to do and it is also called what you saw from the document Information on the summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026. Here you go, fellow Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42734	I thank you, Mr. President. So we're consistent. 225. The Rules of Procedure sent the objection because it is a point of information on the summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Why? Because it is a document based on which Croatia will withdraw the potential power of €6.3 billion over the next few years and it is a document based on the reform processes that are a condition for the withdrawal of these funds. Reform processes always assume legislative activities that are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the assembly, so neither the president nor the Prime Minister, but rather the RS parliament. That is why we believe that this assembly deserves and has an obligation to discuss the whole document, not its summary, and that sending a summary is a reduction in the role of the assembly. For this reason, I think that you should, since you've already taken that authority to send the applicants to the processing of documents and this time send [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] That document at work. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleagues Bencic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42735	It's your right and your assessment, but I don't agree with it because it's a government document that shouldn't have come to HS at all. At the government's initiative, he came to the HS in this preliminary debate and will be presented to MPs and MPs. So this is about an act and an act in some way of goodwill and the wishes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to inform both HS and the public about what it is doing. So this is a government document we shouldn't have discussed, but we're discussing it. So, if you think I'm wrong, you'll have to contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Comrade Kristo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42736	Mr. Chairman, 30. is from the aggression of the Republic of Serbia and members of the Croatian Serb ethnic minority in Croatia and I think it would be polite and necessary for us to at least show our respect through minutes of silence and through minutes of prayer for those who gave their lives and for which we ultimately have the opportunity to sit in this high house today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42737	Comrade Kristo, thank you for your suggestion, but this is not foreseen in the agenda, nor is it the Croatian Parliament ever worked, I express my condolences for all of us who have suffered from aggression, but I think you have now taken this opportunity for something that was not quite appropriate because we are currently determining the agenda and what you have suggested has absolutely nothing to do with it. A fellow coat of arms, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42738	Your Honor, Mr. President, you have injured an officer. 225. Rules of Procedure. Therefore, you may consider that the objection is based or unfounded, but whether you consider it based or unfounded, the Parliament must decide on this objection. Since the objection has been filed in a valid manner, I think the Parliament should decide on the objection they have made from the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42739	It is again your opinion that I disagree with because it is known which points the Croatian Parliament decides on, these are those points that are taken by emergency procedure and there is no emergency procedure here. So this is about the government's initiative to inform the public about the development of this important document and colleagues of the coat of arms, please sit down. ... Have a seat. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You're getting your first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42740	.../Option Grbin: Read Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42741	Now you'll get a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42742	... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42743	Have a seat. Have a seat. A fellow coat of arms, you get a third warning. ... [[Intruder Grbin: Dear Mr. President,...]] Have a seat. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Have a seat. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You do this one more time, I'll shut you out of the debate for the whole day. I think you're being completely inappropriate. Three warnings you've received. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 228(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I announce that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42767	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42768	Forgive us, Nicole. Forgive us, little girls, for we haven't built a system of institutions in 30 years since we have a country to protect your young, innocent life from the angry hands of a murderer with our expertise and knowledge. We haven't heard your cry, and we haven't heard your cry for help. And why didn't we? We're not because our party card controls lives, a plastic piece of paper that clearly doesn't have feelings, a paper that tramples everything in front of it and doesn't hear tears of banished, needy, or abused to death like you. How many victims of a party card that the public never found out about? How many will they be until this people decide to end tyranny over their own destiny? Is the late-replaced director of the New City Centre for Social Care as a prominent member of HDZ a man who has shown a whole set of political skills by which this party is recognizable in the Croatian public from the cover-up and concealment of the seriousness of the situation, to the open presentation of lies and half-truths of his party card, or is he still a free man who should have recognised, thanks to his professional competences, that the bruises on the body of a two-year-old girl and uncontrolled vomiting call for an alert? I remind you, he first claimed that a girl might have done it herself because she was prone to auto-aggression, so she probably hurt herself. But the criminal investigation has made it clear that the girl was brutally beaten. He claimed that the tragedy was not in any way a sign that the center was doing everything according to the regulations. However, the Family Ministry’s inspection surveillance within 24 hours showed that there were many signs that suggested that the centre’s services had committed a number of failures that led to the tragedy. With a pretty good chance, we can assume that this tragedy would not have happened if the director of the Social Care Centre in Novi Gradiška had been chosen according to a professional line rather than a political resemblance. Because what's perfectly clear is the fact that the principal became headmaster because of the party card. The same was the president of the new city branch and a member of the HDZ Central Committee. In 2004, he was also an assistant to the then HDZ Minister for the Jadranka Kosor Family. Later, HDZ president of the City Council of Nova Gradiška. Forgive us, Nicole, for we blame ourselves for creating a system like this by doing and doing it. We are guilty because we voted for his creators or simply, by our failure to go to the elections, we have allowed him to rot and the nakaradic system continues to kill its victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42900	The next Club of Representatives will be that green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Rada Boric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42901	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Today on World Health Day, we need to remind ourselves of what Andrew Printer said about health. He said that health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, not just the absence of disease. Andrija Stampar said that in the middle of the last century, and he understood what the rulings didn't understand today. As they don't understand, the tragedy that ended with the death of a 2.5-year-old girl caused this government to care less about the welfare system, or we could say too much concern for the system of the social security centres. Tragedy could be prevented and understood by what would be health and what it would be like for the press to say social well-being or social health. But since there are no fundamental reforms in other systems such as health, education and justice, then we witness the daily growth of violence against both children and intermediate violence, violence against women or domestic violence, violence against older people, violence and sexual harassment both at the university and at the workplace, violence against different, LGBT persons, ethnic minorities, violence, violence, violence and violence. So what kind of healthy society can it be if the escalation of violence is further enhanced and some natural violence as we now witness in the pandemic where the health situation and the social protection situation has deteriorated further? On the slowness and ineffectiveness of current social care reforms to the low allocation of budgetary resources for the system of care, here we have seen now and around, around recovery and resilience only 4% will be given to both the labour market and social care. Not to mention the inaccessibility of social services, not to mention regional inequality in providing these same services, or in the absence of them at all, that we are not talking about poor cross-sectoral cooperation between different parts of the system, but has already warned and now already the former attorney general, the lawyer and we are not here even the '19 report. It's not from the '20s. We chose a new one, and in 2019, she also made a recommendation about the brutal violence against the children of Pag, which at that time caused whether or not this and numerous reactions and criticisms, because it was done by a public defender that should be done. And what changed in 2 years.? Nothing at all. Instead of fully reforming the system, all reforms so far have been only partial, strategies have been adopted, projects have been implemented, and after every change of government, continuity has been lost, not only strategic documents but also work to improve this system if we can even talk more about the system because it has slowed down and modernised the system, they have often changed and complemented regulations that have made it more difficult for professionals to work and quotes, it says in the recommendation, in certain centres professional workers work with twice the number of users than is prescribed, and compared with European standards, the situation is even worse and it is questionable whether they are able to take quality and timely actions that are in their work. She warned, there were fewer colleagues these days, Natasha Škaričić, that at the Center for Social Care, Nova Gradiška comes to one employee 300 people, 1/3 of the business is bureaucratic and is not in the centre's jurisdiction, 1 to 2 psychologists cover the area with 50,000 to 60,000 inhabitants, one emergency team is available on one shift, in Nova Gradiška General Hospital only has one clinical psychologist and there is no child psychologist in the public health system is 60 kilometers away in Slavonski Brod and 40 kilometers away from Požega. So can we say that we have a welfare system?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42964	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of whom the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u42965	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, another tragedy in the welfare system reminded us that the state is not doing enough or doing nothing in this important activity. Certainly nothing that would lead to real changes and improvements in the situation. And first of all, to point out here is not a question of who we're going to charge and who we publicly find guilty and whose resignation or going to prison to call. The question we have to ask ourselves is what are the key problems and their causes and how to start solving them. We also need to be realistic and not expect anything to be solved overnight, but somewhere and at some point we have to start, and that can't happen. The government has been promising social care reform for years without any effect. This promise of reform occurs mainly when a tragedy like that occurs in 2019 on Pag when four children were thrown off the balcony or the same year when a social worker and lawyer were killed in Đakov. And the latest tragedy with a little girl now full of media and the government again began to promise sharp cuts and serious reforms. And that would be fine if the story didn't repeat itself because I'm afraid that as soon as the new theme comes, everything will fall into oblivion and nothing will happen. Just to remind you that this same government has promised to refer the new Social Care Act to the procedure by the end of 2019, it is April 2021, and the law is still missing. The minister's changed, the ministry's name changed, but the law is gone. The only thing we've seen is taking advantage of each of these tragedies for the promotion and self-promotion of the Minister and Government with things they're gonna do for God's sake. This includes the quick shift of the director of the centre in Novi Gradiška otherwise checked for incompetent HDZ personnel. One reason why nothing changes is hundreds and thousands of people who have been sown by HDZ through state and local systems, who make up for the lack of knowledge and skills in the political backdrops. The Croatian Parliament is the largest legislative body, has the greatest responsibility to move things from where necessary and nothing happens. For this reason, I will draw up a conclusion in the parliamentary procedure which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare a plan for a full reform of the social care system in cooperation with experts. It's not just a question of one law, it's a much wider question. It should be changed for social workers in Croatia to care for 200 cases at the same time. That's twice as much as our own rulebook prescribes. It says that the maximum is 65 in the children's and youth department, and 130 for adults. The EU's recommendation is 50 cases per worker, and international experts believe it would be ideal for 15 cases at the same time. It is clear from these figures that we cannot expect miracles that we need human education and employment to change and look at things. The child's interest must have an advantage over the right to parenting. The biological family is not always the best and should not be regarded as such by force. The Household and Family Law Act should also be amended. The announced network of family courts should also deal with domestic violence. The family surveillance teams should include psychologists, even pediatricians when it comes to the smallest children, etc. etc. I have to admit, I don't expect the HDZ Assembly's majority to accept anything, like it's not until now. For years now, I've been proposing a little change in OIB-related adopted children, which all experts are looking for and supporting each time, but every time this government refuses. But it's the duty and the job of parliamentarians to keep reminding, warning and yelling, and I'll keep doing it. I won't let the government forget this subject again as soon as the media's attention is shifted somewhere else because the price of ineration and inaction is too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43052	The following will speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43053	Croatian public, Croatian defenders, families of the dead and missing campers I address you today in a unique opportunity as shocked and distressed as all of you because we have had opportunities and in public a dramaticly incomprehensible decision by the competent state attorney, making sure that Mishu Hrastov is a member of the Special Police Department of the Interior states that he must pay more than 2 and a half million kuna for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia as a regress because the Republic of Croatia is already in the process of being regressive, etc. paid in 30 civil litigation procedures that were conducted paid more than 10 million kuna for the victims who had lost their lives in the then area and for the occupied area of Karlovac, and for those who died, and for those who were wounded. Namely, it is incomprehensible in the whole story that Micho Hrastov as a young Croatian man took the rifle into his hands to defend Croatia, to defend Croatia's Karlovac against the great Serb Chetnic aggression then day 21. 09. 91st in 18 hours and a few hours when Carlovec was in the semi-circulation. On the other side of the river were 5,000 armed, well-armed Chetniks, large Serbs from Serbia, from all parts along with JNAs who were trying to penetrate the very centre of Karlovac. By that time, Carlovec was constantly shelled. Hundreds of dead and wounded by that time were that we were not talking about the general situation and Croatian heroes members of the Special Police who defended the Carlovac were not thousands. There were 300, 400, and some other volunteers along with the police. He had the task to and had the opportunity to capture in a war effort a number of enemy soldiers of those tankers who had to activate 50 tanks from the military camp to concentrate on the territory of Karlovac. They managed to stop it, however, he had such circumstances as to be given along with another friend in the task of bringing these wartime aggressors to a competent institution on whose path they rebelled. Three times this Misho Hrastov was released in court proceedings. Twice, the Supreme Court abolished that liberating verdict so that the Constitutional Court would intervene and abolish the Supreme Court's condemnation and eventually we have a situation where Misho Hrastov together did time for two and a half years of imprisonment regardless of which he was convicted by the Supreme Court for four years. But it's not the end of his suffering. It takes 25 years and he and his family want to destroy themselves financially for whom? For the benefit of a great Serb aggressor. We cannot believe that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, with this performance of more than 10 million kuna, are burdening the family, the man who defended Croatia, who did not go to commit war crimes with his will, who did not go to take the gun into his hands, kill innocent civilians and old people, but who went to destroy Croatian society, Croatian people and Croatian city. To such a man today our society, our institution wants to destroy any concept of survival, to financially burden him with 10 million kunas. We Croatian sovereigns strongly oppose this relativization of the equality of victims of aggressor. However, by declaring the Homeland Defense War on this case a civil war, we will do everything in our power not to execute these judgments and decisions. The State of Croatia and the competent authorities now in power and Minister Medved must know that he cannot give charge to the civilian victims of the Homeland War in the area of SAO Krajina, and to our campers, the missing and all our other defenders such as Misa Hrastov to place a burden of 10 million kuna. It's embarrassing, inadmissible, let's rise against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43122	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative of Domagoj Price will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43123	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. One of Croatia's problems is the slow progress of lifelong learning, especially today when our country faces the consequences of the Corona virus epidemic and when solutions are needed for economic recovery. Lifelong learning is defined as any learning activity throughout life to improve knowledge, skills and competences within the personal, civic, social or professional activities of the individual. Besides education, there are social and economic consequences. It is especially important to requalify deficits. In Croatia, we have a deficit of workers in some professions, while in some parts of Croatia despite emigration, we have a large number of unemployed. Encouraging requalification among our fellow citizens would provide the necessary workers for deficiting occupations, and on the other hand, as a society, they would have higher employment and a stronger economy. Although research of adult skills has not yet been carried out in Croatia, our results of the PISA research do not give us too many reasons for optimism. Our 15-year-olds at the last PISA research achieved poor results in mathematics and science, and we know the importance of STEM areas, science, technology, engineering and mathematics. That is why it is necessary to encourage and popularise natural sciences in young people, especially the acquisition of key competences for lifelong learning. Young people with developed key competences for lifelong learning are guarantees of the development of state, economy and better jobs for our citizens and higher standard of their families. Every year Eurostat publishes data on adult participation in lifelong learning. Croatia is at the bottom of the table with 3.5% of adults participating in education. The EU average is close to 11%, which means that we are far from the EU average, we are at 1/3, and we are aware that education must not stop finishing high school or college because technology, and under its influence and everyday life, is constantly changing. It is therefore important to enable lifelong learning that results from new skills. What we must also warn about is the importance of the education of older citizens. I would especially highlight the digital skills and knowledge because we are increasingly digitally paying our bills, ordering medicines, buying tickets to the theatre or by Internet checking public transport timetables. That is why it is necessary to ensure that our older citizens can be educated as easily as possible. It is part of the concern for all generations in Croatia. Education doesn't have to stop finishing high school or college. For all those who wish to do so, it is important to enable additional education and skills to be adopted. Although we think that requalification or additional education is only for those who are unfortunately unemployed, we must say that it is important to work on the education of employees. In this way we provide new skills and quality for more citizens and allow them to find a new job more easily in case of job loss. So, from the aspect of the economy and social security of individuals, this is something positive. It is certainly not good that we have been waiting for adult education in Croatia for 5 years. Let us hope that it will soon be completed and will contain quality solutions. Lifelong learning their potential to help the economic recovery caused by the coronary virus epidemic. New skills and skills that have more citizens will help recover the economy after the crisis. The EU puts great emphasis on green and digital transition, which is where Croatia should look for its opportunity. When talking about the need for education, it should be taken into account that the progress of technology and science, other than allowing us to make a better standard, leads to the disappearance of some occupations or to a decrease in the number of jobs as a consequence of automation and machinery. It is precisely new skills that can help maintain the employment rate and prevent the growth of unemployment in the future. Moreover, for each successful society, the level of education of members of that society is also important. Let us hope that the government in Croatia will pay more attention to the education of all generations of citizens and that the results of the PISA tests in the future will be better not only for our young people but also for adults.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43213	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of the respected representative Marko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43214	Thank you, well-respected vice president of the assembly, colleagues and colleagues. Incentived by this morning's actuaries and especially by mentioning the National Resistance and Recovery Programme, I decided on this free speech on behalf of the HDZ Club to explain to the public what the National Programme, the plan for resilience and recovery is. The government of Andrej Plenkovic secured EUR 24.5 billion for the next 10 years. That's two and a half times what we've had so far, two and a half times that. The opposition this morning is as sorry as if we've won so much money. I just don't get it. I just don't always get the criticism, so it's going to follow, absolutely not, when we started to negotiate in a multi-annual financial framework, we had 2 billion euros less than we were supposed to have or what we had in the present envelope, and now we got 24 and a half billion euros. The previous government, the SDP government forgot then to react we could have a billion euros higher, the government of Andrej Plenkovic 24 and a half billion euros. When we look from the employment policy spoken of by Rada Boric and the education policy, the vouchers spoken by his colleague, we must look at the whole policy and the whole envelope. Of these EUR 24.5 billion, 10 billion is a national recovery and resilience plan. Out of that, €6.3 billion of grants, the rest are loans. 14 and a half billion euros is a multi-annual financial framework of which 9 billion cohesion is slightly more than 4.2 billion per farm plus security funds. When we look at these 6.3 billion euros, we are among the first in Europe, 11% of GDP brings us a national recovery and resilience plan. But it must not be seen separately, it should be seen as a total of EUR 24 and a half billion. The fact that there were some criticisms, that it was just money for the public sector absolutely doesn't stand. 54% of these funds go to the economy. 6 is a priority, the economy so EUR 26 billion, public administration, judiciary, state property EUR 4.7 billion, EUR 7.5 billion education science and kuna, education, science, research. The labour market is true 2 billion EUR but Mrs. Boris forgets that we have already placed more than 4 billion kuna in the labour market from this envelope and that we will give the same financial envelopes from the next. Therefore, there is absolutely no need for money not to go to the economy. Most funds will end up in the economy either through secondary public procurement. It also needs to be looked at fully with a multi-annual framework and that we have 2 and a half times as much funding as we have so far. So I don't know where the fear comes from. I don't know where I'm concerned that we won't discuss this, so the government has just drawn up a summary of the 80th pages, so not a little document that we're going to discuss next week, we're going to have thematic sessions of the two committees both for European affairs and for funds, the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds. Therefore, we have a month to discuss the document itself, which is referred to on 30.4. So it is of EUR 24 and a half billion, component 6.3 billion remains loans and EUR 14 billion that we need to program for which we will also have thematic sessions and discussions related to programming by summer. And you'd get away with it if it wasn't just numbers, to explain to the citizens what it is, so you'd take a few examples. Here you go. You'd pull out your education vouchers. So, 54% goes to the economy but the billion-and-a-half-breed employment part goes to the economy, of which 300 million kuna direct support for the education of workers in the private sector. And so far, we've given 10 billion kuna support for the rescue of 600,000 people, and on today, he's less unemployed and more employees. Therefore, the national plan, which, for the recovery and resilience that we will discuss next week, is a major contribution, and the government of Andrej Plenkovic, with EUR 24 and a half billion, has secured for the development of the Republic [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43215	Thank you very much. Here's a little over three hours since we last had a clear window, so now we're gonna have one break to get the assembly clear and we'll see you at 3:00 and 10 minutes. It's 14,48 o'clock. The next Club of Representatives will be the MOST on behalf of whom the respected representative Bozo Petrov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43320	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I hope that this speech will somehow reach those responsible at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Transport, I hope that someone will draw attention to this problem because it concerns nearly 80,000 people and their existence. There are some 16,000 Croatian sailors in the international navigation, including 5-6,000 more in the Croatian sea. If they don't split they're losing their jobs, they're going to the Employment Service. At the same time, hospital directors and politicians are inoculating themselves and their relatives, and that's a summary story. Will you do something about it? Please do something. Their jobs, just so the citizens know, are not common jobs, not even on the private market, and in particular they have no similarities with the state and public administration. That's why I'm not sure that the rulings experienced them when the sailors spoke to them. When a person in a state administration or a political official goes into self-insulation because of the covids, she returns to work perfectly normally, and even if 50 times she goes into self-insulation because of the covids, the 51st time returns to her job completely normal. A sailor if he doesn't board the ship when he needs to get on board, he's losing his job. He's got every sailing contract, if he hasn't boarded the ship, no contracts, no sailing, no jobs, and he's going to the Employment Service. And what's worst at all, he didn't lose his job just then at that moment for that sailing, he lost it permanently. No more of that employer, he doesn't work for that naval company anymore. You know what the sailors will tell you when they need to look for a new company and a new employer? The lottery. They permanently lost their job. I'm just asking you not to say that these same sailors are not being blackmailed by vaccination. So-called The covid passports, or if you don't vaccinate, you don't have the right to travel, but they work, now they work in public. You have Viking Cruises maritime company that clearly said we will only take Croatian sailors who have been vaccinated. Do you need more? The leaders of the five UN bodies said that the seamen should have priority during vaccination. Do you need more? You know how governments who realize that sailors matter to them do it? All Singaporean sailors have been vaccinated. All Filipino, Romanian sailors have priority during vaccination. And they will take and keep their jobs and take the job of other sailors, including Croatian sailors, obviously if the government does not act. And how does that happen in us? First they paint themselves as a politician, then it goes to local committees, and then their family, their relatives, their mother, mother, mother-in-law, mother-in-law, mother-in-law, etc., and then the hospital heads come to it. So we have an example of the director of the Dubrovnik hospital who is also the city councilman of the ruling party who instead of giving the needy, the endangered, the sick, his colleagues, the sailors, he vaccinated all his relatives. You know what people will tell you? We don't care. Just give us a chance to live. We're not asking you to get us a job, get us a job, pay us not to do anything, give us a chance to earn our bread. So if by the way you can board that vaccination plan and your family, your family, your mother-in-law, your children, your mother-in-law, your brother-in-law, go ahead, but don't take it from our mouths, from my children's mouth. This problem can be solved more successfully than this chaos and disorder that you have made in vaccination. Please act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43421	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you who wants to stay, sit down, and who wants to go out so we can get back to work. No, it won't, it'll be later. Here's the thing, we've mostly calmed down, so we can move on, now we're going to take a stand on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives. Can we, fellow Boric? This and the first will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, respected representative Veljko Kajtazi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43422	... about Roma problems in Roma settlements. [[Specially enabled.]] I'll talk more about tomorrow very important for the Roma community. In fact, tomorrow marks the World Day of Roma as well as every 8th of April. This year we have a special jubilee, which is the 50th anniversary of this holiday. In fact, exactly 50 years ago in 1971, the first Roma convention was held in London. In addition to numerous other attempts before or after, the London convention became the cornerstone of the contemporary Roma movement because it made important decisions on the name of the Roma people, anthems, languages, and flags that later became universally accepted among all the Roma in the world. In the last 50 years, a number of shifts have been made, however, the International Roma Movement has not fully met the expectations of the Roma people. Division, incoordination, envy and bickering are dominated by Roma activists today. But as I have announced, I do not want to talk too much about problems, but I will say something about what we have done and what we will do in the future. The Roma in Croatia have been making progress in all segments for the past 10 years, so we have managed to overcome the obstacles I have mentioned in political organisation. This certainly contributed to the affirmative policies towards national minorities, which so far almost all Croatian governments have implemented out of independence. Today, Roma and their representatives are equally involved in political life both in the assembly and more and more at local level. When we talk about the relationship between the units of local self-government towards the Roma and Roma settlements, I must say that there are still a number of local leaders who ignore the Roma community and their problems, but fortunately, it is becoming less and less. This government and most local communities accept Roma as an equal partner, and evidence is numerous. Thus, numerous achievements include the establishment of the World Day of Roma Language, the first university study of Romaism, the construction of a Roma memorial centre, the entry of Roma holidays into institutions, the establishment of the first Roma central library in the Republic of Croatia, and the appointment of streets, public areas in honor of the Roma language. In addition to World Roma Day, the Roma community has established two other important dates. Simadaripen and the World Day of Roma Language, and these international initiatives have been adopted by a number of European and international organisations such as UNESCO. Of course, we're far from ideal and I have to say that we still have a lot of things to fix. It is especially so when it comes to the conditions in which they live, unfortunately, still a large part of the Roma community. We also continue to have a lot of work to do on Roma education, on building infrastructure in many Roma settlements, on education, employment, housing, etc. I think it is important to point out that the Roma community in Croatia is already assimilated, but to make integration more successful is important that others who are not Roma understand and get to know the Roma better because one of the key, quality Roma in society is related to the attitude of the majority community towards the Roma minority, and it is much easier to achieve this if they get to know the Roma tradition, culture and customs. It is therefore still important to set objectives and to create measures of various policies and strategies in relation to the Roma population in order to overcome differences between the Roma population and the majority population. As last year, we welcome this World Roma Day during the pandemic of the coronary virus that limited us, tired us, but not discouraged us. During this difficult period, we were left by our prominent Roma Rajko Đurić, Marcel Kurtiade and Trajko Petrovski. I am using this opportunity to also announce that next year, if these opportunities are granted to us in Zagreb on World Roma Day, we will organise a major international conference in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of India, where we will gather all the important Roma from the world, our friends from India and of course from Croatia. In this brief address to all our Roma in Croatia and the world, I want to send this message and hope for encouragement in these difficult conditions for all of us. And I congratulate you all on the Jubilee World Day of the Roma. .../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43423	Thank you very much. Please let's stick to time. The next Club of Representatives will be the IDS on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Lerotić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43431	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Once again, countless times, and it's just amazing how many times we have to repeat that no one in the competent ministry hears or wants to hear the problem of illegal construction. Every day, the situation is getting worse and worse and the situation is getting completely out of control right now. It's amazing that individuals in this country act like there are no laws for them at all. So, without any order of order, they just choose where they want to build and move. It doesn't matter if it's agricultural land, forest land, seashore and coast. Everything is irretrievably destroyed by concrete blocks and slabs, and we make second-class citizens out of citizens who respect the laws of this country. It's amazing to stick your head in the sand and act like illegal construction isn't happening at all. Legalization is part of our citizens that allowed them to legalize objects that couldn't have been legalized before for various reasons, but some legalizations took it as a sign that they could do whatever they wanted, that they could build wherever they wanted, because that's when a certain time would come some new government would come and legalize it all together. That is exactly what the state government's position of inaction and closing its eyes to this problem has led to the state it is today. Irregular builders act as if laws were not passed on to them. I repeat, they do whatever they want, whatever they want, wherever they want, and no one answers. So I repeat, I don't even know which time the mayors of all 10 Istrian cities brought a declaration calling on the competent ministry to enable the establishment of city building inspection services through legal changes so that those closest to this problem can react and protect the natural, construction and cultural heritage that is being destroyed by lawless construction. Such transfer of powers and responsibilities would be an example of decentralisation and a reform move with regard to the authority of local self-government. We are in the IDS Club very well aware that for all of this together and for the transfer of these powers and for the full application of the model and design of construction inspections, inspection services at city level takes a certain time. However, time is passing and absolutely no one in the ministry is doing anything about it and thus a clear message is being sent or there is not enough knowledge, or there is not enough political will and desire to solve this burning problem. The practice has shown that, as it is currently legally regulated from the application of the municipal director to the construction inspection, until the exit of the building inspector on the ground they know the weeks, sometimes months, and the illegal facility is already built in function. So it's clear that things aren't working out, that the situation is alarming and that the emergency situation needs to start changing. It is therefore high time for things to move from a dead end and to solve this problem and to protect space in the coast because problems and challenges are an integral part of every man's life. But if we leave our generation's challenges behind, then we must face the defeating fact that we as a generation failed in our mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43509	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, we shall begin by asking questions to the Government or to an individual member of the Government in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Art. Regulation (EU) No 132/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 (OJ L 298, 21.7.2013, p. 1). The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions today is representative Ermina Lekaj Prlaskaj and the question points to Interior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Davor Bozinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43510	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Honored Minister and Minister. As it is said, I refer the first question to Minister Bozinovic. Mr Bozinović, since 1 January of this year, is in application of the new Foreign Law. In one work, the law contributes to the speedy resolution of individual cases but on the other hand, the practice also shows us a number of shortcomings in the employment process of third-country nationals. The critics of employers are heading towards the absence of a single and complete list of necessary documentation, non-compliance with the practice of referents in the extension of work permits, a long procedure for issuing the EU Blue Card and a whole series of administrative obstacles which slow down the process of the labour market test and issue of licences for the stay and work of third-country nationals. So please answer me what is meant to be done about the promotion of the law or what does it seem to be to remove shortcomings and to speed up and improve the system of issuing permits for staying and working? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43511	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43512	Thank you very much. Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Dirty. Yes, you said exactly, we have a new Foreign Law, which has been in force since 1 January, a law that we have actually tried to protect from the domestic labour market, but is also open to foreign workers, especially in deficits. It is true that this law has left that model of annual quotas of licences which was quite rigid and the new model has just been positioned so that only the labour market would be flexible for all those operating neatly in the Republic of Croatia, so such employers can now ask HZZ for a labour market test and must respond to them within 15 days, if there is a need for that interest, then a request is submitted to the MUP. The MUP must resolve this requirement within 15 days, so all of this procedure must be completed within 30 days, with the fact that at the beginning of the year, the HZZ board has also brought a list of deficiting professions, including builders, butchers, butchers, freight drivers, programmers and, if any interest from that list, then no labour market test should be carried out but a request to the MUP, which then asks HZZ for an opinion, but the whole process must then be completed within 15 days. I think we can now say that this law has certainly shown justification in this work because we have solved from 15,000 such demands and what you have said is that there are certain problems, you see, it is a new law, but in its creation all those who are interested in it have been involved, from HUP, various companies, the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, the MUP, the Employment Office and on a regular basis met. Here today is, for example, a meeting that has been initiated by the Croatian Employers' Association where everyone who has worked on making this law and who has already had some experience, and certainly according to my knowledge there will also be talks about this documentation that is needed, about education for all officials who are receiving requests, so I am sure, as we have partnered with the employers, that a solution will be found for any problem that may arise in its implementation. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43513	Thank you. Now MP Josip Saric will set up, excuse me, here, I apologize, you have the right to show off, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43514	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I am partially pleased with your response. Given the state of the labour market and the fact that, regardless of the consequences of the pandemic, we expect the employment of third-country nationals during the tourist season, it is necessary to improve the Foreign Law and eliminate all obstacles to speed up the process of testing the labour market and issuing licences for staying and working foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43515	I thank you, too. We are now going to represent Josip Saric, who is asking the question again to Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43517	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government. The Deputy Prime Minister and the Honorable Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia. Let me ask you a representative question, and about digital nomads. It seems to me that the public space is not sufficiently observed, past entry into force of the Foreign Law, prescribed that a temporary stay for the purpose of the digital nomad may be granted for up to a year, as well as the benefits which, on this basis, are achieved by persons who carry out their professional work through remote communication technologies, and also by the fact that we are not able to achieve economic benefits for our country. As far as it is known in the EU, there are only a few Member States that have legally regulated the ability of third-country nationals to stay in digital nomads for more than 90 days on the territory of those Member States, which carry out their tasks through communication technologies for foreign employers. Please answer me, in what did this government recognize the opportunity to open up to digital nomads and what does this ultimately mean for Croatia? Also, did the impact of the crown crisis lead to a faster resolution of the legislative framework, the approval of temporary stay with digital nomads? Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43518	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43519	... Thank you very much. [[Specially enabled.]] Here, once again, we refer to the Foreign Law as well as the first question. Digital nomads, as you said, are third-country nationals, who are doing their jobs online, so they are not fixed, they do not have fixed jobs but are using digital technologies and thus earning a living, however, it is this fact that they are not related to a specific physical workplace that enables them to move and Croatia is one of the few countries that have recognised that there is an opportunity to position themselves on the digital nomads market. At the moment of.../incomprehensible/... EU member states, only Croatia and Estonia have explicitly opened that space, and there are several others who solve it through other legal solutions. So, the Croatian government recognized the fact that there is one group of people, today it is estimated in the world of about 5 million, who have a desire to work out of areas that are favourable to them for life, where there is a good gastronomy, where there is a lot to see, when we talk about both cultural and natural wealth and Croatia has definitely taken advantage of and implemented very quickly certain legal changes, from the Law on Foreigners that allows them to regulate their stay for up to a year, of course, with the possibility that members of the family might join them, then there is a Regulation on ways of calculating and means necessary for living, so they have to prove that they have 2.5 net average wages in Croatia, so 2240 and then 10% more on each family member. Since their companies are not in Croatia, they are exempt from paying income taxes, and as far as health insurance is concerned, they do so themselves. The fact that we did this, that the government quickly combined several resolutions, above all the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Tourism, has led to Croatia being talked about today as an example of a country that is very desirable for digital nomads, for example. has reported both CNN and Lonely Planet and Washington Times and Washington Post, therefore, that story about Croatia is spreading, and when you mention the crown, it is true that it has accelerated the adoption of all these regulations on the one hand, and on the other hand has increased the number of people working online today, and as it is about highly qualified people who have actually serious incomes, it is on the one hand and influenzars and journalists and bloggers and information and telecommunications experts, so these are the interests that are best paid today or among the best paid, ours is of great economic interest and any other interest that we have that group of people to expand this job. Here, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43520	Thank you. Let's move on. Now, the obvious of fellow Charic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43521	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased with your response and I want to point out that Croatia is, with Estonia, Portugal, the Czech Republic and Germany, the only country in the EU that has taken this issue seriously and has been dealt with positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43522	Thank you, too, so let's go to question three. Hrvoja Zekanovic's representative will appoint him as Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43523	Dear Prime Minister, I have two specific and short questions, and most of all concern the citizens of Sibenik-Knin County and the town of Sibenik itself. The first question concerns the project you called the project of your mandate, you and your then resolute Minister Maric, Minister of State Property. So it's a project to valorise the zone of the TEF former plant of electrodes and ferrolegures in Sibenik. So I want to know what happened to this project or to report to the Croatian public what is happening to the valorisation of the zone because as many citizens of Sibenik see and I personally do not have anything going on. And the second question so hypothetically, what would you do if one mayor or mayor coming from your party were directly responsible for several tens of millions of kunas of money lost from the city budget, exclusively with his dissatisfaction, indolence because he did not implement European projects in time. There are two specific questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43524	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43525	Thank you very much, well-respected representative Zekanovic. As for TEF, I will ask the Minister of State Property to give you a written reply detailing the state of the project. As far as hypothetical questions are concerned, I don't usually answer them, but whoever doesn't use opportunities, who loses budgets, whether they are national or whether they are European in the end they will surely get sanctions from voters in local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43526	And here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43527	Dear Prime Minister, here's a thank you for answering both my questions. I must express my dissatisfaction with the answer because if you called one project a mandate project, not this term, but the last term that ended, which lasted four years, and if you're not a frame then in a few too many sentences, and you had four minutes to elaborate what happened, I think it's actually a reflection of your entire mandate. And that's bad. If you didn't know I'm going to tell you that really other than being formed by the company Batižele, it didn't do anything at all. And for all those who do not know it is the most valuable space on, currently on the Adriatic coast about 350 million kuna worth of land, which unfortunately has been unvalided for decades. This second hypothetical question, here's no longer going to be hypothetical, is what you assumed. So it's about the town of Sibenik and it's about your HDZ Mayor Buric, who is directly responsible as the manager of the city for not realising the project of valorisation of the arrangement of the fortress of St. Ivana. So, this project was signed in 2016, it was due to be completed in 2019, today in 2021, so now it's two years late, and if everything was okay, it would be at least two more years. Due to delays in the works, the fortress costs citizens of the city of Sibenik, taxpayers about 20 million kuna more. This is information to you, that your mayor is directly or indirectly, or the entire management of the town of HDZ, responsible for a few dozen million kunas of cost that were created exclusively through unhappiness and carelessness.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43528	Let's move on. Now MP Dragana Jeckov will question Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43529	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government Mr Bozinovic, my question concerns a pre-exclusive deadline which was set by new amendments to the Croatian Citizenship Act, which came into force in early 2020. That pre-exclusive period shall apply to the submission of applications and shall be 2 years. Those two years expire at the end of this 2021. After that, interested parties will not be able to submit this application under this law. Otherwise, this two-year pre-inclusive deadline would be enough, but because of the circumstances that have occurred, and as far as the crown of the virus and the banish and Zagreb earthquakes are concerned, the process is definitely complicated and my question to you is whether it is considering in your ministry the extension of this pre-exclusive period that I said was 2 years, which, due to objective circumstances, is really what it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43530	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43531	Thank you, well-respected representative Jeckov. Yes, it is true that the law on Croatian citizenship that entered into force 1. In January 2020, there are 2 provisions that have a provisional application of 2 years. One seems to me to be Article 5. Article 2 which speaks of the acquisition or recognition of citizenship to persons born after 8.10.In '91, and older than 21, if at the time of birth one of their parents was a Croatian citizen. So they need to apply and that job goes. As far as I know, a little more than 1,700 have submitted a request, some 455 have already been resolved and there is another category that refers to persons born between '77, 8 January and 8 October '91. at the time of birth of both parents were Croatian citizens and such demands have been submitted almost 200 already, a little more than 100 has been resolved. Exactly what you said was particularly about the first category of persons, there is a slightly more complex procedure because it is necessary to see if there are any obligations towards the Republic of Croatia, there should be some conversations, hearings, and that means the arrival of those persons in the Republic of Croatia. As we can see, some have managed to solve this, so regardless of the crown and the limitations, that procedure has not been stopped at any time. However, the fact is also that we must respect the situation that over the past, just over a year there have been a lot of restrictions on travel from abroad to Croatia and Croatia. We know what it's like, what she's looked like this past year. I know that through the talks on the 2021-2024 operational programme, there was talk about it. What we at the Ministry of the Interior, which we are talking about, is that we will, of course, wait in cooperation with both the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs by the summer of this year, to see whether or not we are behind, and if we find out that we are, then of course we will do what we need to do, in order to enable it, to bear in mind that this deadline is the deadline for submitting applications. So everyone who submits a request by the end of the year, they're within the deadline, and he'll get rid of it when he gets rid of it, right? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43532	Thank you, Minister. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43533	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I'm partly pleased with your answer because I wish I had heard, yes, it will be extended. Why? Because, as I said, the coronaryvirus, the Banian and the Zagreb earthquakes certainly affected the dynamics of submitting these requirements, as well as the dynamics of the work of state and public bodies and diplomatic and consular representations in which this process, will still take far longer than we expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43534	Let's now go to Question 5, dear colleague Ante Prkacin will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43535	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, Croatian Prime Minister, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, as the current clock began calmly, almost idyllicly, I will ask the Prime Minister a friendly question. Friendship because it contains a serious and easily solved problem with very little effort, work and energy, you will remove the millstone from the shoulders of the Croatian people, and help some countries in the neighbourhood, primarily Montenegro, because Montenegro and Croatia have a similar problem, have a common enemy, which is the destructive and hostile action of the Serbian Orthodox Church. This institution is only formally religious, it is actually political and military, and it is a terroristly diversified act of destruction and destroys Montenegro and makes political damage to Croatia, robbing Montenegro and Croatia alike, the problem is that Montenegrins are clear about what it is, but they unfortunately do not have enough power to solve this problem elegantly, but I believe and hope that they will still solve this problem. And we in Croatia don't have enough sense to deal with this problem, especially one of your predecessors 18 years ago, when he signed a scandalous contract with the Serbian Orthodox Church. So then Ivica Racan as the legal president of the government, the real government, signed a contract with the non-existent president of the non-existent Episcopic Council of the illegal Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia. Will you review that contract, or when you review it, it is mature to cancel.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43536	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43537	... Thank you very much, Your Honor. [[Specially enabled.]] As far as I know, you're the first to raise this question. I have to admit that I'm not in HS, so here, in the last 10 years, since I've been elected here for the first time, I've heard that someone is questioning that agreement. I don't see what arguments you've made to question content. I will now, more out of curiosity, look at it to see what it says, which would be contrary to possibly our legal order, which would be contrary to other contracts that Croatia has with religious communities and I can inform you about, but I don't see what this Treaty is all about so that here, for 18 years, no one has thought of it up to you today. But let us answer that when I study the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43538	Here's your reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43539	Better late than never. When looking at the Croatian Law on the Legal Position of Religious Communities, Art. 1 requires that each religious community be recorded. When you look at the records, you will see that there is no Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia. There are dozens of organisational forms, but the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia does not exist. Furthermore, when you look at the Constitution of the Serbian Orthodox Church, in no article of the Constitution, you will not find any epic advice or president who signed it, that time, I would like to explain the reasons why the Serbian Orthodox Church is not included in the record, and for which there is no Scriptural advice, because the constitution that I quote, it is the Serbian Constitution, in fact I should first apologize to the President of the Parliament and to the complete government, all of us and myself that a legal document of the neighbouring enemy country as relevant to me in the Croatian Parliament but it is not relevant at all but I only mention it to show one complete failure of the contract that was signed 18 years ago and therefore they are not in the register and do not have their status in Croatia or their status, but they have no statute, pardon, not because they do not recognise the Croatian state and Croatian independence. It is the most tough, most resilient part of the great heart and that of the first Yugoslav highserve, not Yugoslavia Brozova but Karadjordjevic, so if you will, not Prince Pavle, but Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, it is the black-handed Yugoslavia that is very destructive in all these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43540	Let's go to question no. 6, respected colleague Martina Vlasic Iljkic points the issue to Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Josip Aladrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43541	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Aladrovic, unfortunately, the death of a girl in the past few years has been only one in a series of these severe and painful cases of child abuse and death but let us remember only the suffering of the elderly in the homes of social care. Yesterday, a baby died in the home of the Class in Osijek. While you, as minister, are stalking the welfare system, which has been pushed into your labour and pension insurance portfolio, just as your predecessor Vesna Bedeković has been stalking for a year and visiting Croatia on the burden of the state budget, the social care system is being broken and vulnerable groups are being injured. You didn't do anything to relieve the welfare system. Social workers in the centres 70% of their time are involved in administering administrative rights and conducting administrative procedures. You have extended the circle of users for rights that are not subject to property or income censorship and you have not provided people who will do this increased range of jobs. What is happening now is a public link between social workers who can testify that they work in the system they are being harassed and do not allow them to do what they have been trained to do, which is the help of family and individual. In addition, they are unprotected and vulnerable to aggression from all sides, without real inter-resor support. In short, they are powerless because you, as a responsible person, raised your hands, marginalized the system, disobeyed the profession, and you have no political will. Are you ashamed of your indignation that you have not passed the Social Care Act and not one regulation in five years that would affect the reorganization of the center? Do you feel responsible for the failure of the welfare system and for marginalising the system that should protect the weakest?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43542	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43543	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I thank you for asking, as much as it was in these moments when the tragedy in Nova Gradišca happened, and as difficult as that may be. As far as the social care system is concerned, I think we are all aware of the structural problem of the social care system, and I'm sure you're also aware of it because you were the headmaster of the CZSS as far as I know it and I'm sure, and I hope that you've made positive moves in your action for the system. What's a fact, then, is that we have some difficulties and challenges in this system, but we're also determined to solve them. As regards the Social Care Act that you mention, I am sure that you know that he will enter public consultation in a very short time, I am also sure that you know that there is a working group working on him which consists primarily of experts from the ministry, from experts from the profession of social workers, educators, lawyers working in welfare systems, and I am also sure that you are familiar with that act by experts from the academic community who deal with these problems, and I am therefore sure that this regulation as a basic regulation of policies, social policies or social care policy, makes positive shifts for the system. Unfortunately, we haven't avoided this tragedy. I am sure that by other changes that we have finally announced, we will already do for the system of positive shifts to minimise the possibilities of such events in the future. You mentioned workers, and they can express even a partial agreement with you, that in the past time a certain amount of public messages that went on were also overrun by hate speech and speech, which is definitely inappropriate to one profession. What we need to do within the social care system and I consider myself a resolute minister to be part of that system, we need to separate those employees in all the professions that are in the welfare system that are doing their job responsibly and those who are not doing their job responsibly. Those who do their job responsibly will be absolutely protected from the system, but I also want to make a public point, those who unsupervisedly, irresponsiblely and without enough responsibility are doing their job, unfortunately for them seats in the system will not be. I'm sure you share my position because once again, you were the headmaster of the CZSS, and I'm sure these problems are very, very familiar to you firsthand. Not only will we amend the Social Care Act but we will also amend the Household Law, 4 chamber laws that regulate the various professions within the social care system and we will very quickly present to the Croatian public an action plan to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43544	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43545	Thank you. From this answer, I do not see again specifically what the Social Care Act is really going to win in that part of the discharge of the system and social care centre according to those announcements that I have had and have been following the last days in the media. So unless the Social Care Act really disburses social workers of money rights, or if we don't single out certain money rights from the social care system, such as compensation for assistance and care, personal disability, employment benefits, which rights really have nothing to do with the welfare system, but is solely based on the health status of the users and has no connection with the property and income censorship, we will do nothing. So by some kind of education of extra social workers, some kind of establishment of academia won't do anything again. So social workers are competent for their work, they have knowledge, they have completed colleges like all other professional workers, but let's give them a chance to really work on their work what they should do, means they deal with families. Disperse the system, if you didn't fit that unique cash center that the SDP government left behind, you could have where such a system would have been unloaded and certain rights granted, you could have offered a certain new system, and you didn't. You didn't pass the family law, and it was recommended before 5 years ago, you didn't bring it, you're talking about the Household Act that you've brought, now the changes, and now you're wondering about some illogicalities in that law, and you've passed it before, so 2018, and it started, it went into effect since 1.1.2019. So, the Temporal Maintenance Act, the Law on the Single Body of Art, these are all the laws passed by the SDP government. You didn't bring any besides the Household Act that you now want to change and wonder at the illogicalities in that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43546	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the questions, two vice-presidents are on the line now, first in line, Col. Skoro, he will ask his question to the Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43548	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ma'am. Minister, I'd like to draw your attention to an appointment that took place in your vault recently. Namely, Memorial Đuric, long-standing state secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, was removed several days ago from the state secretary and appointed to the administrative board of the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. For those of you who don't know, ma'am. After the JNA Military Technical Faculty, Đuric was an OSCE employee, and the Serbian National Council, and the state secretary came under the SDSS and HDZ trade agreements in the SDSS quota, I presume. It was replaced recently when it was found that during the conduct of the State Secretary's duties it was able to sign over 1700 different illegal solutions. So far, there are 12 unsatisfactory applicants to whom she is. I repeat, Đuric illegally signed the solutions, filed charges, and the ministry in court lost all these disputes smoothly. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the others damaged will be the ones to file charges and the ministry will, of course, lose further, and the state will lose public money. However, the government does not seem to be excited by the fact that they are in a closed session a few days ago, as I said to the lady. The memorial was appointed by Djuric as the new member of the board of directors of the state agency. Your Honors Minister, the question I'm giving you is whether you knew about this information relating to Mrs. President. Djuric, if he is, why is he Mrs. Djuric? for a reward appointed to a new duty, and if you're not what you're going to do now after you've learned this incriminating data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43549	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43550	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I thank you for asking. Contrary to your claim, The memorial Đuric was appointed secretary of state in the administrative council of the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. In fact, members of the board of directors shall be elected from the ranks of the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the Minister, acting from the Labour Council and from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds, and shall be elected by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture which collects proposals from other ministries, so in accordance with the procedure, on a proposal from my proposal, the Government has appointed a State Secretary in the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds Mrs. A memorial to Đuric. As far as court disputes are concerned, I can't comment on them right now, so Mrs. The memorial Đuric, according to her testimony, had the necessary powers to sign, and the court estimated otherwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43551	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43552	Thank you very much. I apologize if I was wrong about the procedure, but we're still talking about the same person and the appointment still happened, but these 1700 illegally signed solutions still happened, and the rest of the country lost those disputes, and it's all very expensive. So, we're talking here about the situation in which Mrs. Devereaux is in. damaged the state budget because they were compensated by the basis of lost disputes. I'm talking about the fact that the perception of politicians who already have the perception of what they have or what we have and the question is in some way criminal responsibility because you can't agree that there was abuse of position and authority. Unless you're going to tell me everything's going on together because of what Mrs. Kass is. Djuric was a woman in her day who I do not know provided a special lecture to Mr Plenkovic at the political academy of SNV and was allowed to sign as many illegal solutions as she wanted. In fact, the question arises how many illegal solutions in the Croatian state can you sign to continue in the service?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43553	A fellow navel, please. Let's move on, now colleague Reiner is going to ask Health Minister William Berosha, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43554	Dear Minister, since until yesterday, and perhaps in the future, it will be different, we have faced a worsening epidemiological situation in connection with Covid-19. I'm going to ask you a similar question as I asked last year, last wave in November of last year. I will ask him even though I am aware of the risk that again some completely objective and completely independent portals as well as then write that I asked you this question just so you can boast about what you have done, but I still hold that the citizens of Croatia are very interested. So if your answer is going to be positive, it should make all well-intentioned and not unhappy. So, are Croatian hospitals ready to accept, care for the increased number of Covid-19 patients who can reach and which, indeed, can occur? I also have a question because I think it is also interested in Croatian citizens who, according to official data, must have been more than 280,000 in reality and much more over Covid-19, which is what activities have been undertaken to adequately provide patients with the consequences of Covid and so on. postcovid syndrome with a number of patients who also have an acute illness?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43555	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43556	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Since the beginning of this threat, I have been trying to respond without delay and adequately to all the challenges ahead. The current deterioration of the epidemiological situation is ongoing and today we have 1,750 hospitalized patients and we respond from day to day by analysing the epidemiological situation and the elements that relate to it, and they are very different in our counties to find an optimal concept of response and to rationally use all our resources both human and materially technical. We testify that in both the first and second waves, based on the decision to mobilize our chamber, so doctors and sisters were adjusted on a daily basis, changing from those counties that were less burdened with hospitals that were at that time, at the current epidemiological level, more burdened. This continues to wait for us today, so every day we analyze the epidemiological situation and discuss these details. Yesterday I spoke to the director of KBC in Rijeka who is now under a great deal of pressure. There were 185 hospitalized in Rijeka yesterday, 28 patients in Intensive, 17 on the respirator and directors of all health institutions, so the Rivers do everything to increase capacities, so they adapt. They introduce mainly what is important are oxygen installations, but also video surveillance that facilitates the monitoring of these patients. A similar situation is in Zadar. I thank all these directors who find new opportunities to expand their capacity from day to day. In Rijeka is an additionally established secondary centre, which is Thalassotherapia in Opatija, a sufficient secondary centre has also been established in Zadar, and this is the Special Hospital in Biograd. So, every day we're tasked with analyzing the image, it's at this point in our southern counties worsened than in green, so that's how we adapt. When it comes to staff, I will tell you that Croatia is among the leading countries in the shown interest in further education of doctors and nurses for work in intensive units where we have therefore reported 1,900 of our healthcare professionals and 300 of our coaches in further education until May 2021 for further education that takes place in 20 Croatian hospitals. When it comes to material technical conditions, I will tell you that, let's say, 54 respirators have been re-produced through stock reserves, that we have participated in the European Commission's joint public procurement and that we have obtained 169 respirators, that we have acquired over 300 HI-Flow fans. So we're doing everything that we can to both human and materially strengthen our health system in order to respond to the conditions of this epidemic as in the first and second waves. However, we are doing everything possible to be prepared, but the responsibility of Croatian citizens and respect for measures is that factor that was founded in response to this epidemic. So, we need to know that the number of newly infected on a daily basis is reflected in the next 2 to 3 weeks in the number of new hospitalized patients and the number of patients who unfortunately were more likely to suffer, but also the number of deaths. Therefore, the personal responsibility and respect of measures are not too high in the fight against this epidemic, and the health system will try to be fully prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43557	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43558	Thank you very much. From your answer, I understand that clearly in Croatia what happened in some EU countries will not happen, and this is the need that due to the failure of the health system and the inability to care for patients from their own country must seek help and move patients to other countries, and so some countries have asked us to help, this one, as you said, is obvious that even if the situation gets worse, and no one knows whether it will get worse or not. It's very important what you pointed out at the end, and what we all need to do is I keep saying that actually the key to suppressing the epidemic is prevention, is respecting all those epidemiological recommendations and keeping ourselves safe from getting Covid-19 ourselves and not passing on to another Covid-19. Well, I'm sure our citizens will stick to it and the situation will get better. Thank you very much for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43559	Now MP Peja Grbin will ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43560	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The problem of vaccination is not only a Croatian problem. That is the problem of the entire EU. For him, you directly, when we speak at EU level cannot be responsible because it is primarily the EU's fault that has not done its job well. You can, however, be indirect because you boasted that you played a key role in forming this EU commission and selecting its president, but that's another topic. However, what you can be responsible for and what you are responsible for is how the distribution of vaccination within the Republic of Croatia works, and it functions terribly because even these doses of vaccines that have come into the Republic of Croatia have failed to be distributed in an adequate manner. We had a chance to see yesterday how it didn't work in Zagreb. We have a situation where people split in order, if there's a line at all. We have a situation where general practice is given to doctors regardless of the structure of their patients and people aged 30 and 40 are vaccinated on the one hand, and risk groups cannot reach the vaccines they are entitled to. However, as if all this is not enough, apart from the problem with the vaccine, we also have a chronic problem with medicines in Croatia. Medicinal products are not delivered to Croatian hospitals due to accumulated debts your government does not resolve, Croatian hospitals, and more importantly, patients in these hospitals have lost their medicines. I'm interested in what you're going to do to make things better, to get people to the vaccines, and to get the medicines without which, for many of them, there is no life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43561	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43562	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As for vaccines and vaccinations and situations in Europe and globally. So far, Croatia has ordered 8.85 million doses of vaccines. So far, 664 500 doses of vaccine have been delivered. By the end of April, we expect another 500 thousand doses. Total amount of 2 months of all 2.5 million doses. This includes an additional 747 thousand doses of Pfizer vaccines, which, as you know, unlike some others, we negotiated with a very reasoned view over the past week from these accelerant doses of Pfizer. Why does it matter? It's important that the public hears all the information. At the time of the summer of this year, Astrzenice was given all available information, this can be confirmed by the Minister of Health and the Head of the HZJZ, acting as the basis of the clinical trials would be the first complete and first approved, and it was precisely on that trail that ordered our experts to order the highest number of doses from AstreZenec. Then we ordered additional doses of both Modern and Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, and we also ordered the unauthorized CurveVac and Novavax so far. So six different kinds of vaccines. The organisation of the distribution of the vaccine is a problem which one of the companies currently had globally. In the EU, AstraZeneca delivered over 120 million doses in the first quarter, only 30 million doses. That fact slowed the dynamics of vaccination. We, in order to compensate for these doses, sought and ordered additional doses of Pfizer, above all, which proved to be the most effective and the fastest in distribution and its production capacities. That's how we're gonna behave. Adapt to changed circumstances relative to individual vaccines. It's our ambition to have about 55% of the adult population split up to 1.7. This is the goal that we can achieve with this moment delivered and soon arrived with doses of vaccines. When it comes to health care and debt to wholesale drugs, I talked about the subject several times. First, at this point, there are no hospitals missing drugs. So if you want to as president of the SDP people to fear that there are no medications, it's your responsibility and you deal with it with your words. That's not what's happening, so our citizens can get medicines in health care facilities. Before Christmas we paid a billion and 300 million kunas to the big drugstores, 340, it seems to me, another 300 million kunas to the pharmacies, now 980 million kunas have been delivered. Talks continue, but what we're going to do, we're going to get into the structure of these costs and see the responsibility for the debt that comes into such large amounts. It's a problem that every government has had, and what's particularly worrying is that they always deliver those invoices to the government before the elections or before. Key holidays. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43563	Here's your reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43564	I'm gonna need a microphone, please. Thank you. Not everyone, Prime Minister, isn't everyone. During the SDP, debts in health care have been dramatically reduced and there has been no problem with the non-delivery of medicines. Five years at the head of the Croatian government, five years of debt piled up. For 5 years money has been pumped into the system, 5 years of income, or money available has increased from 23 to 28 billion kuna, 5 years is spent and 5 years does nothing to reform the health care system. Nothing. The money's pumping and then we're surprised, we wonder why the debt's still growing. And the fact that there are no medications in hospitals, I didn't say I did, but said many patients who have faced it themselves, who have faced their doctors telling them not to come because they won't be able to get treatment. I'm not afraid of it, I'm just stating the fact, and it's your job to deal with this fact and prevent tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next week, some of the patients who need to get chemotherapy or some other medicine from being returned home because there is no medicine. It's your job, you took it, no one forced you on it. And as for the vaccine, the only thing I've heard from you is excuses. Not a single word of solution, apology and promise. And those promises, no offense, no one can believe it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43565	Let's go to the 11th question, Representative Stipan Sashlin asks him to the culture minister and the media, Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43566	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the last 10 days, the media often discusses the possibility or changes to the Law on Electronic Media in the context of vertical integration, or the possibility of this part of the law experiencing certain changes. Can you specifically explain to us what it is or what it means, and will such announcements and how it will affect local media? In fact, we Assembly representatives who are also the leaders of local self-government units know and we know how important local media is to us in our communities because they are indeed, in addition to political news, sharing all the necessary news, from culture, sports, etc., right. It's really important for us to help these media outlets. Also, my second specific question concerns whether and how did the government help local media in the areas affected by the earthquake or in Banovina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43567	Thank you very much. Answer, Honorable Ministers of Culture and Media, Dr. It's Nina Ossuary Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43568	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for that question. You mentioned vertical integration, indeed in recent days in the public, there have been a lot of discussions on the subject and it has been initiated by one actually owner of an operator who is also the owner of one charging channel, and there have been some difficulties in the negotiations between that publisher and the operator and started to ask the public whether the law in the second is going to have some changes, and I would first remind myself that here two months ago, when the debate on the Law on Electronic Media, in the first reading, has announced that this part of the law will experience certain changes, so if it goes into liberalisation, then it is expected to consider the introduction of certain instruments that exist in other legislation, other words, if it is approved that the operator, and that it will be here at the same time as the publisher, whether television or linear or non-linear criteria have been laid down in the same manner, that the conditions that the need to be imposed by means of the conditions of the criteria of which would be imposed by means of which are necessary or by means of the criteria. Your particular question of what it will mean for local media, it is still being discussed, it is a specific situation where local media receive concessions at local level and such a mechanism cannot be introduced. However, it is legitimate to expect that such a different let's say, a more liberal legal framework that would also introduce certain instruments for the protection of pluralism, create more space for local media, I agree with you, we should specifically think of them, they are very important for pluralism, they are also very important for informing but even promoting valuable content at local level. To your particular question, especially in this crisis, it was helped, as regards the earthquake of the affected area, by the Council on Electronic Media and by its means, by all electronic media in the field of Sisak-Moslavina County, but during the crisis, caused by the pandemic of the virus, reacted as a government and provided support through the Council on Electronic Media to those who were otherwise users of media pluralism funds, so local and regional publishers through the accelerated payment of funds, we opened the possibility and adoption of a programme of state aid, so those entrepreneurs who had no access to borrowing earlier can, with 100% guarantee of the state, be in charge of their current liquidity and are provided with support to independent professionals in the field of media and we will monitor how this situation will take place and I am glad that you have asked this question and in the light of the debate on the Law on electronic media in other reading, I believe that local media will be helped and that the local media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43569	Thank you. Next question, I'm sorry, dear representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43570	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am pleased with your response and I urge both you and the Ministry and the Government to really take care of the needs of the local media when you refer this law to the second reading. The fact is that at this time, the crown of the crisis, or the crown of the pandemic, has reduced traffic, or the percentage of advertising, and the possibility of funding from other sources. So here we really are, during this second reading and through a public debate to try to protect it however possible, we really know how important these media are to us locally and how much they affect the quality of life and work of local communities. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43571	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by representative Ankica Zmajic to the agriculture minister, Mrs. Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43573	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia, Vuckovic, one of the rural development measures is an extraordinary measure 21 that should help mitigate the consequences of the 360m kuna agricultural sector's crown crisis. Since the opening of this possibility, it has been a long time since the amendments to the EU regulation, so I ask if we have taken advantage of this opportunity and when the first actions to withdraw funds can be expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43574	The reply of the Honored Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43575	Dear Mrs. Zmajic, I thank you for the question, it is a relatively new measure of the rural development programme that was established during the Covid-19 epidemic and for the initiative of the Croatian Presidency, which has been supported by the Council of Ministers of Agriculture and Fisheries in the last week of the Croatian EU Presidency for such a proposal. In the first competition for measure 21, several thousand projects were reported, financing slightly more than 1,400 projects in the contracted value of 128 million kuna. Although the measure should have lasted in accordance with the procedures and decisions by the end of 2020, Croatia's initiative and some other countries extended the time for use and we managed to publish another competition this year. Reports are received by April 13th. According to our data, there are some 450 applications in the system related to farmers and some 160 applications related to processors, i.e. small and medium-sized economies. The measure significantly helped all those who felt the losses caused by the Covid-19 epidemic. It was intended in recent years for the first competition for all those who had an inflow, who had reduced the inflow by more than 15% compared to 2019. For the second competition, we were able to make some concessions in agreement with the commission and make the conditions easier and we expect that the measure will fully succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43576	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43577	I thank and am pleased with your response because the temporary support will indeed help our farmers affected by the Covid-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43578	Thank you, too. Now we will move to question number 12, respected colleague Barbara Antolic Vupora is asking the question to the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43580	Dear Prime Minister, the pensioners are one of the most endangered groups today during the pandemic. Their pensions are not enough to buy protective equipment, gloves, masks, not enough to buy quality and sufficient food, food supplements, for medicines that do not go on prescription. They need life support from the state budget. My question is, are you gonna pay them a covid pension allowance or not? If so, will it be before or after the local elections?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43581	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43582	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As you know from our government, so since October 2016 when the average pension was 2,434 kuna today it amounts to 2,786 kuna. So it's up 12%. Much more than we promised back then, that's when we said 5%, and that's now 12%. The lowest pensions were raised by another 3% through pension reform. Not to mention that the average salary in Croatia in our term has been increased by 1,350 kuna and now amounts to nearly 7,000 kuna. It's more than in three governments before I was Prime Minister together, but it's probably no one remembers. As for the covid supplement, to talk to the pensioners' parties, with HSU specifically, their president, talk to the Matica of the pensioners of Croatia, talk to the Croatian Retired Union, we are aware of the difficult and demanding position of our oldest citizens and Minister Aladrovic will agree with me and with the finance minister to find funds for covid supplements especially for those who have the lowest pensions and will be paid in the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43583	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43584	... the announcements of a payment that can never be made. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] I'm sorry that here's only 700 million kuna in the state budget is enough for such a payoff to those with the lowest pensions. It's a little against how much Ledo lost during the bankruptcy settlement when, when sold so now after a bankruptcy deal for him, it's gotten 4.6 billion kuna. The peace funds were the majority owners of Leda. In the event of a bankruptcy settlement, which the government's advisers have also advised, the Borg advisers have also seen that such a business decision has made to pensioners a net profit of 52% as much as they would have earned if they had stayed in the previous management system. That's why I'm not and I can't be satisfied, the fact is that pensioners have nothing to cover that would lead to a significant increase in their pensions, and that's why it goes to you and the HDZ government of Snow White from Ledo, sweet, and the pensioners only have a wooden wand because it's been poor for them since the increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43585	All right, let's go to Question 13, dear colleague Nino Rasdic is asking Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43586	Thank you. Prime Minister Plenkovic, the election of Marija Pejcinović Buric, your former foreign ministers and right-hand ministers at the office of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, has been called, in due time, by quote, the greatest Croatian diplomatic success in candidates for international institutions and by confirming Croatia's strong foreign policy position today. But what did we welcome? A cold shower came recently after a 5-day virtual visit from BiH to a low-class bureaucrat from the Council of Europe called Christophe Poirel, the head of the Human Rights Administration of the Council of Europe, which then said, quote: It is time for BiH to move to a different modern system in which there is no discrimination and which is not based on constitutional peoples. By contrast, I'd like to make a criminal statement because it's Annex 4. The Dayton Peace Accords of the Constitution of BiH, which stopped a terrible war and reached a fragile compromise, Poirot poured oil on the fire, followed the triumphal statements by Zeljko Komsic and Bakir Izetbegovic, so Komsic calls it and says it has historical significance and quotes "and it is time for the establishment of a civil state". And apparently that also encouraged Bakir Izetbegovic to stop starting negotiations with Croatian representatives on amending the electoral law. On my initiative, the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia sent a letter to Marija Pejcinović Buric asking if this was the official position of the Council of Europe and gave it to her, and she shared it, and we received a scandalous answer in which she did not answer that question at all, but was giving us a quote by the European Court of Human Rights, the letter seemed to have arrived from the office of Željko Komsic or Bakir Izetbegović. So I ask you, what is going on with Marija Pejcinović Buric, do you have any contact with her and will your government react because Croatia is a member of the Council of Europe and has the right to point out this obvious official policy of the Council of Europe which is destructive to BiH and destructive to Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43587	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43588	Thank you very much. As for Marija Pejcinović Buric and her views as the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, you must ask her, so she was the Deputy Prime Minister, she was also a parliamentary representative, she was foreign minister and then she was implementing a policy of the Republic of Croatia that was more than clear when it came to the rights of the Croatian people and the constitutionality of the Croatian people in BiH. Finally, all of our diplomatic initiatives that we have, whether at the level of bilateral relations, whether at EU, NATO level, other multilateral forums, negotiations with the contact group, with the quint, with all players that are important, are related to respecting the rights of Croats in BiH. Since your origin from BiH is I believe that you are well aware of everything the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing on this trail, what I am doing in the finality and myself personally, if there were no HDZ representatives in the European Parliament in 2016, then it would be much harder for Dragan Covic, for example, as the chairman of the BiH presidency at that time, to apply for EU membership. When it comes to the views of the gentleman you mention, I don't know him, I don't know what he was doing there, but he certainly came within his functions and what his views were, I suppose it was the usual line of the Council of Europe on the need to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finci, so since there has been this verdict we know that it happened in the first place, why it came to her, how she conceptually looks at the issue of civil BiH or BiH three constituent people and all others living in it, it is a fundamental difference, one dichotomy of the international community, pictures of Dayton and Paris in '95. and pictures of that European Court of Human Rights verdict. The position of Croatia is clear, solid, stable, will not change a millimeter. We are very pleased that the Mostar elections took place and that HDZ is now after 12 years. He's got his new mayor again, and it's the mayor with the new ID. Our position is that the key, necessary, capital issue for the future and cohesion of BiH is to amend the Election Law, the Electoral Law which will be the fruit of political parties' agreement in BiH, the BiH institution and which will also allow for fair elections without engineering and legitimate representation especially when it comes to elections within the Federation of BiH. As for contacts with Marija Pejcinović Buric, she, when she comes to Croatia, and that is occasionally, she calls and we consult, but today she is not only Croatia, she is the secretary-general of the entire organisation of the Council of Europe and the fact that Croatia has the Secretary General of the Council of Europe is a huge foreign policy success. We've never had this before, it's no place to get some rotation, it's not a place that's been reserved for someone from Croatia, it's a place that we get an active, proactive diplomatic engagement, and some of the representatives here and that and the positions and opposition within the Croatian delegation to the Council of Europe. I didn't see the letter she sent you, I want to see with interest what it says inside, so you have that attitude, but Croatia's stance on Croats in BiH will always be for their equality and constructiveity and change of electoral law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43589	Thank you very much. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43590	You instructed me to talk to Mrs. Pejcinović Buric, so that's exactly what we did. Here I appeal to Mrs Busic, who is the chairman of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, can forward that scandalous answer to you. I don't know what foreign policy Croatian law is. You've rightly said that many have gotten involved in getting her into that position. You have lobbyed in the European People's Party, it is a public secret that for months the Croatian diplomatic network has mostly worked for its choice to welcome today that it is de facto implementing the absolute anti-Croatian policy of the Council of Europe. So how can Croatia be a major diplomatic success to choose a high role in the European institution of the lady who implements the policy of abolishing the constituent peoples who are clapping Zeljko Komsic and Bakir Izetbegovic? I can't do it, I can't figure out where Croatia's success is. It is important that the Croats also hear this in BiH, it is important that the Croatian public who cares about the survival of the Croats in BiH, which is long-term and survival means the Republic of Croatia, because we saw what it means not to have their representatives like Željko Komsic and Bakir Izetbegovic wanted to stop the international lawsuit of building the Pelješka Bridge, so we were saved by Milorad Dodik, who is investing in the veto and we burned that the Republika Srpska Assembly must vote that veto so that Croatia could build the Pelješki Bridge. These are very serious and difficult things and it is disastrous that someone for their career, even if they receive 300,000 euros a year, can be one of the undertakers of their political people. So I do not accept such an answer that is obviously no diplomatic success of Croatia but the realization of one of its careers, because of what is the official policy of the Council of Europe, and I believe that Croatia should react to the Council of Europe because it is obviously their official, official policy, the issue of constitutional peoples. It wasn't Dayton that was created by 100 models, so by some mistake, let's put in constitutional nations, but it was the only way to prevent war and create fragile peace and the state framework that is now It decomposes in a very dangerous way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43591	Let's go to Question 14, dear colleague Anamarija Blažević asks the question of Minister of Labour, Pension System, Family and Social Policy Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43592	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister Aladrović, first of all, I would like to commend the digitised process of reporting and processing the demands of potential users of active employment policy measures on the new website. And I have to say that there were 255 users available in my county in February, of which over 50% of the support for employment, and right behind these support are support for self-employment. All changes and additions as well as the creation of new measures continue to be followed with great interest. What I am interested in is what are the most significant measures of active employment policy and what are they on the labour market?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43593	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43594	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I thank you for asking, in order to give you an answer, I must make a brief introduction to the labour market and the current state of the labour market. So we are all aware of the pandemic crisis that hit us last year, but in economic terms, it did not have any more importance in the labour market with timely, adequate and large interventions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What we can now see at the end of the 3rd month, so in March 2021, compared to March 2020, is that the labour market is more than stable. We have 17,000 insurance companies, which means that our companies' economic activity with major government interventions and, of course, with our economy's resilience, we have managed to prevail. These are certainly positive trends, and when we add that the demand for work at this point is much higher than it was in the previous period or in the same period of the previous year, we can express general satisfaction. What the government did in the previous period is more than 10 billion kuna of direct incentives to preserve jobs, direct incentives to employers and direct incentives to employees and now we can see it as a positive effect on the labour market. What we will do in the next period is also encourage employers and employees to maintain economic activity in order not to endanger business activity and to preserve this segment of work as a work in Croatia. I must point out from your question we can see satisfaction with the active employment policy measures they have been there for many years. In the last 4 years, in the term of both the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, we covered more than 100,000 employees through active employment policies. These measures are the most important self-employment that we had in the last year alone more than 5,000 people to whom we approved them, then employment measures, public works and measures that do not go towards directly affecting employment but also indirectly through the acquisition of certain qualifications, through education and through education. The digitalisation of the portal itself, which serves to apply to active employment policy measures, is only the final step in the development of measures. In the next period, we will also further develop measures, and I must point out that as we promised in our pre-election programme in the first 6 months, we have increased the allocation of measures to a level of up to 130,000 kuna per self-employed person. That must be one of our priorities. It is a priority with, perhaps, number one in the labour market as such and we will continue with the incentives. And I would also like to stress in the end that we have provided a billion and 200 million kuna for the measures of active employment in the budget for 2021. I am sure that this will have further positive effects on the labour market and further positive effects on increased employment and of course the same, while reducing the number of unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43595	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43596	Thank you. Here, I will once again express my satisfaction with the innovative website, I think it's important to repeat it and I think it will make it easier for users to apply, but also for their entrepreneurial steps. But I have seen that there is a new system of points that will also encourage the development of rural areas and the innovation of activities in the green digital transition that I also think is important to mention that something is done in this field. I am confident and convinced that the active employment policy measures will achieve the objective you set, which is primarily to reduce unemployment, but also to help new entrepreneurs in their entrepreneurial ventures, and that all the funds that are planned and spent for that purpose will be spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43597	Now MP Kreso Beljak will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43598	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored President HS. He would ask a question that is somehow related to what he was saying, said Minister Aladrovic. He spoke of 10 billion kunas of the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Croatian residents and the economy over the past year and just over a year since this unfortunate pandemic, or pandemic crisis, lasted. When we look at pure mathematics, I'm not going to throw it away, but it's nice to provide resources, and people don't care where money comes from, it's important to help them and it's not that important right now. I can talk about that not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia helped, but also the units of local administrations and counties and municipalities and cities. In particular, the city of Samobor helped 10 million kunas, singled out 10 million kunas to help people in this crisis and plus and minus what we lost 10 million kunas. But I'll say the way we got that money. In a way that unfortunately we had to stop a whole series of municipal projects, a whole series of things that we could do from that 10 million kuna. And that's not a problem together, and it wouldn't be a problem if the crisis was over soon, so we'll just move on. But according to everything, looking at the situation in Europe, in the neighbourhood, and even in Croatia, this crisis will not end so long, and my question goes to you prime minister, do you have a plan as far as possible, it will need to help further, from where money, whether we are in charge, whether we are counting on the EU and most importantly, whether we are counting on you, whether you are counting on it or not? and we all get together at a significant reduction in certain costs [[Intruder: Thank you]] So let me finish my sentence. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43599	Please sit down, thank you. Your time is up. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43600	Thank you very much, Mr. Beljak, here is the statement that prompted your question with the question which the MP referred to Minister Aladrović when it comes to everything we have done in the context of the covid crisis. So, I will point out once again, the total price of the pandemic Covid-19 is currently €32 billion, €32 billion, of which 13 billion is the fall of budget revenues, and 19 billion kuna are the various costs of course not planned for us to set pillows for our economy, for our citizens, above all for Croatian workers in these extremely unpredictable and demanding circumstances. You know that last spring we made very fast, clear, firm decisions, decisions that had a very precise goal for the Croatian state to stand behind Croatian workers and it stopped and stood practically 14 months, the results show that. There are no 400,000 unemployed in Croatia that SDP spoke of before the HS elections. No, there are no new 400,000 unemployed, it did not happen, nor did the 68 mandates spoken of by a time-suspended SDP vice president, nor did that happen, very weak prophecies. Equally, the ridiculous attitudes of a representative now related to the rescue of Agrokora's jobs before the 4th year ago. and a comparison now with the payment of Covid-19 and the role of pension funds. I don't know what's more ridiculous, but it's on that trail, but good. What are we gonna do next? The 4,000 kuna measure has thus far saved 120,000 employers and 680,000 workers, 120,000 employers and 680,000 workers have benefited directly from the government's measure. HZZ to preserve jobs. We will find the means to continue to support under the circumstances in which we are fighting the pandemic on two colossums, one is anti-epaemia measures, the other is vaccination, and to maintain the economy, to maintain jobs. You have seen today's media information that our policy in terms of restrictive measures has been such that it has made it possible for the economy to work, pulse, VAT revenues, consumption during the Easter, go a little further away from Croatia, see the curfews, see virtually everything closed except the necessary small food stores, not to talk about services. We did not do this because we balanced both the economy and the school and the economy and the preservation of jobs and health measures. On this trail, and I am pleased to mention that the units of local and regional self-government and the town of Samobor from which you come from, I will only remind you that thanks to the reform of the financing of units of local and regional self-government in 2017, almost every unit, county, city or municipality received more funding. Samobor may have been so developed that he had to save like you, but most others, believe me, I know the situation in the county and in the cities and in the municipalities, and on that trail we will continue, stop from the Croatian workers and work against economic difficulties and these pandemics. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43601	Thank you very much. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43602	Thank you very much for your answer. But you have been well corrected, Samobor has not received, of course, Samobor has received less but well, we are not sorry, Croatia needs to develop evenly and we welcome it and do not regret it. I mean, neither did the Hive get more than just a few of the richest, that's it, no. I thank you for your response, I am sorry that you gave me most of the answer to other MPs, but I will allow myself to protest Mr. Jandrokovic's behavior because what he has done to me now, that he has not allowed me two words to allow, it is simply below each level. So you could talk to Mr. Jandrokovic, Mr. Sanader. Kosor, with Mr. Karamark and you won't talk to me like that, you're not a god, you're just one of the MPs who's the first, and I think it's extremely rude of you not to let anyone else, so I'll say two words to finish the sentence to the team more than I've insulted anyone but I've asked a perfectly normal, constructive question. What you're doing, it's the haughtiness and insolence that's simply been gone for a long time in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43603	Comrade Beljak, as you are challenged to speak this way, you have almost 10 seconds of time. In about six seconds when the time was up I warned you to finish, so I'm doing the same thing to the MPs, I'm doing the same thing to the government representatives, so I don't know why you'd be the exception. If we have reached agreement that the replica or answer lasts 2 minutes, then we should stick to those 2 minutes and I insist. If that's boastful because I stick to the order that we've all defined together, then I don't know what to say about the behavior of some colleagues and colleagues who don't stick to that order at all. I think it's a lot more boastful than sticking to order. Here you go, colleague Beljak, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43604	I think you've hurt your ankle. 358. Rules of Procedure, and don't tell the truth. Don't tell the truth Well, I can, so I look at her all the time. [[President: So you can take a look at the video.]] So you have, you don't have the same criteria for everyone. [[President: You're not looking.]] So I wasn't rude, I wasn't out of line, I wanted two words, literally two words, you wouldn't let me finish. Two words It's like, "Come on, break it up, break it up." [[Intruder president: colleague Beljak.]] Well, I mean, it's rude behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43605	Comrade Beljak, please sit down because what you're saying is completely inappropriate, like everyone else, and I've been measuring you for 2 minutes. Have a seat, you get a warning. [[You're not the professor that you're gonna tell me to sit down, I can sit down, I can stand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43606	You can't tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43607	Come sit down, stick to the order, I'm not asking for anything but to stick to the order and to respect the Rules of Procedure. Just as well for everyone else, as well as for yourself. Comrade Beljak, you will receive a second warning. [[Beljak: But you do not stick to the Rules of Procedure.]] Please sit down. Comrade Jaksic, it is your turn now to ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43609	Thank you, Your Honors President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, Mr Plenkovic. The issue is about the situation in our Croatian judiciary. So what has been going on for 30 years, but what has been particularly rounding up our public in the last few months are numerous events, events, violations carved by our judges, people we all believe should be independent, protecting the interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies. What proved to us back a few months ago, that these people, unfortunately, in one piece, because the honor of all the fair exceptions, plunged into their... in his clienteleism where we really question whether we can believe that our judiciary is independent and that in the same way protects all citizens of this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday we had an opportunity to see an independent survey at a media house in the Republic of Croatia where our judiciary received a score of 2.7 if I'm not mistaken, with an estimate of between 1 and 10, where 60% of the citizens of this country believe that the judiciary has gone down in corruption and even HDZ voters in the assessment of 1 to 10, give an assessment that is less than 5. So the key question is whether political awareness has finally taken place in a joint appearance that we can finally go into clearing up the situation in the Croatian judiciary which is really like one early cancer eating our country, eating our society because a number of research has shown that the lack of investment mainly foreign ones we have, on the one hand, comes to this because they just don't believe in our judiciary and judicial protection and the mass of our people who left this country has also said that a good part of them does not go away because they simply leave because they no longer believe that they can live and function normally in this country and society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43610	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43611	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Representative Jaksic. First of all, I have to say that I'm glad that you're following your performances, that you're thrilled with the new president of the Podravka administration, that you're smiling and happy because the stock jumped, the reorganisation started and the pay went up. And that's good, that's why she's sent there to make the steps that are good for Podravka, and that's good for all the Koprivnica and the entire Koprivnica-križevci County, and I'm glad that you laughed because you know I'm telling the truth and that you said it publicly and it's good to repeat it and especially to tell a colleague who sat right of you behind, so that she too has become a little enlightened about what our government did in the first term for the Croatian economy, for the OPGs, for suppliers, for workers and for the survival of the Croatian economy, it needs to be repeated, despite numerous surveys. I don't know what poll you're referring to, but when it comes to justice, so we're witnessing a debate where, say, your party president cements at 16%, says he doesn't care about the law. The man is a lawyer, he was chairman of the Constitutional Committee, he publicly says he doesn't care about the law. Do you think it is good for the Croatian public, for the credibility of the SDP and for you as a party that will be in opposition for almost 9 years, do you think it helps strengthen the concept of rule of law, respect for the constitution, and ultimately, judicial reform. I don't think so. I think you're fundamentally wrong. To politicize things and represent them to the public as they are not. As for the independence of the judiciary, and here we have to say some things because these floscules, labels, pamphlets that are mostly placed from your circles to the media, about, for example, that the change of the head of the Supreme Court will mean... The reform of the Croatian judiciary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a lie, it's a lie, it's incorrect, it's the first time used in public space in 30 years. Never before in selecting a president or president of the Supreme Court, that argument has not been used. You know why? Because it doesn't exist. And that's important to say. It's just as important to say that our constitution is in Art. 120 says the judicial duty is permanent. And who chooses judges in Croatia, who chooses state lawyers, if we exclude the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General? Who chooses them? They're selected by the DSV, selected by the DOV, and who are members of those bodies? 7-2-2, equals formula. 7 judges, 2 professors from the academic community, and one parliamentary representative, positions and opposition, the same thing, analoguely in the DOV. Well, then we have to say that for years in Croatia politics has not chosen judges. What policy should be done and done and done and done by the minister, and we have done in the past term, strengthen the mechanisms of control of their work, action plans for reducing the number of cases, faster work, more efficient work, more quality justice. These are the objectives with which I believe that you, as chairman of the Justice Committee, must agree and work together to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43612	Thank you. Let's go to the 17th question, excuse me. You've got the obvious, of course, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43613	Dear Prime Minister, we're making progress, the last time you tried to put everything in my mouth, this time you put only half of what I said or didn't say. When we talk about Podravka, Podravka is an important thing, not only for Koprivnica, Podravina and Prigorje, but for the entire Republic and you know it very well and understand why there is always a legitimate concern in our area and a struggle for Podravka. We have the right to talk about it both as mayor and as a descendant of people who have created this company for several generations, but we have the right to speak also as a Koprivnicar because I know how much Podravka has made in the Homeland War, and you know very well how much it meant to you at the beginning of the crown crisis, because one of the first decisions was to make Podravka profit for the needs of the state budget. So much for Podravka. I'm glad he's moving forward, so let's just go, I don't have the stock too much because I just don't have the money to play with it. As for the situation in the judiciary. So I don't care at all about President Zoran Milanovic or what anyone said 10, 20, 30 years ago. The fact is that people don't trust our judiciary and that apart from some big words that usually come out after some affairs, shooting measures, running across borders, we're a little busy creating some action plans. So long as we don't overcome the will to have a clear evaluation of the judges, that we have a clear sentence of the judges, we won't be able to say that we did something right for so long. And what, now I'm referencing to Mrs. Crescent. Dalic, although it has nothing to do with her, is not nice to say, but I am glad that a fugitive who has been raised by your predecessors in the post of HDZ, such as in Croatian space, is a Zdravko Mamic with his insidious savagery back a few weeks, has obviously encouraged you to start seriously thinking about how we will reform the Croatian judiciary in a clear, fair and just way without ‘Sexism’. [[Intruder:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43614	Thank you. We are going to ask Agent Ivan Celjak who will direct the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43615	Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, honourable ministers, respected ministers, respected HS president, respected MPs and MPs. Dear Minister Horvat. The earthquake in the affected area states that 6 kilograms of documentation and 90 forms are required to submit a renewal application. On the other hand, it communicates that the applicant's identity card is sufficient. Can you please tell us the correct way to apply and what documentation is exactly needed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43616	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43617	Thank you... The Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representative. [[Specially enabled.]] I thank you at all for being able to demystify one theory I've been hearing for the past three months, and the denials are very simple. 7 917 received or, I will dare say, collected requests in the past, just over 3 months, is proof that the process to this extent has been simplified that, in addition to these 6 kilograms of documents, or 90 contributions, which have generated, I must say, little and bad people who want to, so I will dare say, create confusion, primarily in those who are entitled to co-financing. Mobile teams, dislocated departments of the Ministry and the info centre here in Zagreb are helping on a daily basis everyone who needs it by giving them timely and credible information, helping them fill out the requests, and there is a big difference between those evildoers who have tried to sell false information to the people of Krapina-Zagorje and Zagreb County that, with the application being submitted, about 90 contributions are needed. So, the most complicated request is contained on page 2.5 of the A4 paper and for filling it out today, if you want to fill it out and hand it over in paper form, a credible identity card is necessary. If we can be helped by identifying the property or by an act based on which the damaged or destroyed facility is built, it is a step forward in helping ministry officials to generate a decision based on the right to rebuild. So in the past 3 months, on the one hand, constructing an efficient model of submission and acceptance of applications, and they today can be submitted to the Ministry and exclusively to the Ministry, and in writing form to 5 dislocated locations, in the Office of the Ministry, by mail or mail. So the application we produced greatly simplifies the methodology of applying, but also the generation of solutions because, when I answer the questions, whether we have started with an active reconstruction process, yes, public competitions have been published, from the amount received through the Solidarity Fund, and it is 5.1 billion kuna, all public calls are outside, projectors are doing their jobs, contracts technical and financial control, audits, operational coordinators, and only in Banovine space, counterpart Hanzek, Secretary of State of the Central State, at this point has a priority and a list of 20 thousand family houses for which we produce project documentation for which about 400 million kuna, to ultimately, all that we will contract and order, power and pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43618	Thank you very much. Here's your reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43619	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your reply. It is necessary for the renewal procedure to be as simplified and accelerated as possible, in all parts. From application to construction. We are aware that the reconstruction is a complex process, that the ground is still shaking, that this unpredictable earthquake has also created a crisis that exceeds both the human and institutional capacities of the local and regional self-government units. In the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, we are particularly concerned with the project of completing the highway to Sisak with a separation towards Petrinja so that residents from the petrinjska and glinj areas can also have more quality and faster communication with Zagreb with all the advantages that such traffic communication brings with it. The important point is the fact that entrepreneurs, for future investments, in the Sisak-Moslavina County, will achieve grants up to 70%, thus low to 70%, mean to 60% and up to 50%. We in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County see this tragic and catastrophic earthquake as an opportunity for a real start, as an opportunity for the arrival of investors, as an opportunity for the creation of new jobs because only high-income jobs ensure the survival of residents in the Sisak-Moslavina County and, of course, the return of our fellow citizens who have temporarily left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43620	Now MP Nikola Mazhar will ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister, Tommy Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43621	I would like to thank the esteemed president of HS, the esteemed Prime Minister and Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to refer my question to the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and the Croatian Defence Minister. Although the epidemiological situation is still very demanding, you recognized the importance of prevention and the need to continue carrying out activities that contribute to the reduction of mortality and pain in the population of Croatian defenders and brought them in for this year by the Programme of preventive systematic examinations. I'd like you to inform us of the concrete measures and the programme's activity plan for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43622	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43623	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar. Thank you for this important question. So, in 2016, we are aware of the facts of the great mortality and improvement of Croatian defenders, we have launched a measure, and in Vukovar we have made a pilot project of preventive medical examinations for Croatian defenders because these are activities aimed at reducing the rate of improvement and mortality and preserving the general health of Croatian defenders. Since 2017, we have been implementing the project here to prevent and early detection of cardiovascular and other chronic non-infectious and oncological diseases. After the pilot project of 2017, we signed a contract with all county hospitals and clinical hospital centres, where we spent more than 20 thousand Croatian defenders of preventive medical examinations on an annual basis. The results of these reviews carried out by HZJZ are defeating the health status of Croatian defenders, which continues to bind us and direct us to the continuation of the programme. Namely, only 8% of the Croatian defenders reviewed according to the results processed by HZJZ received an evaluation without further treatment recommendation or further specialist investigations. This indicates to a sufficient extent the health status of Croatian defenders as a result of the participation of the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and how much support we must provide. And on that trail we continue for 2021, but of course aware of the circumstances and difficulties that medical institutions have and about the pandemic. So, during 2020, in accordance with the current state of the county, we did not at any time interrupt preventive checks but in coordination with hospitals with hospital coordinators, we found with the directors when there was room and when there were fewer patients than Covid that at these times we used maximum and referred Croatian defenders to the reviews. On March 25th of this year, we made a decision in the Government to continue the review for 2021. A year. We have provided 10 million kuna for this measure, and these days we are just coordinating with the directors of county hospitals, clinical hospital centres and a certain number of health homes that we need to create according to the state or the number of newly infected persons in that hospital. So, regardless of the difficulties of hospitals in close coordination, the synergy of the Croatian Ministry of Defence and Hospitals will be used every moment to allow Croatian defenders preventative medical examination with the aim of saving their lives, contributing, the quality of their health for which I thank the Ministry of Health, all directors of institutions for understanding and support in the implementation of this activity, and therefore this is a certificate to the extent that our government is aimed at creating assumptions for the quality of life and health of Croatian defenders. It is our obligation and it is our duty to the Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43624	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43625	I would like to thank the Honorable Ministers of Croatian Defence. I can express my satisfaction with your response that at no time has this programme been questioned, not at any time stopped at any hospital. What makes me particularly happy and happy, and here you have pointed out that the pilot project of this programme started right in the city of Vukovar, at the General County Hospital of Vukovar, which was in the meantime raised to the level of national and memorial hospitals and hospitals of Croatian veterans. Just at the beginning of the implementation of the programme, only during the first 3 months of the government's term of office when the programme began more precisely on October 17th, 823 Croatian defenders were under review at Vukovar General Hospital. Today, the programme has been brought to life in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, and it is important and important that it, within a specific situation, continue to be a pandemic for a year and that this year I believe first of all to the satisfaction of Croatian defenders who will be able to prevent them from establishing their health status, possibly detecting some better or reacting in time and certainly saving their lives. I hope that this year, as in recent years, that will be the goal of this programme, and therefore I support its continuation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43626	Thank you very much. Let's go to the 19th question, counterpart Marin Miletic will be asked by the minister of sea, transport and infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43628	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister Butkovic, I refer this question not only to the government as a minister, but as a parliamentary representative elected from the 8th constituency, from our courtyard. We saw that the government gave yet another agreement at its session last Thursday in order to be in Rijeka Shipyard 3. May could complete the construction of ship 514. After the Republic of Croatia recently bought that ship at a bankruptcy auction that move closed one round of business in our 3. Maya. The state institution and the Republic of Croatia have both become the buyer of that ship, the creditor of that ship and the guarantee for the construction of the same ship. All this was very accurate and precisely followed by the prime minister in his statement, noting that without State 3. May in this state couldn't function, but at the same time we're all aware so surely you of this government that this model of shipbuilding can't function in this way. It's a transitional and short-term phase. I'd also like us as a state to have some magic wand and magically produce money, but that's not possible. So we won't be able to pay for ships, order, be a lender, bailiff and all that. So it's time to hear the answers to the questions about the future 3. May, Rijeka and Croatian shipbuilding, what long-term solution the Government has for Shipyard 3. May? What's the plan? We've heard a lot of things here, and we've listened to everything. We remember the great stories of the arrival of the Chinese, and now more and more mentions are made of polar cruises, and subconcessions are agreed at the shipyard for part of the circus. And you in the government very clearly show that you expect to make arrangements in the future. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43629	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43630	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, in your question, you have found quite precisely, most of all, and I am pleased that you, as a parliamentary representative from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, as I did, have argued that without the Government of the Republic of Croatia, without a government in the previous assembly, and even in this, shipbuilding in Rijeka and Istria, because what we are doing at this point, would not survive, would not come out of difficulty and would not have a future. In addition to all these decisions made by the Government, I will only list some of the most important ones, since the summer of 2019, when the first decision was taken by the Government on showing willingness to engage in the process of deblocking accounts, preparing and launching production in May 3rd and completing the initial construction, in particular the new construction of 723, 733 and 514. That these decisions were correct, it is in support that the completion of ship 723 and 733 were completed on 29 September 2020 and that the State budget was returned to the guarantee as well as the total HBOR loan, and this is expected at the end and other ships in May 3rd. This model is not bad, Croatia does not lose but the Croatian government, or the Croatian state, gives the Croatian budget because there is no other model at this time, gives support for the completion of the ships and does not lose it, which was not the case in the past not to mention all those guarantees that have been charged and the amount of more than 4 billion kuna which has caused the shipyards in Rijeka and Pula to come into question. As for the future of May 3rd, you know that soon the construction of a new construction ship 101 will begin, it is only the first in a series of ships to be built in May 3rd, there will be 5 luxury vessels that are of course operating under the 80-20 model, where the ship's hull will build the ship's third May and the company MKM Yachts, which is the holder of the sub-concentration that you also mentioned, is involved in this business and I think it is a good one joint Venture, a consortium that will build ships in May 3rd and actually recognise the third May and people that they can build, who know how to build ships that one of the most luxurious yachts will be built right in May. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also preparing, it is the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure through the mechanism and resistance that we will have a certain part of the 100% grants, that both Jadrolinija and other Croatian shipowners will hope in Croatian shipyards, build ships with grants and that is something on which the Third May and second Croatian shipyards will have the opportunity, of course, to negotiate through a public tender, I believe that with their technology, people and, of course, the offer will be concrete for the construction of these ships. In other words, the shipbuilding in Rijeka was saved, it has a future, for the next 3 to 5 years it has to be built in May 3rd, and everything the government does further, what I mentioned, it is definitely an opportunity for May 3rd in which I believe deeply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43631	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43632	I'm glad Minister Butkovic, that your words show great interest in the preservation of shipbuilding but I still have other things to mention here. Last Thursday, you presented a summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we heard from the government, and from those ministers we received information about some concrete projects to be financed from the plan. With impatience I personally and believe all of our Rivers, we wait to see the full version of that plan. The same as many of our shipbuilding employees, shipbuilding cooperatives and all the people living from that industry to see which projects Croatian shipbuilding entered this narrow competition and what of those 49 billion kunas will be intended for the transformation of shipbuilding. Investment in restructuring, modernisation, robotics, human potentials and research and development, all of these are the needs of our shipbuilding but also an opportunity to develop an entire segment of the economy which is both productive and export and can be innovative, which is rare, should be recognised, rare in today's Croatia, at least in this respect. So I look forward to seeing with optimism what you have prepared, which has been prepared by the Government for Croatian shipbuilding, for Rijeka's shipbuilding in the coming period of recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43633	Thank you. Now we're going to do one more question, then we're going to have a 10 minute break, a little airing room. So it's time for fellow Stromar who asks the question of the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, Darko Horvato, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43635	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister Horvat, in March 2019, the state donated the complex Vartexa to the city of Ivancu and there announced a large project and entrepreneurial ventures. And you weren't a minister then, but then former Minister Maric assigned it to Ivancu. But at the end of all that, nothing. And Ivanec became one of the few cities that returned the donated land, a donated property to the state, only a year after the donation. Minister Horvat, my question, who is responsible for the complex that could, for example, have been designed for educational programs and entrepreneurship, is still staring blank and failing? Is it the responsibility of the mayor, his team and the inability to use the space or is it the fault of the state that the mayor of Ivanca himself claims? And the real question is, does the state have plans for the Ivanesian Vartex or are you ready to re-demand the city when the new mayor arrives who will know how to use real estate and land to develop the whole environment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43636	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43637	Thank you, Your Honor, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Oh, yeah, one case from 2019. I have to admit he surprised me, too. Therefore, after the assessment process, after the technical services of the ministry had done their job, after a generated decision and after a signed contract of one space which was to be converted into an entrepreneurial incubator, a decision came to the town of Ivanec returning the land concerned, or part of the old complex “Vartex” to the state, on the grounds that at this moment there is an interest in buying the complex in question by private entrepreneurs. Since we're relatively close to the election, we'll wait for the split of the situation in Ivantz. If the new mayor has a perspective, I am sure that we will be able to re-enter the city of Ivanac for an economic or entrepreneurial purpose by means of a much faster decision and a new contract, we will be able to offer it to private entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43638	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43639	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Namely, I was asked by the candidate for mayor Nikola Sedlar to ask you because he is extremely interested in the development of education in the town of Ivanac, and in particular in the town of Ivanac, and there are more than 10,000 residents, there is no educational process for students. And there he would like to set up a campus, a campus campus, of course not huge, but a mini campus where Ivansians, young Ivans, could study, and this particular property is optimal for that. I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43640	Thank you, too. So we'll continue as I said after 10 minutes, it's exactly at 12 o'clock with a question which colleague Vesna Vucilović will refer to Minister Horvat. After the current morning is over, we'll have a free speech. The first item of the agenda will be at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43641	Here is a respected colleague and colleagues, we will continue to work, now MP Vesna Vucilovic will ask the question of Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property Darko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43642	I thank the chairman. Your Honor, my question is about state property management. We all know that the Republic of Croatia owns numerous assets, including tourism and construction, other building land that is not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation. Last year, in May, the Council passed a law that made all the regulations that were in force until then, as well as changes and additions of those Regulations invalid. A new regulation should be adopted within 60 days of the adoption of the law, which is 10.7.2020, which would regulate that area, set the level of concession fee, the time of maturity of compensation, the procedure, the way and the conditions for obtaining a concession, etc. The ministry that you're in charge of, which is competent to this day, has not brought, so I'm going to ask you a question that's very brief and very specific. When is the ministry headed by you intending to adopt that regulation, which should have been passed in accordance with the law that passed this high house in May, eight months ago?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43643	Minister Dark Horvat's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43644	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Parliamentarians, all processes in the decision-making segment except for a defined price at which future owners or tenants will use unrated building land for tourist purposes have been done, so we have made one broad and public and professional debate and what we lack for the regulation in question is just the amount of the price. In order for this price not to be a political decision, one expert commission has been formed from the prominent experts involved in the assessment of real estate and the moment the study in question is completed, the moment that the elaborates in question are recorded to the Croatian public and placed on the table, through the new process of the first professional one, and after that, we will also define the so-called figure or price, and thus we will satisfy or carry out all that HS has set us up as a task.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43645	Dear representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43646	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you respect the profession as opposed to some of your colleagues from the government and I am pleased that you have approached it in such a thorough way, but you and I know very well that this concession fee is filled with not only the state budget, and I will remind you that the public debt grew last year by 35 billion kuna, but also the budget of JLS, and the Tourism Fund. It remains unclear what will happen to this period during which we do not have a legally regulated payment of concession fee? What happens to the incomes we didn't make? Ha will remind you, throughout this pandemic, peasants and farmers in Slavonia and Baranja pay compensation for processing state land, while here is a foreign-owned tourist company, mostly not paying for concessions on which their camps and tourist resorts are located. The fund also finance mainly tourism activities in less developed areas. Again, my Slavons and the Barans, where are the projects that would help them? They're gone. So because of that inaction, unfortunately you're not the only one left in this government those who don't do what they're supposed to do, many remain to be cut off. But here's hoping that your solution, even retrograde, will get some results, but I'd also like to ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43647	The next parliamentary issue will be asked by respected representative Darko Klasic to Minister Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43648	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, respected MPs and MPs, distinguished Minister Butkovic. 9th year, 2012. A concession model of Zagreb airport has been selected, which has only affected those who have received the gift of an old airport in Dance and the right to build a new pre-named airport building. When the new International Airport concessionaire received a state guarantee of EUR 196 million, and in the concession contract installed the fate of Croatia's airlines, everything else became irrelevant. In addition, the complexity of the ownership structure of the International Airport of Zagreb contributes to poor governance and wrong business decisions. A few months after the takeover of the management of the International Airport of Zagreb, the concessionary is... In order to ensure a drastic increase in airport charges prices, as well as an air space protection fee with the consent of the Republic of Croatia, it has provided its own additional revenue from EUR 580 to EUR 620 million in the 30-year duration of the concession. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This astronomical increase in the prices of its services and the wrong business decisions has also made it impossible to achieve our strategic objective of the airport as an entry destination for flights from the Far East to Europe and a desirable destination for airlines. Instead, the airport has become too expensive for all airlines. By falling airport traffic of over 85% for Covid this public private partnership came a dead end. By announcing the arrival of a low-tariff company, our national carrier will not be able to maintain the number of flights, and the concessionary of Zagreb airport will certainly activate the contract annex in the concession and transfer the business costs to the Republic of Zagreb. Honorable Ministers What will the Government of the Republic of Croatia do to protect the public and strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia in this case. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43649	Minister Oleg Butkovic's reply. Comrade Klasic, please turn off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43650	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, I thank you for your question. Since the question is quite complex and comprehensive, it will not be enough for me to answer all of this, so I will give you this answer, which I will send you and the written reply, as it enters into the concession agreement, annexes and all that is related to the construction and concession of the International Airport of Dr. Franjo Tudjman. However, what I can tell you is that the concessionaire of the airport Franjo Tuđman is his business and price policy runs in accordance with applicable regulations to national and EU legislation and, of course, in accordance with the concession agreement and that he is authorised to determine and compensate the airport in accordance with applicable regulations, but is also obliged to carry out the procedure and consultation with the ministry and, of course, one body chaired by the largest domestic carrier so that he also had to ask for the consent of the competent authority in the course of certain fees. As far as the interest of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not at risk, I can tell you that by signing those contract annexes that were signed so that I don't see any concern at this point as to the airport and relations with the international airport. However, the fact is that the Covid crisis hit the most air traffic. In this sense and of course the International Airport of Zagreb, which since 2013, has been in regular traffic, this is an example for you that Zagreb was connected to 34 destinations and had 2.3 million passengers, and at the end of 2019 Zagreb had over 3.5 million passengers and was connected to 48 destinations so that in these underage 6 years Zagreb had a certain increase and traffic and, of course, a connection with more significant destinations. I repeat, the Covid crisis has brought certain problems and international airports as well as other airports in Croatia but also in Europe and in the world have been difficult to operate and have not asked for any additional assistance from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we are, they are all challenges in business, mostly to say, brimming with, with instruments available to them on the financial market so that we will probably give them some consent these days for the task of which they will provide the funds, the necessary means to get through this part of the crisis in a more painless way. And also since in 2018 there was one refinancing of the existing credit we gave them and we had to give them consent, there were certain funds created, some funds accumulated that allowed them to be in the positive and that they could function better. They didn't know there was going to be a crown crisis, of course, but they could use it. In other words, I don't really see where the interest would be at stake, the national interest. The fact is that it was a concession contract signed in 2012, there were certain annexes, but in no part of our view in the ministry was at risk of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43651	Thank you. Dear Representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43652	Here, thank you, dear Ministers for your response, and I hope that in this direction, a sequence of events will develop as regards the Zagreb Airport, but I do not honestly agree that they have achieved our strategic interest because in fact everyone in the airport environment has raised significant air traffic, we stagnate with 3.8 million arrivals. As we know the actual reason and the entry into the concession was to increase passengers to 5 million as was Split Airport. I, in fact, why I was raised by this question is concerned because I see that in an annex to the contract of 12 months 2013, the series is that, for a number of reasons, does not actually fall in the traffic of Croatia Airlines or possible bankruptcy by which the Republic of Croatia assumes the loan guarantee of EUR 196 million on itself. That's what makes me worried. As far as the airport is concerned, I expected that because of this, there would be no price hike and we would become competitive and we would attract as many and we would withdraw as possible the number of low-tariff companies. As we know, tourism is our dominant economic branch, and it would have had a significant impact if it hadn't been for this Covid crisis on the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43653	Thank you. The next issue will be asked by the respected representative Tomislav Okrosa, the EU Regional Development Minister and Funds, respected Natasha Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43654	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43655	Comrade Klasic, you may disengage, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43656	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, at the 51st session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia you presented a report on the state of use of ESI funds in the Republic of Croatia, which was then adopted. From the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014 to 2020, the Republic of Croatia is available a total of 10.7 billion euros. By March 25, 2021, projects worth 12.38 billion euros and over 115% of the allocated funds were agreed. A total of 5.41 billion euros and 54% of the allocations were paid and 4.45 billion euros were certified and 41.49% were allocated. In the period from 2013 to March 2021, the difference between payments from the EU budget to the Republic of Croatia's budget from the funds paid from the Republic of Croatia to the EU budget is €38.23 billion, in favour of the Republic of Croatia's budget. My question is which program has the best percentage of the contracting of funds and which programme has the best percentage of the funds paid, and why is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43657	Dear Minister Natasha Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43658	Your Honor, Vice President. Your Honor, MP, I thank you for asking. A very important topic, the use of European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014 to 2020. So, it is true that we have agreed on 115% of allocated funds for the Republic of Croatia, precisely with a view to raising the level and utilisation of funds in order to reach a maximum amount of 10.7 billion euros available by 2023. As far as your question is concerned, which the operational programme records the highest percentage of the agreement, of course here is the operational programme of concreteity and cohesion, which also carries large infrastructure projects, this programme has a contract rate greater than 126%. The best percentage of the funds paid is actually in the rural development programme but this is also the result that the rural development programme carries with it a series of less productive investments but also non-productive ones, here we talk specifically about direct payments, meaning that the envelope of rural development and direct payments is something that is used in a significantly large percentage. Therefore, although the rural development programme has not yet agreed to the full maximum amount, it records the highest percentage of the payment of the funds to the users themselves. When we talk about paid resources from users at the level of all operational programmes, we are already talking about more than 50% and this was also one of the great priorities and this new government to minimise all procedures and to speed up exactly this payment to all useful European funds and ultimately, and to minimise the funding to the European Commission as soon as possible. So current data, 38.23 billion kuna in favour of the RS budget but we continue to continue and the plan is in the next 2 months. A further 3 billion kuna will be verified by the European Commission and this percentage will grow significantly by June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43659	Thank you, dear representative of the District.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43660	Dear Minister, thank you, I am pleased with the answer. I am convinced that in the new programming period from 2021 to 2027, we will use generational opportunity for Croatia as part of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, given about 30 billion euros for recovery and development that will be available in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43661	The next question will be asked by respected representative Marin Mandaric, the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43662	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Butkovic, we have witnessed that for the past 20 years, the Ministry of Transport and the Croatian Roads have made a significant step towards the development of road infrastructure, both in the construction of state roads but also in reconstruction and reconstruction but since I come from Đakov, I will take a look at what affects me and my people living in the area of the city of Đakova and Đakovština. I can't help thinking that Đakovo and Đakovština may have remained a somehow island in the sea of arranged and renewed state roads, so that since the city of Đakovo is with our neighbouring cities, Osijek, Požega, Nasice, Brod, Vinkovci, all of which are not able to be bigger in the 21st century, we know that the reconstruction projects of certain facilities on the state roads are also announced, so please inform us what the Croatian Roads or Resor Ministry plans to do about the state roads in the area of Đakov and Đakovština? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43663	Dear Minister Oleg Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43664	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, as far as Osijek-Baranja County and investment in road infrastructure are concerned, they are really big right now. In addition to these projects that you mention, which concerns the micro-location, which is the city of Đakova and the surrounding area, the completion of the PC corridor towards Bela Manastir is being built at the moment, a project worth about 400 million kuna and we expect that in the following year we will complete this one of the largest infrastructure road projects in Croatia today and at the same time build the Beli Manastir bypass which will definitely unload that part of the traffic and, of course, help to ensure that Slavonia, Osijek-Baranja County is better integrated into the traffic system of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the city of Djakova is concerned, we have recently finished through the city of Djakovo by two state roads, DC 46 and DC 7. As for DC 46 passing through the city centre, the project worth 16 million kuna is ending, that is the Street of Pavićeva and the Street of Petra Preradovic with the course of walking trail and that part of the project goes to its own end, which you mentioned yourself, the investor is Croatian road. The Đakova library, DC 7 is in good condition and there is no need for additional interventions. Right, and in your question it was, it's true, that it's going into reconstruction of existing intersections of DC 7 and DC 515 state roads with county roads. These are two circular flows of total value somewhere around 11 million kuna and for this is a public procurement call and it is ongoing. The project documentation for 2021 includes idea projects, main implementation projects and a location permit for reconstruction of the state road 38 total length 18.9 km, state road 515 length 13.9 km and also state road 46 from the border of Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Srijem County of the total length of 11 km. So three major reconstructions of national roads are being prepared, for which public procurement for the performance of works will be announced after the project documentation has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43665	Thank you. Dear Representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43666	Thank you. Dear Ministers of Gratitude for a comprehensive, content and concrete response. I hope that these two projects that are here are directly ahead of us, in fact the reconstruction of the student bypass, the construction of the circular flow will go on its own during and planned, and all of course with the goal and purpose of improving safety, traffic safety on the roads. In addition to mentioning these three other major and significant projects of reconstruction of state roads in the years ahead, they can somehow conclude that Đakovština, as far as the state road is concerned, expects one real Renaissance. Thank God led by all the government of the Republic of Croatia at the head of HDZ, it is no wonder that we have so much support and received in the 4th constituency and just so go ahead and forward the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43667	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Honorable Representative Ljubimir Kolarek, Minister of Defence Dr. Maria Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43668	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the honourable minister of the country, would ask the question of the respected defence minister, Mr Banozic. In early March, you presented a plan to obtain the Ministry of Defence and concluded contracts with Croatian defence industry producers. What does this mean for the Croatian Army, for the economy and for all workers working in this segment of the economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43669	The response of the respected Defence Minister Banozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43670	I thank the deputy president of the Croatian Parliament. In March 38 contracts and framework agreements with Croatian producers have been concluded with different equipment to equip the Croatian Army. It is about contracts and framework agreements worth 284 million kunas where the Croatian Army, the Ministry of Defence is through processes that have been and previous years have shown that these, all public procurement are true public, no procedure is classified as a sign of secrecy, and as such the Croatian Army is generally appearing as a customer, consumer of equipment and where it is an excellent promoter primarily in all those peace missions and operations in which Croatian soldiers and soldiers participate, where we participate in the promotion of equipment made by our manufacturers and thus interest our allies in future equipment or future production. In addition to this promotional role, the Ministry of Defence with the purchase or purchase of Croatian manufacturers’ equipment gives a certain reference to these same producers when they can also report to an international tender or to equip the other military or other defence forces in other countries. And that's what we've been saying so far, all these years. What is our future is the European Defence Fund and on this topic we have had several meetings with our Croatian producers. For the first time, we will have the opportunity to use European supplies or equipment. The first component will be the research and development that we are already working on with Croatian producers and individual EU Member States where we would go to an even more intensive development of the Croatian defence industry through existing products, but also by developing new ones. And that is where I see an additional opportunity, where the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Defence will no longer be only a consumer or customer directly but will indeed be another one of the transports that will give the opportunity to better export their products to other countries in this case of a Member State of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43671	Dear Representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43672	Thank you very much. Here, I have to admit, I'm not satisfied with the answer for two reasons. The first reason is that it is good and nice to see Croatian soldiers equipped by the Croatian military industry, the other thing and other benefits is that this strengthens the Croatian economy, and I believe and hope it will feel the strongest link of the economy, and these are workers on its salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43673	The next issue will be asked by respected representative Stjepan Kovac, the EU Regional Development Minister and Funds, respected Natasha Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43674	Thank you. Respected ministers, units and local self-government, whether in cooperation with European funds associations, have funded a number of education programmes, such as teaching assistants, diets in primary schools for students of weaker property, extended stay programmes in kindergartens, etc. The end of the school and pedagogical year is coming to an end, and class is due to begin for the next school year. Supporters in childcare classes were financed through a four-year project, ending this school year. On the side now that the state has left most of the selection and control jobs to a local and regional self-government that has neither the number nor the professional capacity to decide who has the right to assist, and who does not, the new competition is not in sight. There's not even an official indicative date when it could be called. At the beginning of April, the first-class enrollment will begin, in a month two in high school, for children with valid solutions will need to provide helpers in teaching. And we're not just not going to know how many helpers we're going to be able to count on, but we're not going to know if it's going to be financed in the current way. I remind you, it's about children with disabilities who need help to go to school in regular schools. This is just one example for many of the competitions we have been counting on or on us or associations, we still don't know when it will be called, what will be the conditions of the application, and how and in what extent these activities will be co-financed, and it is mainly about the most vulnerable groups of society, so I ask you, when will these competitions be called? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43675	The reply of the esteemed Minister Natasha Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43676	Dear Vice-President, honourable parliamentary representative, I thank you for this question, although the issue is directly related to the European Social Fund and this one that you have listed the calls and tenders in question, are directly linked to the European Social Fund and the managing bodies of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions and Social Policy, however, what I can give you from the position of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds that the European Social Fund for the period 2014-2020 is currently 101% of the contract, however, I believe that they still have the means and space to resolve these calls that were really very important for the work of local and regional self-government or specific to address certain social issues. What is important to mention at this point is that we are also working on programming a new multi-annual financial framework, so the European Social Fund plus which will have more than 2 billion euros in funding for the development of different social programmes. Programming should be completed in June of this year after which it is sent for EU verification to the Commission. Very soon, I believe, after that, that you can call first. So it is currently important to mention, of course, in all EU Member States, including the Republic of Croatia, that this is a great year of programming. Creating different programming documents, operational programmes, and after all these operational programmes are adopted, or the EU Commission's regulation concerning the European Structural and Investment Funds is adopted first, we can submit our operational programmes to the verification and immediately after the verification start to call first calls. Both the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds and the Ministry of Social Policy, Labour and Pension System are now preparing their first calls so that we can call immediately after the programme's verification. In particular, some kind of call for the European Social Fund, so we must consult the Ministry of Labour and Pensions... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43677	Dear Representative Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43678	Thank you. Well, I'm not very happy with the answer because I'm afraid we're going to have a situation like we did 4 years ago when in August and September, many parents of children with developmental difficulties, and also, many associations offering and doing help to those children protested because there were no competitions, schools started, many children still had no helpers, and then all of them fell to local self-government units where we financed from urban and municipal budgets for these children because there was no timely competition. I'm afraid that's how it's going to be this year and countless times it's been proven that this government is essentially only working under pressure or the worst problems in the system's failure to work out only after there's, what's happened, what's been a terrible tragedy, which we had to see some days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43679	The next question will be asked by respected representative Sanja Udovic, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, Dr. Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43680	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, Minister, you know that the Soviet Cave is a black spot that is so defined by the Waste Management Strategy and, in fact, by the Waste Management Plan, the Republic of Croatia represents one of the important goals that needs to be achieved by '22. Mr. Namely, the black pit of the Soviet community is extremely burdened by the locals of Viskovo, especially the influence of the cave manifested during the summer months, and then it is actually impossible to live next to the cave. What I want to stress is that in 2018 the Ministry signed the Treaty on the financing of the recovery of the Black Cave of Sovjak, the value of the works amounts to as much as 377 million kuna and from that the Cohesion Fund has been provided with EUR 320 million of grants. The question I'm giving you is very simple. How does the Ministry of State mean in these remaining, just under 32 months choose a contractor, make a contract and be aware that there is a possibility of complaints to end the recovery of the cave Soviet. So it's been two years and eight months since 2018. What was the Ministry doing for 2 years and 8 months, i.e. what was the Fund doing all that time and whether the resolutions of the Black Cave Soviet would be compromised as to the course of time spent and whether only the financing of the recovery of the Black Cave Soviet would be compromised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43681	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Tomislav Ćorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43682	First of all, I thank the question of the respected representative Udovic. Actually let me start with a concrete answer to the last part of your question. It's not about the ministry. It's about the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. I believe you knew that, but since we're in the Parliament, talking about the fund, not the ministry, it would probably be missed at this pre-election time. Therefore, as you know in October 2019, the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund published a procurement procedure, offers that have arrived on this procurement process did not meet the conditions of technical and professional regularity and, as you know, was suspended or repealed. The second is also open in the second phase of the evaluation of offers, i.e. the assessment of offers for the recovery of the black spot of the cave Sovjak. What I would like to point out is the fact that the Ministry and 2018 are in the same position today in terms of the recovery of this black spot, primarily because of its proximity to the houses and that we fully understand the dissatisfaction of the inhabitants of the region. However, on the other hand, I as a minister cannot make the public procurement process in this particular city, in particular in the case of procurement of works to resuscitate this area in some way, as you know, neither you nor anyone in that area could. So I believe that this procedure will be completed in the next period and that the best offer will be chosen and eventually to join the recovery. What saddens me is the fact that you used this current clock for that question given the fact that in the past 2 years. We haven't heard from the signing of that contract on this subject, and if I'm not mistaken, we haven't received any questions from your community about this, on this very important subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43683	Dear representative Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43684	I thank the chairman. Minister, I'm really not happy with your answer. First, because you are the Minister of Environmental Protection, or your Ministry of Labour. Secondly, I am saddened by the fact that you are not familiar with the fact that I asked for the same written answer, I think in October of last year, the answer I received, but from that answer was not decided to see how the ministry would solve the resolution given the remaining period of time that this project is scheduled to be resolved. What also concerns me is the fact that this procedure is still ongoing. Following an electronic public procurement advertiser, I noticed that only 3 offers arrived, of which one bid exceeded the estimated value of purchase by 29 million kuna, while the other two transferred means estimated value by 70% of the amount of funds. What does that actually impose as a conclusion? It concludes that the tender is after this 2nd year. and for 8 months, quite unqualityly made and that I can, in fact, continue to be concerned about whether the resolution will be implemented at all, whether it will be carried out in quality and whether the locals of Viskovo Municipality will be threatened, once again I will point out, with the inefficient work of the Environmental Protection Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43685	Now the question will be asked by the respected representative Sinisha Jankac, Minister of Justice and the Administration of Dr. Ivan Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43686	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. For the first time, the Ministry of Justice and Administration has drawn up specialized plans for each county and municipal court. It is announced that the focus will be on solving pending cases, especially when it comes to cases where they may be obsolete. It is announced that all items older than 7 years will be resolved during this year. How do you plan to do this and what are the effects of these plans, what will the effects of these plans be on the whole judiciary?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43687	Dear Minister Ivan Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43688	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration for the first time based on data available to the Ministry of the e-script system has made one analysis of the effectiveness of the work of the judicial authorities and, in principle, of the traffic lights. So we've divided all the judicial areas, all 15 judicial areas into red, green and yellow, so red are marked judicial areas that have problems with the effectiveness of their work, yellow are marked judicial areas that have medium efficiency and green are marked judicial areas that have satisfactory efficiency. Therefore, the primary objective of this action plan is to reduce the length of court proceedings, then to resolve all cases older than 7 years, and in particular to monitor and resolve criminal cases which in the next 3rd g. They're going out of date. At this point, there are about 430,000 unsolved cases in all courts in the Republic of Croatia. The total length of the proceedings is 283 days. Realisation of this action plan would shorten the length of court proceedings from 283 days to 208 days, and would also resolve additionally from a total of 430,000 about 70,000 cases. We will pay particular attention to all items older than 7 years, they are around 25,000, and they are included in this action plan in a way that all these items are older than 7 years. They do this year. And I would like to point out that this action plan will also be followed by monthly analyses of the work of all courts and all judges, so that, apart from that monthly analysis and the three-month reunion with all the presidents of the courts, we will consider and see the effects of this action plan. In addition to the action plan which will result, I believe certain results, the changes are going in the normative part, so where the Law on the Procedural Procedure will also introduce certain deadlines for resolving the case, a contradictory procedure will also be carried out to analyse the Law on Criminal Procedure, and in fact through these two important procedural laws, hence the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Procedural Procedure, we further allow the courts to do what is more effective and what they do more effectively. The important element of the effectiveness of the work of the judicial authorities is certainly digitisation. Here, we continue to digitise, especially by upgrading the e-script and e-communication system, which has significantly accelerated the judicial process, but also by communicating with the parties in these proceedings, and we also see a great opportunity of course in the National Resistance and Recovery Plan where we have foreseen a number of other investments in judicial infrastructure. So, these action plans and the amendments to the key laws, the Law on Prosecution and the Criminal Procedure Act, and further investment in digitisation, we believe that we will achieve that our courts work more efficiently and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43689	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43690	Thank you to the Honorable Minister. Here is the problem of a long-term trial that is ever known, a big problem for our citizens, especially for the economy. The bankruptcy proceedings that last 10 years, commercial courts in which judges appear as peacemakers in the Chamber of Commerce. I believe that these activities will speed up all these court proceedings and I wish you a great deal of success and that this is just the beginning of solving problems and justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43691	Now the respected representative, Angelko Strick, will ask the question of the Minister of Science and Education, Prof. Rejoiced Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43692	Thank you. Ministers, in the term of the previous government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, in the area of the Varazdin County, a student home was built in Varazdin, started with the largest primary school project in St. Ilia, with a project to build a centre of competence within the medical school of Varazdin and the “Arboretum Opeka” in Vinica, as well as with a number of smaller but important investments and projects. In order to continue this good course, and in order to achieve a uniform pedagogical standard that is an integral part of the educational system of equal opportunities, there is still a need to build several objects in the area of the Varazdin County. As part of the network of primary schools, it is necessary to build schools in Ivanac, Novi Vesa, Strmac and Sibovac Podravski and build school-sports halls in Bisag, Donjo Voća, Vinica,... Stones, Cvetlin, Završnje, Črešnjevo, Drushkovci. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As part of high schools, to build the Ludbreg High School and in Varazdin School of Economics and Music. So my question is, and despite being the founder of all these primary and secondary schools of the Varazdin County, will the Ministry of Science and Education be involved in the construction of these school facilities? Also, I am taking the opportunity, recently you were in Varazdin and the Dean of the Faculty of Organization and Informatics handed over two contractual 2.5 million kunas to organize Villa Oršić because they are fighting a battle with lack of space. I also use the opportunity to mention that the Faculty of Organization and Informatics in Varazdin has all the necessary permits and consent and a building permit to build a campus and I ask you to support this investment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43693	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43694	Dear Representative, I could now say very briefly that we will finance it all, but I will not answer you in such a way that, of course, I will answer you in a way that all of what you have listed and not only you from the Varazdin County but also all other counties, in the first order when it comes to preschool and primary education and then, of course, upgraded and high school but also the part that is high schooled, we intend to finance it really in the way that so far, let's say, in this amount of money that has been secured in the national recovery and recovery programme where, as you certainly know, the Ministry of Science and Education for that part of the reform processes that we have proposed, we have received about 15% of the total amount. So that's about 5.1 billion for your education and 2.4 billion for science, research and development. In this case, we are talking about pre-school and primary school facilities where we imagined that all schools would move to one-way work, hence, wherever they needed to upgrade or build additional capacity, they would be realised from this money. The reform will be carried out in a way that our children will then be in schools by about 4 p.m., which includes, of course, a warm meal and work outside of that morning programme, so that children who are now in schools by the number of active hours spent in the school, in the lowest place in the EU, would be expanded or increased almost twice, thus opening up a whole series of teaching opportunities in those segments that are often problematicd by us, which is understanding and transferring interpretations, knowledge that they have learned and also a whole series of civil education programs, so on which they now receive much more space and, of course, more physical activity, and now not to explain, what all curriculum will be prescribed but also the construction of preschool facilities, etc., the reform assumes and compulsory first year preschool. As far as higher education is concerned, there is approximately 600 million for the primary digitisation of higher education, which would then lead to the single register of all Croatian diplomas that can then be linked to the E-Citizen still. Also, in the work that I was just talking about is about higher education, there is a whole series of space since somewhere around a billion are foreseen, one billion is about, I'm talking about the euro, about investment in the research sector, and in this sense building and purchasing capital equipment and the like, while the other money would be overlooked in a programme that primarily refers to the careers of young researchers and programmes that lead to the start of ups and spin off companies, so new and modern technologies linked to the economy absolutely and this is as one of the preconditions and also, a special synergy in some programmes and projects, again aimed at cooperation in innovation and research. It will probably be possible for the first time to this extent [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] to finance in this way. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43695	The Honorable Representative, Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43696	Minister, I thank you both for your response and for any assistance for investments in the Varazdin County area. The only thing known is the county coat of arms, flag and head of education, since the 1990s, before each election of the county level. I also believe that because of his involvement in Varazdin County on many topics related to education, among the first or leading in the Republic of Croatia, among others, we have introduced free transportation of high school students, nutrition, free textbooks, etc. I therefore believe that all these upgrades and upgrades will be an additional step in the quality of the educational system of our area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43697	The next question will be asked by respected representative Gary Cappelli to the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43698	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister Butkovic, then election i.e. The pre-election period, so somehow we all want to brag about the projects, as far as the Primorje-Gorski County is concerned, who has the interview, so he thinks he's threatening to say what was being invested and that it's kind of a thank-you to the one who's talking about it at the moment. I would like a little bit to simply know what national projects are, which are national projects, which the government of the Republic of Croatia recognized, which means to recognize government projects, so in one example I would say, let's say, what it means to make infrastructure in time, how much it means for future investors, so let's say, recently, the Lürssen group that signed and took Bencic, the former factory, say, to hire over 40, 50 engineers where it would be drawn, if we could say that, the most luxurious yachts, perhaps even ships in the world. But to do that, we need infrastructure. The government and you ministers, therefore, have done maximum work on building the infrastructure in order to create conditions for the possibility of more quality tendering and Porto Baroša and Zagreba and Brajdice, therefore, that the port will achieve the results it has had here as never before. So these are all the conditions that we manage with infrastructure, so I would like to distinguish a little bit and see, let's say, the last signing of 17 million, let's say, the port administrations of the Primorje-Gorski County, which all means for islands and coastal areas and how much of this quality of investment of future partners themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43699	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43700	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, Your Honor. As regards the construction of port infrastructure, it has been one of the main priorities of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure since the very beginning of this government with Prime Minister Plenkovic since 2016. Here, I'll tell you one thing, in 2015, the total national funding for the construction of ports throughout Croatia was 23 million kuna, and today national funds are around 90 million kuna and European funds that are over a billion kuna currently invested in the construction, reconstruction and reconstruction of port infrastructure, not only in the Primorje-Gorski County but in all 7 Croatian counties. That's, that's numbers, that shows that the priorities in infrastructure building, the total investment in the port infrastructure today are over a billion kuna. As far as the Primorje-Gorski County is concerned, only 6 million kunas were allocated there in 2015. We have in the past 4 years invested in the Primorje-Goran County are in port infrastructure over 300 million kuna, which includes, of course, for the first time the possibility of financing such funds by the EU, which is 85% grants and 15% secures the state budget, i.e. the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. It is, that I call renaissance on the Croatian coast, not only in the Primorje-Gorski County, that this does not turn out to be just a traditional policy for you and me as a minister from the Primorje-Gorski County but also in all 7 counties, our colleagues in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where the largest current investments in port infrastructure are in the territory of Croatia and of course, and in other counties, not to mention them all together now. As for port projects, since the completion of the reconstruction on Brajdica, the Zagreb coast, these investments are today in the Primorje-Gorski County of Rijeka, when I am talking only about the agglomeration of Rijeka's port over a billion kuna, which is mostly financed by the EU, and as you yourself mentioned, after the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a tender for the construction of the current largest investment in nautical tourism has been launched, it is the Porto Baroš port for which an offer has arrived, now it is in the evaluation, so I can't talk much about it, but I believe that everything will be okay and that the government will take a decision to choose from somewhere in the middle of next month. In the next financial perspective and through the resistance mechanism, we provided additional resources for the construction of port infrastructure, so that by 2027 until a new perspective will be invested somewhere around 2 billion kunas in the port, in the reconstruction of the port, with one exception, in the current perspective we could only build ports on the islands and ports in the coast that were in the function of both island connections, and now we have taken down the barrier so that all the island and coastal places that have ready projects can run, build ports and waterfronts, which are not only the protection of aquariums, which are not only in the function of security but are the face and face of every coastal and coastal location. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43701	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43702	Thank you very much, President. Ministers, I'm sure, especially the people on the coast and the island, when they hear this data, because living on an island, of course, is the most important thing to connect to, and where there's a quality of integration, so, and resolving infrastructure issues, I'm glad we recognized it, and I'm glad when you say this data, so there's always that point, which would say whether it's this or that option in power. We have proved that we have recognized projects and that in some way, regardless of party membership, we knew because of the citizens exactly that, and the government has approached them in such a way without these expressions of view as we are usually wanted to accuse them so that we invest where HDZ is in power, this is real proof that we recognized that Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County needs investments to be recognized through infrastructure and the government recognized it and thus financed it, and that we are not still talking about over 200 small projects in tourism, 56 million kuna for the city of Rijeka for the capital of culture, hospital etc. So this government recognized projects rather than specifically partyically how at certain times it can be spoken and spoken, especially in pre-election times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43703	The 31st issue of MP Ivan Radic is being asked by EU Regional Development Minister Natashi Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43704	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Underpass in St. Leopold Bogdan Mandic in Osijek, so-called Underpass Chepinjska in Osijek is a long-awaited project that will solve one of the biggest traffic problems in the city of Osijek. According to my information, the project has all valid permits, but the funds are missing. I wonder what you, or your ministry, and within what time limits can he do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43705	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43706	Dear President, I am familiar with the problem of connection traffic or the problem at the western entrance to the city of Osijek, the city's most burdened transversal is St. Leopold Bogdan Mandic. What is true, and that is that all project documentation is complete, that is ready to be reconstructed and modernised by building underpasses and under the railway line Osijek – Zagreb. The value of the project itself was estimated at 94 million kuna. About 80 million kunas have been requested from EU funds and what can confirm to you that last year, when the operational programme Competitiveness and Cohesion was amended in cooperation with the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure at the initiative of Osijek-Baranja County and Croatian Roads, operational programme has been amended and funds have been provided. In the announcement I have for some time limited call, the call is ready to be made in the next few weeks and called out. So what we expect is that in the next 2.5 to 3 years, the entire roadway, the new infrastructure, will be built and the permanent problems of entering the city itself will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43707	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43708	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, there is Minister Butkovic here, so I ask that the additional 15% of the funds be provided on the items of your ministry or on the items of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure because such an amount as we know is a great burden on the budget of the city of Osijek. For this reason, I support all investments in transport in eastern Croatia, such as the last investment in a new river cruise port on the Osijek Promenade opened by Prime Minister Plenkovic worth 13.8 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43709	Sandra Bencic, 32st question, asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43710	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, we have learned from the published correspondence or e-mail correspondence that Governor Vujčić met with representatives of the Knighthead Fund and placed himself in the de facto position of their consultant. The result is that their offer for Agrokor has passed after he has made their offer more attractive at the request of the lower-ranked bureaucrats Knighthead fund. The consequences of this are the loss of 800 million kuna pension funds, or of our workers and workers who pay in them, and huge losses to our suppliers who have not even been paid off. Although when I talk about suppliers, we have to say that it was you who made your decisions that made it so-called. It pays the consultants of Agrokora more money than it was the border debt to suppliers. I say you just made it possible for them because you decided to roll up the credit model that many experts claim was unnecessarily high. You are the ones that Martina Dalic informed about the whole process and the arrangements and you are the ones who made lex Agrokor and a series of decisions that resulted in the end being the majority owner of the former Agrokor literally the Russian Federation who owns banks that are mostly today's Fortens. So I was wondering if you knew that Governor Vujčić as governor of the National Bank met with lower-ranked representatives of the Risk Capital Fund, did you know that he advised them and did you know that it was through him that they came to the government or your Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic? Do you think Governor Vujcic should be responsible for the government and the assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43711	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43712	Thank you very much, Mr. Bencic. As for Governor of the CNB, I suggest you ask him, not me, the things that concern him. As for Agrokor, so the first law was passed by the Croatian Parliament, not me. It's very important to keep in mind. Four years ago, just like this around Easter, you may not remember it, perhaps you were then a consultant for European funds or were GONG transformed now into a political party, perhaps not following the situation that was with the largest Croatian company that had 30,000 employees in Croatia and another 30,000 employees in neighbouring countries. Well, the company didn't come into trouble because of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, so the company didn't ask for its funding in Croatia, in Western Europe, in the United States, and then in Russia, thanks to my recommendation or my government. Now you're talking about who owns it. I think you're a lawyer, right? Yes, it is. Well, you probably know then that the owner becomes in such situations the one who's a believer, someone who borrowed some money, and the one who loaned it to him couldn't pay it back. Let's draw a line, what happened? Are there any costs for the state budget? No, they're not. Has the company been transformed and running? It's working. Are the jobs preserved? They did. Did the O.P.G.'s up to the last lip get all the obligations the company owed them? They did. Did the suppliers of the company, all literally through the bargaining process, stay on their feet? They are, they work, they work, they do, even after that we probably helped some in the context of the covid crisis. Everyone's here, everyone's working, the company's working, the budget's protected, the Croatian economy is functioning, the OPGs are calming down, the workers are working. And the company is transformed and gradually going from one impossible situation to a normal market functioning situation. In fact, here you have now seen that "Ledo" as one of the brands, one company, so "Ledo Croatia", "Ledo Chitluk" and "Frikom" has received or will win in this procedure "Nomad Foods", offers "Nomad Foods" new owners for EUR 615 million, for 615 million. I think it's a lot better than maybe we were then four years ago. let it all go to waste, to have unemployment, to have as a domino effect the downfall of not only that company but a series of companies that were connected to it, and that the OPGs and our farmers were left with nothing. So what do you think the state should do, let such a company go to waste in front of your eyes without your guilt or create a framework to keep their jobs and gradually transform the company without the state having any damage? What do you think the government should do? Do you think the government should watch, buy popcorn or this ice cream or stick, it's here one lady who's already, you're the other that runs in some way indirectly this topic today needed to sit down like in a movie theater, cross hands and watch, and watch it fail. If you think it's politics, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43713	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43714	Dear Prime Minister, except for your cleverly whispering away my key question, which is whether you knew that Governor Vujčić had literally consulted one of the interested parties as governor of the CNB, and you have whispered probably because the fact of it could incriminate you in future proceedings. I'll tell you one more thing, every real statesman knows there's no one option to solve the problem, there's no two, there's always more. You're saying there were two or all of them letting it go to waste or doing what you did. You're talking about the O.P.G.s you saved. The debt to them was less than the two-month fee that you gave to the consultants of Agrokor. What about borderline long suppliers that were also smaller than the total number you paid for the consultants and allowed them to do that with Lex Agrokora? What about 800 million kuna saving our citizens and citizens' pensions? When we draw the line, that's the bill we get. The account we get is that you have made it possible for interested financial institutions owned by a single state who, unlike you, knows very well what its geostrategic interest is, to gain majority ownership, and you have not made it possible for our suppliers, it has not occurred to you that you can organise them into a cooperative, that cooperative can be the owner of majority companies, such as in Italy, that you can organize the OPG into this, that you can enable the transformation of that company in a way that it truly protects Croatian food and agricultural interests. No, you went to favour those financial institutions that are now owned by another state that doesn't necessarily have a friendly interest in you and that interest can change. That's the position you brought us in, and that's what we have when we draw the line... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43715	Thank you very much. Now it is MP Tomislav Klaric, the question is raised by Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43717	I thank you, President HS. Dear Minister, we are witnessing a crisis that has hit our country, catastrophic earthquakes and everything that our country has faced both the Croatian government and the Croatian government. But we are also witnessing what the skeptics, and we heard it today in the assembly, do not want to admit, the incredible construction and the huge investment cycle in the entire Republic of Croatia. What I can personally witness is construction in the Primorje-Gorski County, and here is the part of what many have opposed, and what is practically astoundingly implemented as LNG terminals when practically from sea level is raised gas pipeline up to 750 meters above sea level "MRS Evil". In any case, the economy and all the projects that take place in this area are commendable. But what we are all aware of is the most practically hit by those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I'm actually interested in what specifically your ministry has done to help them, to enable them and to facilitate the survival of these difficult times, so that, after leaving the crisis, they can continue their activities, save their jobs and fill the state and local budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43718	Just a little bit Minister, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43719	The Honorable Chairman has been injured. 238, insult and demeaning of MPs. Namely, the asked question was so narrow, so obviously ordered and so empty that it offends my moral integrity as the elected MP who was forced here to listen to such half-tronity and to witness the collapse of the institute of the current clock. So I ask you to give Agent Klaric a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43720	Comrade Rasputic, this is not funny at all, I am giving you a warning and I ask you not to do this, because every MP has the right to ask the question of what will and you are not the ones who will determine content, morality or anything else that is related to that question. And the question was perfectly normal as can be heard, and it's been heard for the last 30 years in this assembly. You get a warning, this will be different for you now if you do something wrong again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43721	In violation of Article 238, the Honored President of the Assembly, you have graduated in your own time with Mr. Sanader, graduated with Mrs. Kosor, mastered with Mr. Karamark and now you're doctoring with Master Plenkovic. But at least you've been lurking in style and measure unlike these MPs. So I appeal, so I urge you to teach them, style and measures. Instead of giving me a warning. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Rasdic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43722	I was very pleased when you were in my constituency, so when I got more votes than your entire list, so much for your credibility, so much for your ability, your intelligence and everything you think you own, and you don't own. Here's a colleague of Claric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43723	Dear President, the MP hurt Article 238 since he called me a sleazy, apparently that he never realised in his life any project in the economy or in any way participated in the opening of any job so he doesn't know what I was talking about, but in any case he insulted me with his performance and I think he deserves a reminder.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43724	I gave a warning, you heard. Here you go, colleague Rasdic. You've got another one. What? I didn't see, I'm sorry, here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43725	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Col. Rasdić was injured in Article 238, because he was not able to behave in the assembly, and apparently today, as a MOST, they robbed Bosnia in this assembly, and therefore they came in this way prepared to read both the question and the answer and the breach of the Rules of Procedure. One intellectual at Mr. Rasputic's level wouldn't expect him to read what needs to be said. Did they write him at the club downstairs or don't know, he read it. And the second time the Rules of Procedure hurt and read it again, so it's good that you gave him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43726	Thank you very much. Yeah, all right, here you go, buddy Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43727	I'm glad Mr. Boric is so focused on reading to whom he writes might have some experience. Article 238 Mr. Jandrokovic, you reiterate your election triumph with me in the 2nd election unit, I will only say that the biggest Croatian party led by Dr. Francis Tudjman whose symbolic capital you carry today achieved a better result than my list not thanks to you but despite you. Go to the head of independent lists, and we will see how the Croatian citizens view them. So much for your... [[Agreement: A colleague sit down.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43728	17,000 and some votes I got, I don't like to talk about it much, people who follow, more than the whole list of your MOSTs. And it tells you best about your credibility and mine, and your journalistic career and what you wrote most of all, you were committed to muddling me, insulting me, diphimating me, and eventually your result was what it was, so it tells you all about it. Smart enough. Let's move on, fellow Coric, please welcome Minister Coric's answer to the parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43729	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must admit that I forgot the question after these locks of Representative Rasdic, and on the other hand I would be happy to give this one half a minute of my time if there is more to read from the note, but we will leave it for next time. I am sure that given what we have done for the Croatian economy over the past year, this conversation could take much, much longer, but let me first of all present how and how we have taken measures to help the economy at the government level. At the very beginning of the crisis and entering the first, in the first phase of closing job protection measures from 4,000 kunas or at first 3,250 kunas, and then 4,000 kunas covering over 650,000 workers in the real sector have definitely not experienced in the past year what many Mediterranean countries have experienced, which is a significant reduction in the share of active or active labour in the segment of employees, and this is certainly something that should be highlighted. To these measures, more than $9.5 billion was eventually spent, those as you know go on. In the second phase, we went with the measure that we co-financed the reduction of working time in the labour intensive industries, and that measure came to fruition. When we talk about the settlement of the costs of entrepreneurs, what should certainly be pointed out is a measure of settlement of fixed costs spent on over 200 million kunas. Finally, in addition to this direct assistance, I will point out also the fact that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and HAMAG BICRO through the moratorium on credit obligations made it possible for a good part of the entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia to survive for the past year. Here I will add the fact that HAMAG went with two very intense credit lines, the first worth up to EUR 100,000, which was spent over a billion and 200 kuna, and the second one of the 50,000 Euros, over which about 450 million kuna has been placed so far. I want to highlight the fact that in 2020, the year that all economies of the world would like to forget because it led to a terrible decline in economic activity at global level, but on the other hand, the Croatian economy in 2021 after the fall of 8.4% enters with very high growth rates for this year and next year. This will certainly contribute to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan that has been discussed here today and its realization through numerous projects, both public and private. Finally, I will also announce a tender for increasing the production capacity that we have developed in the framework of the RECT-EU and we will implement in the coming months at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. It's about a billion kuna, a billion 140 million to co-finance an increase in production capacity in the processing industry. We believe that it deserves it and that it is the best way to increase the competitiveness of SMEs in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43730	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43731	I thank you for your reply, and I'm going to wear it a little bit since I could hear it on paper here with some people criticizing and calling. I have the honour of leading one city and working actively on the ground. I've been through practically all of the government, we haven't had this kind of investment situation yet, in the development of the economy, which we can all testify about, and we can all look at it with our own eyes and see it. Only in my space, my industrial zone in the past few years, 41 companies, 20 halls built, Mr. Rasdic, 8 are built and 13 is built. 2,000 jobs, one small town. You know why? Understanding the Government of the Republic of Croatia. To understand the Ministry of Economy, available EU funds, never better, more adapted loans for the economy, ask them. The easiest thing to do here is to sit down, receive a council salary, write a few days before, make up who we're going to call a little bit, who we're going to throw at some kind of a pillar of shame. To watch what is being built in the territory of Croatia, I can speak specifically in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County, the hospital in Rijeka is being built, the most expensive section of the road is being built from the Zagreb coast, the gas pipeline was being built, the county port administration is being built, the funding of EU funds, every few contracts are being signed, Učka tunnel is being dug, the Pelješki bridge is being built, that it was ever so worked in the nearer or further Croatian history, and when someone here is telling the truth, then it is called like, someone is being licked. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43732	Thank you very much. Thank you, dear colleague Klaric. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: It is the citizens who will say it.]] Let's move on. A colleague, Tomaševic, raises the question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43734	Thank you. My question is to Prime Minister Plenkovic and it's very simple. Are you the Prime Minister, are you the Prime Minister who knows or is you the Prime Minister who doesn't know? Why do I ask you that? If you type in the Google search engine word “Andrey Plenkovic I didn’t know” you get as many as 150,000 results, which is a really impressive number. There are some cultural "I didn't know about the circumstances of Kujundzic's property affair", there are some current ones, "I don't know why USKOK and DORH failed to check the serious accusations of bribing judges within 5 months" or "I don't know why there is no ban on temporary leaving of the country for Zoran Mamic", after being convicted legally for almost 5 years in prison. However, there are some old current ones, "I didn't know Dragan Kovacevic was under investigation when I extended his mandate as director of a public firm." The man, by the way, was arrested again this morning. There are also some current ones when you said you didn't know about the circumstances of HDZ Mayor Požega Puljasic when they surfaced on where he ordered the director of the municipal company to set up the competitions. However, what you certainly knew was that Puljasic as the mayor of Požega was, that he had the DORH charge for the second case and yet you put him on the list for the Parliament and when that indictment was confirmed to him by the court, we had to take off that immunity in the first days of the term and what you certainly know as well, and what I want to know is that he, as a volunteer mayor of Požega, was employed a few days ago without a competition in the Požega House of Health, that as a graduate economist, he was running the driving park of that home of health, which is why the person who did this earlier, was fired. Did you know that, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43735	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43736	Thank you, well-respected representative Tomašević. I would like you to know about Zagreb and the Zagreb budget, its development as our candidate Davor Filipovic. You've had quite a time. You were just, that's good, you see, here, friend Bencic, how your friend, clapping, that's good because you had to come to face a young doctor of economics and professor of economics with your hakl partner, Josko Klisovica, and it's in the circumstances that you like, but it's convenient for you to know, it's good for people to know. [[Applause.]] So that's the first one. I know that because I followed that. Secondly, I didn't know you were such a fan, so you Google me, you Google me plus some formulations, and then you make up, you're very much like the coat of arms, which, unlike you, is a lawyer, but he cares about the law, and you have no idea about the law. So you, as an agent, think I should know as prime minister about the secret reconnaissances both done by the police, the BOOK and the DORH. If you belong to that group of politicians in Croatia who think that I should deal with it as prime minister, then we have a big problem. Then we have a big problem in the idea of what is a three-division of the government and what is the independence of the institutions and what is the secrecy of the reconnaissance because I see that you're walking in the direction that's pure offside, but what's the deep offside of about, that you're asleep in a deep sleep, there's no siege in basketball, we're going to do it with Bauk later on about basketball, now this is a football siege that shows one enormous ignorance that you're talking about and you're going to basically stick to labels. And you know what your problem is, and the problem is the entire left? You're troubled by the transformation of HDZ, it's bothering you... Eee, you're being tortured, you're being tortured, you're being tortured. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] First of all, you've been plagued by defeat since July 5th, here, ask Hajdas Doncic, he wakes up at night in the middle of 4am 5 and thinks he's won 68th term, thinks Bernardic is prime minister and thinks you're his coalition partner, but unfortunately it's just a dream. You've been tortured for nine years. The opposition is why you are so nervous, you are now the heroes of social networks following how they washed you because of today's current clock all the left press, all of you, that you are sleepy, that you are boring, that you have no idea that your questions are nothing, and now the last 5 have gone into electricity so much that MP Rasudiæ went to write to himself the injury of the Rules of Procedure. It hasn't been seen yet. So you've had that out of, I don't know, an hour, you realize that these are washing you, holding the presses instead of the questionnaires, and this one's still writing a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It hasn't been seen yet. Even Bauk hasn't seen it in the assembly yet, and you're giving me room to mess with you. So you've got Agent Tomašević stinging and intrusions and comments about who knows how the system works, what the USKOK does, what the DORH does, what the police do. As for Puljasic, Puljasic is no longer there, Puljasic was removed as you saw immediately immunity without a problem and Puljasic resigned as a representative and Puljasic will not be the mayoral candidate of HDZ and that bothers you. You are troubled by this transformation because we solve our problems and clean up and get the greatest support we have ever received from this electoral system. and you find it difficult, and I understand you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43737	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43738	So I think about, let's start at the beginning as to defeat in July as you say. Here's a colleague I'll boast the speaker of the assembly that he won as much as 17,000 votes, and then maybe I'll say that I got more votes from the president even though I went to parliamentary elections for the first time in the 1st constituency where mostly party presidents are coming out, which is probably the hardest. So much for losing as far as our coalitions are concerned. Secondly, you didn't answer to a colleague named Bencic who you never answered on your current watch, did you know that Governor Vujčić was meeting with the representatives of the Nayed Fund or not? So, did you know? You didn't answer my question either, did you know that the mayor of Požega was employed as an economist and that he runs a health care car park and that the former person who led it had been fired earlier? You didn't answer. As for what I know and what I don't know, I believe I'll show what I know and what I can do in the next four years. in Zagreb. As for what you know about political staffing when you elected Davor Filipovic as the mayoral candidate of HDZ, I think he's already said all about it. You opted for the candidate's alibi, you got your finger involved, and that's where he screwed you up, and that's your problem, that's your problem. What's really important here is the next thing you know, and what you don't know, we'll see after 3. How much the number of results will increase in Google search parties on the words "Andrey Plenkovic, I didn't know" because a prime minister who doesn't know can't be prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43739	My colleague Tomasevic, when you mentioned me, I did not boast but merely put out the facts... No, no, these are the facts that I answer to slander, dysphamation, and continuous plantings I've faced, that's all. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] And the fact and numbers tell you how people look at us sitting here. ... Well, I didn't mention you, but the HDZ did get a little bit more than you did. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] If you're looking at only individually, I've watched a lot of these heroes here who have passed through the assembly and who have gotten very much alone and then after 4 years. There wasn't any more. This is the difference between organization and people who act seriously, organization and solo singers who very quickly end their careers. All right. Comrade Bencic, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43740	Yes, I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The 137, which says a member of the government, including, of course, the prime minister, is obliged to answer the question immediately or to state the reasons why he cannot answer. So, neither my colleague Tomasevic answered the explicit question and clearly asked if he knew or didn't know about the employment of your excellent staff in Požega at the home of health, so he didn't answer that question. He didn't answer to me either, and he's not answering the question because [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] He doesn't know what Google says he doesn't know. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleagues Bencic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43741	Comrade Bencic, you would obviously determine how anyone in this assembly will speak, but we are unlikely to see the true nature of all of you who have recently appeared here in the assembly. Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, No, of course the Rules of Procedure aren't hurt, only I can give you a warning if you want. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I'm you, I'm you... No, my colleague Bencic, what you said wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] None of us here can decide the quality of someone's answer or your question. It can be smart, it can be stupid, it can be missed, it can be excellent, but it is decided by those who listen, and these are citizens who will base their opinions on all of us to... Comrade Bencic, you're getting a warning, and that's how we're gonna end this controversy. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go, Mr. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43743	Thank you, Your Honor. So I refer the question to the respected Prime Minister. So here's the clue to these previous questions, so what do you think of your mayoral doctorate in Split? You said he had an envious academic career, so you agree with his opinion that, I quote, the theoretical paradigm of growth of permanent permeability caused operational, social and environmental concerns, given the risk of excessive capacity and dyseconomy of development, the quote was completed. So, do you know that the gentleman is under serious suspicion of plagiarizing his doctorate and what do you intend to do if these doubts prove correct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43744	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43745	Thank you, well-respected representative Puljak. So, as MP Tomašević feared HDZ candidate Davor Filipovic who proved superior in their performances, you can all laugh as much as you want and try to stick to labels, but you're a little worried that man knows more about the city, which is more eloquent, more political, more combative, and even more sportingly, Bauk knows it as a basketball player, impertinent in communication, and you can't mate in it, so you're now using the parliamentary stage as Tomasevic drags Klisovic to play 2 to 1, you now want to help your own wife in the Split mayor's game. So, I have a new "stalker" instead of Maras, it's Tomaševic, and now we have an assistant representative Puljak to his own wife in the Split mayor's game. It's important, it's an assist, behind the back, suddenly, suddenly, there might be some foul attack, Arsen, who knows. So it's an interesting sport that takes place here in the assembly. It's basically totally funny what you use the current clock for and how you want to spend it instead of being constructive and useful. As for the HDZ mayor's candidate, for mayor of Split, Mr. Mihanovic, he has his doctorate, he has his university council, I guess he had some mentor, I guess there was some commission, and I'm guessing it was some kind of defense. If something is not in line with the methodology of scientific work, let them decide the competent committees and that seems to me, the University of Osijek, as far as I understand. It's not for me to get into the evaluations of the contents of his doctoral dissertation. Whether it will help your husband or not in a game that he will surely lose in Split, that is another question now, but since this has come down to some game in HS that should have, for example, positive repercusions for candidates in local elections, whether in Zagreb or in Split, we will, therefore, participate exactly as politely as we should, without fouls, with respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43746	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43747	So, Mr. Prime Minister, this was a question, which, that is, your answer should have shown how you behave, which for you means actually plagiarism and how you treat those who are, here, and under suspicion of plagiarism. Let me just tell you what plagiarism is. So it's an act of adopting or copying other people's written art or other creative work into their own without giving direct authorship or exporters. So it's about the illegal and unethical acquisition of someone else's work. So what's more important than your opinion is more important is what the Senate University of Osijek will say about the doctorate, the question is whether it will determine before the local elections, and even if it determines something behind the local elections, so the question is, will you do anything about it, will you pull the candidate out of the race? You're protecting, therefore, a man who is seriously suspected of plagiarizing, it's actually your way of managing this entire country. We have here, right now here, the breakdown of the social care system, we have a breakdown of the health system, the disappearance of medicines in hospitals, a year ago, at the beginning of this lockdown, you had dozens of deaths in your homeland for the elderly, especially in Split, whose head was the long-standing, former mayor of Omis, so that's the way this country is managed. Positioning on the positions of people who actually meet your party conditions, setting up similar, not capable, setting up people who do not have the necessary knowledge about matter and subject. That is why we are at the bottom of all the scales in Europe that talk about the development of a society. That's why, what you're boasting is that we're getting the most money from the EU, now in the Recovery Plan, we're getting it, I'd say We're in a position, in Europe, like we used to be. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Kosovo was in Yugoslavia. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43748	Let's go to the last question MP Mirela Ahmetovic asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43749	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Prime Minister. I will start by referring to what was said earlier in my colleague Tomasevic's response, and it is that we are all afraid and concerned about the transformation of HDZ. Well, that shouldn't concern you, nor should you take it negatively. Therefore, the transformation of HDZ, and as you participate in political life, also depends on the transformation of Croatia for the better. After all, you yourself have been here for years to change Croatia for the better. When something negative is respected by your stranger, such as the verdicts for the literal robbery of the people, then you say you have nothing to do with it, but way, you won't be responsible. You claim that you and the people around you are transparent, honest and responsible for leading the Republic of Croatia. But what you're saying has nothing to do with reality. For example, in the case of the secretary of state at the Croatian Defence Ministry when USKOK's investigation took place against her, she first moved a little bit, and then she got a job at the same ministry, however, now as a counselor. Then you claimed, quote, so I read, “It must work and receive wages. ” The same sentence, I quote, so I read, "Well man has no income, he will live on," came out of the mouth of the President of the Administrative Council of the House for, at home for the health and health of Požeko-Slavon County, when he justified the employment of Mr. Puljasic in a way that one worker had to quit in order to get a job. My question to you is, what do you, as prime minister, recommend to that worker who was fired to hire the USKOK defendant HDZ, former HDZ parliamentary representative and Mayor Požega? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43750	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43751	Thank you very much, ma'am. Representative Ahmetovic. You ask what is different than when we have the trust of Croatian voters compared to the time before. So you know what, until the covid crisis, you know what's grown in Croatia? Employment increased, wages increased, pensions increased, social contributions increased, GDP increased, exports increased, investments increased, tourism income increased and investment increased, credit ratings rose to investment levels. You know what went down? Taxes, unemployment, public debt, we replaced the deficit with a surplus. These are all your achievements before the covid. These are your achievements before the covids so they don't accidentally think that we've forgotten it. If you think with your labels, your pamphlets, your insults are rare, you'll forget it, you won't. You know that the average salary in Croatia is now nearly 7,000 kuna, 7,000 kn, that has grown in our term of office by 1.337.00 kuna. That's five times more to you than during the term of office of three of my predecessors. All this has been increased to 232 kunas from 2009 to 2016, which is what these achievements are for you and people see it for you. And then when people come before the election and come to the polls instead of Restart round the HDZ, you end up at 41, and we end up at 66, and that's the fact and that picture of the 2020 state. is something that my impression to you is quite difficult to fall on. It's hard for you, not only for you as SDP's political secretary, I understand that it's not easy, you're a new political secretary, you're a young force, in Omislj you boycotted as chief, a project that people in Croatian energy wanted, wanted and dreamed about 40 years old, and it's called LNG Terminal, where the capacities are filled with 3.g. 100%, and the next 3rd. more than 80% and will lead to a reduction in the price of gas for households, a project from which you will have both a municipal fee and a part of a fixed and part of a variable concession and which will contribute to you as Commissioners of the Omis. You were against it, against Croatia having a terminal that makes us relevant even geostrategic as Mrs. Bencice, maybe we don't know what's geostrategic, but we thought maybe it wasn't so bad to have an LNG terminal. That's not so bad. Maybe it's good for Croatia, maybe it's a good diversification of gas supply. That's what's very good. And as for Mr. Puljasic, one more time I'll tell you, when an immunity was to be removed, when he was to resign here after the information that was then released to the public, which was new, he resigned and cannot return to HS. We did it, what did you do? What did you do as a political secretary? He's not here anymore, he resigned, he resigned, ask him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43753	Thank you very much. Of course, you didn't answer my question, I didn't expect anything else. When you are so in pain LNG terminal theme then I will remind the public and Croatian citizens that thanks to LNG terminal gas prices for households and that 80% of the household has grown from 1.4, you keep it secret. Perhaps you are so scratched by this subject because your minister sitting here personally offered me a bribe to keep quiet about all the illegalities and negativity of this project. Maybe because you don't have an answer to the question I asked you, which is because you're ordering workers who got fired to hire your HDZ mayor Požega and USKOK defendant? That was my question, and you have nothing to say to that employee. As for what has grown in your government's time, corruption has grown, Mr. Prime Minister. As for the deficit, you did not replace it with a surplus before 2020. Because you haven't recorded your health debts, that's what you're hiding. As far as your victory is concerned, 5.7. So are we going to organize every 5.7th landing as in North Korea so that we can call our beloved leader, is that what you expect? I congratulate you, congratulations again. In the campaign, however, you also advocated a safe Croatia and said that the crisis recognized leaders. And if the leader is one who is unable to provide his citizens with the vaccine, so these same citizens must go, behold, wonders, into Serbia to be vaccinated. Where are the leaders now, and where is Croatia now securely respected Prime Minister Plenkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43754	Let's go to the last question, counterpart Arsen Bauk asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43755	According to the old people’s proverb, “salt comes at the end. ” And with us on Brač, and probably Hvar could be seen in a pot of coffee and divination. What do I see when I look in the trash? In the vaccination of citizens, we are the worst in the EU, and our citizens must go across the border to Serbia. Epidemiological measures are being carried out selectively, so the wider family must not be gathered at the wedding, but that is why this family can gather at the funeral. A year after the earthquake, no single house was restored in Zagreb, and people live in Banija without electricity and water after 3 months, the prime minister prevents changes in the judiciary in which convicts become prosecutors and judges become suspects. Having replaced half of the ministers in the previous government, it has already been slowly and forgotten, 5.7 has been annulled, according to the Prime Minister. But it's not all that black. By the perception of corruption, we grew, and at the same time we did not flower to the media company, the news censored Viktor Ivancic after 12 years of cooperation, because you, the president, were exposed, imagine, satirical text. The N1 is slowly lost in the mere media-business-political reality due to the superficiality of government members and the imprecise writing of the law, the Court of Justice must increasingly act as Parliament's upper home and fix what the government is wrong, and then we have a formed majority and opposition. And the High Constitutional Court must, for your sake, change the practice so that it no longer delivers judgments or confirms the decisions of the Commission for the conflict of interest under Article. 5. The critical voices, even if it is the President of the Republic, are trying to silence themselves with the Syntagma of the famous author, locate, identify, recall, and what you see, Prime Minister, when you look at the deposit, and how it goes with the recall of that beauty from Pantovic, completes the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43756	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43757	Dear Representative Bauk, I don't think even looking at the pot in Turkish coffee can help you, no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, you're going to fail tomorrow. There won't be any pay. There won't be electricity, there won't be gas. There's nothing. It's the atmosphere you want to create, that's what you're doing, that's your whole motive, your whole desire, this whole united opposition where we've had three MPs here today with an anti-Serbian hysteria agenda. You kept your mouth shut, as you kept quiet the other day against the SDSS leader in Croatia, and you kept your mouth shut. Pamphlet you shut up. Even as a judge you didn't play that, come on, foul in the attack, so don't. It's not okay, shut up. Shut up. Nothing. Hope. You're listening, I told you. Couriers and watermen, that's what you've turned into, and you know very well that's how it is. And you're not comfortable in that position, but you are. And that is why the difference between the two of us who are responsible for this crisis in Croatia is that there is no explosion of unemployment that you have been calling for. There isn't. That in Croatia, which is probably dictatorial, as your political secretary suggests, behold, miracles, dictatorships in power, and there is no curfew. There isn't. Well, I guess the dictator would put the police on the road first. Right? Wouldn't you? Well, of course he wouldn't if he didn't have a dictator. Of course not, so you heard earlier when I was responding to your president who had to run a quick presses because no one heard what he said on the current watch, that we ordered 8.7 million doses of vaccines. And that people will split. That it would split. And our government or any other government can't be responsible for a problem that a mega pharmaceutical global company has with its vaccine, its production capacity, its distribution chain or ultimately, its reputation right now. This cannot be the responsibility of the Croatian government and did not, knew or not know, what my new fan and stander Tomaševic would say. He can't because there are other countries that are also in this situation. So, Agent Bauk, it's very important, if someone, and I'm going to finish there, I think it's important that it doesn't fall off the horizon and the radar, that if someone is going to be the Supreme Court president, then it's a representative of the Bauk and the hydrogen of capital, the supreme, the unprecedented reform of the judiciary, the minimum that is expected. A minimum of respect for the law, if there's nothing else, then at least respect the law, not pretend that there's no law. You're still laughing, it's a minimum, it's a prerequisite for every reform. If the law is respected, then okay. But this isn't a joke and fun if you can do it one more time, it's not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43758	Thank you. Here's an indication. Uh-huh, colleague Bencic, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43759	Injury of the Rules of Procedure 238, therefore on several occasions, continuously almost every response the prime minister insults lawmakers. In particular, my colleague Tomašević, among other things, calls himself a racker, so someone who is stalking him, and that person who is at the helm, how you have praised the organization, to reach out to criminal organizations, according to the Croatian court's judgments, and the only thing he's talking about is I will return it... Filipovic because it's [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess the only fit that's enough... [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic.]] that he can boast of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43760	Comrade Bencic, you've broken the Rules of Procedure again and you're getting another warning. ... That's your second. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But look, someone who declares himself a reformer, who insists that rules, laws, etc. be respected continuously violates it. So you're showing a tendency to something that you're talking negative about, and look at yourself in the mirror, you might discover some hidden talents and intentions that you have. Here you go, another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43761	So, according to the Rules of Procedure, you are not obliged to comment on me either my views or my appearance or my mirror, but you are obliged to explain whether you accept the breach of the Rules of Procedure and if you do not accept it, explain it in a business language. You are not here to teach us lessons but to answer our business legitimate request with a yes or no rational explanation. You're not on the payroll, you're acting like you're on the payroll. [[Intruder: colleagues Bencic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43762	Comrade Bencic, please sit down. So you deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure and seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure so that you can replicate. It's clear to everyone, even to the smallest child, so that's why I answer you in this way, as you abuse your position, when it happens at that moment I have to answer to explain why I'm doing something because it's just cold to say that or not it's not enough because this is what people are looking at and I want them to know what your intentions are behind what you're doing. And your intentions are to use an HS institute called the Injury of Rules of Procedure to replicate and repeat again and again your political views that are very often and offensive, but then ask me to warn the other when speaking in a similar way as you do. So if you want to be credible then what you ask others to apply to yourself, then I won't answer you... No, I did not warn you one time or any of you who spoke today. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I only warned you when you violated the Rules of Procedure either by leaving time or by asking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate, but in a word, I did not give any notices. Check it out, from day one, until now, but of course it's not in your best interest, but try to create an image and perception to do something that you're actually doing. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43763	I thank Mr. President that you and your colleagues Bencic have given me time to consider whether I am satisfied with the government's response. Basically, I'm partially satisfied, so he didn't basically deny any of my initial settings that I said, he didn't deny any of this about the vaccine, or this about Bania, or that he was replaced by half of the ministers, or the perception of corruption, or censorship in the media, or this with N1. So he looked at each other's deposits, at each other's perspectives. But the fact is also that in this story that you mentioned, which is with the Supreme Court, that is, your controversy with the President of the Republic that citizens still trust him more than you do, and you will have to practice this more well to reach the citizens' trust in that sense. Because we've been listening here to Mr. Rasdic and President Jandrokovic whose size is higher, of course, considering the number of votes they won in the elections, so it can be compared to yours and from the president, his slightly larger number of votes, one million and something like 600,000. So the criteria that apply to you when applied are not exactly, are not exactly this, are not good for you anyway. As for the transformation of HDZ, you would then be one great transformer. The transformer normally consists of a magnetic core, primary and secondary insulating load. The HDZ magnetic core is not going to change, you will not be able to change it, it is always more or less equal, and for some time you can play this isolation because HDZ has always worked with sustainable thieving and sustainable Ustasha or to be a little more politically correct of sustainable nationalism and sustainable clientism, so now you choose which one you prefer. And when they balance it When that balance of this [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Then what happened in 2012. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43764	Injury of my colleague Bačić's Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43765	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. 238. Rules of Procedure. In fact, it is not enough for him to insult the Prime Minister but also offends all HDZ members by calling them what he just called them. And I see that he is very closely following the polls of the public change survey in Croatia. Well, as he lists these news headlines, I would visit him if he had twice a month to read the same headlines in which HDZ is 32% and those at 16%... So much for the citizens of Croatia thinking about us and about them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43766	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. Here's a colleague of Tomašević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43767	So a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. Since speakers don't stick to the subject, primarily the Prime Minister, what I'd like to discuss, it's okay for me if I ask the Prime Minister a question, he answers me, so I answer him. However, when three MPs after me ask the prime minister a question, and he still answers me, it means three MPs after me, counterpart Puljak, counterpart Ahmetovic and counterpart Bauku, and then I, if I take the injury of the Rules of Procedure to answer him then I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] So, what kind of practice is that? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Well, then we're not in an equal position then. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43768	Comrade Tomašević, time is up. So, the Prime Minister didn't answer to you, but the authorities mentioned you. What would you like more? [[Clip incursion: Three times]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43769	Then I can get him mentioned, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43770	Well, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43771	Every time he gets me, I get him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43772	Wait a minute, so you mentioned the prime minister and HDZ so many times and none of you got a warning. So I don't understand your logic, I don't understand how incriminating you are to attack, criticize, diphimate, and then when it happens to you, you cry the same way. I really don't understand it. Just agree, if you want to have a nice civilised conversation, you can talk about it, but if you open the debate this way, then normally you'll get the same thing on the other side. I don't understand your logic. Maybe that's what makes us different. Here you go... So you ask me, I'm obliged to answer and state my position, which I should, so I'm not a robot. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43773	Mr. President, I don't have any other business opportunities but to tell my opposition colleagues who, whoever the Prime Minister mentions in the next topic, will get coffee from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43774	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43775	I'll have three coffees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43776	I didn't realize what was wrong with the Rules of Procedure, but good. We've come to the end of the current morning, so we'll now move to free speech or to deliver a position, in two minutes, please let whoever wants to stay in the assembly stay who wants to go out and start with a free speech. [[This is a miracle for you to buy.]] There'll be a break after him until 3:00 a.m. when we start on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43777	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take our seats and we'll go to the first point of today's day, which is 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 128. – Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia Proposes the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14:12 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and the Sanjin Rukavin administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43778	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs allow me to present, before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections which regulates the issue of the ban on running in local elections and the question of the termination of the term of office of members of the representative body, i.e. the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputy. The legislative proposal strengthens the conditions under which voters and political parties are allowed to run for a member of the representative body as well as for the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputy. By adopting these provisions, the voters and the political parties shall not be allowed to be a member of the representative body of the unit, nor for the municipal chief, mayor and mayor and their deputy to run for the persons convicted by a powerful verdict for a criminal offence for a period of at least 6 months, or shall the sentence be replaced by work for a general good or probationary sentence. This law does not single out individual offences as taxed at present, but applies to the general approach under which a ban on running is applicable for any criminal offence for which the perpetrators have been sentenced to prison for at least six months, or thus the sentence has been replaced by work for the common good or a provisional sentence applied to it. The ban on running is extended to perpetrators of all criminal offences, whether prescribed by the 1997 criminal law, or the 2011 Criminal Law, was prescribed by some other special law, such as the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions, the Law on Commercial Society, etc. The purpose of that restriction is to protect the rule of law, the legal order and the public morals as it prevents political decision-making by perpetrators of criminal offences who have been punished for committing acts in a manner prescribed by law. The establishment of stricter conditions for the exercise of passive voting rights is in line with the views of the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of which countries are free to impose stricter conditions for the exercise of passive voting rights than for the exercise of an active voting law. This proposal also addresses the question of the termination of the term of office as a member of the representative body in such a way as to condemn him to a criminal offence for a period of at least six months, or replace the sentence with work for a general good or a conditional sentence on the day of power of judgment. For the purposes of the comparison, the current provision reads: "If by a final judgment, he is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for more than six months to the power of judgment." When we speak of the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors and their deputies, he would appear if he was convicted of a criminal offence or replaced by the sentence for a general good or probation on the day of power of judgment. An important provision shall be prescribed if, by means of a judicial order, he is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment for more than one month on the day of the power of judgment. Such amendments shall remove any ambiguities related to the termination of the term of office. When it comes to the termination of the term of office due to the check-out of residence, we propose clearer, more specifically, provisions in such a way that it is now stated: If a residence is checked out from the unit area on the day of residence, not on the day of termination of residence as prescribed by the current law. Thus, the provisions are in line with the provisions of the Housing Act and thus removes the ambiguity observed in the implementation. In the remaining part of the provision, they shall be in line with the regulation of the last amendment to the December 2020 law by harmonising the provisions relating to the duties of the deputy municipal chief elected together with him with the fact that the duties of deputies remain and in municipalities that have more than 10,000 inhabitants. It is added that the provision of a law relating to the deputy mayor elected together with the mayor also applies to the deputy municipal chief elected together with the municipal chief aligns the provision relating to the making of a declaration of the necessary duration of residence which has been deleted by the amendments of December 2020. A declaration of the duration of the candidate's residence in the unit area shall be deleted in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Appreciated representatives and MPs, the adoption of this law will make significant steps to improve the management of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Persons who have been legally convicted of committing a criminal offence and have thus sinned on the legal order of the Republic of Croatia will not be able to run in the next local elections. Following the above, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43779	Thank you very much. Please stay because we have a whole series of replicas. The first replica is the respected MPs Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43780	Mr. Rukavin, this addition to the law is as meaningful as your judiciary. I have introduced you and Mr Malenica as Minister of Justice to how the laws in Croatia apply. And they apply in a way that courts knowingly violate the law, that the Court of Justice in Sibenik accepts the lawsuits without at all establishing a zero point, which is the legitimacy of the prosecutor, all with the aim of agreeing to the interest agencies, i.e. Hiding official numbers so they can rob a six-member family whose father is a Croatian defender. And you in the ministry know that the court is committing a criminal offence, that you are violating the EU Treaty and the Data Protection Regulation and you are doing nothing. And yet you stand in defense of it, and I tell you, and I ask you, are you aware that every injustice comes to an end? And the injustices of the Croatian judiciary will soon be studied at renowned universities because they are so arrogant, bold and open that this phenomenon will need scientific examination And here I want to add that this is exactly what the justice system needs right now to be an arbiter who can't run and who can't run. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43781	The answer of a respected secretary of state, please, please, you've exceeded your time, you've exceeded your time, don't do that, I beg you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43782	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kristo, you have sent written correspondence to the Ministry of Justice and Administration on several occasions, and we have each shown ourselves to you in the shortest time on your enquiries. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43783	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43784	Dear Secretary of State, these are beautiful but unfortunately cosmetic changes. I have a quick question for you. How much is Milorad Pupovac and SDSS worth in the Croatian Parliament? Are those valuable victims of the Croatian people, victims of the Croatian people in Vukovar, because by accepting the amendments 4 months ago, the SDSS which today Article 107 and Article 108 of this Law gave double voting rights to members of national minorities. Isn't one Vojislav Stanimirovic in the town of Vukovar to be voted twice in the regular and additional elections on 16 May, and one Marijan Zivkovic's father 2 died a Croatian defender once. Is this in accordance with the Constitution, is this in line with all other parameters of Croatian people's equality with members of national minorities?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43785	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43786	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I would disagree with you. As you yourself have stated, you have a general electoral right and, in particular, the right to vote by national minorities, as well as in those municipalities and cities where the Croatian people as a national minority are entitled to an additional vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43787	The next replica is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43788	Thank you very much. Respected state secretaries in the public consultation of the Advocates for Gender Equality point to the issue of breaking legislation which regulates the problem of domestic violence, stating that it is inappropriate for political authorities at local level to act as representative executives of the political authorities to act at the local level by rectivists or multiple perpetrators of crimes related to domestic violence. It also proposed to include an appropriate legislative solution that would prevent such a type of offender from running for those functions in the presidential executive bodies of the local political authority. What's your attitude on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43789	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43790	Thank you very much. In the interest of the applicant, respected MPs were more serious forms of criminal offences that deserve stricter punishment and where the task of punishment meant that they were more than 6 months, as a rule, of fines up to 6 months. Here in that sense I want to answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43791	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43792	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Rukavina, we will soon find out why these amendments and amendments to the law are going to happen, so we'll probably tie up this law with some name or name, so it'll be called lex somehow, when you've instructed, when I saw that this law is on the agenda by emergency procedure, I thought someone understood that the epidemiological situation in Croatia and made some decisions, let's say that the number of signatures for local elections is reduced, but it's not about that, but it's about something else. Which was a key moment, so twice you changed the law in 2020, the last change was in December and now it's a little more than a month before the May 16th local elections, which was a crucial moment why this law has to be changed because if it doesn't change it won't be possible to hold local elections or, obviously, it will be possible to run, and I am announcing the amendment where you are now. And we discussed that, and it would be an opportunity for me to say something about the amendment in an individual debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43793	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43794	Thank you very much. Certainly, the protection of the rule of law, legal order and public morality was of certain interest to the applicant. And we certainly think of this as further strengthening the poor perception of voters, citizens' trust, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43795	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43796	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Rukavina, it is very important to actually apostrophe that we want to separate the grain from the weeds and restore the voter's trust in all officials from local to state level. Today we are talking about a local variety where, often because of certain examples, all beautiful very ugly labels. So I think these amendments to the law are exactly what we can do, restore the voter's trust. What I am interested in is whether these amendments to the law in any way change electoral rules or electoral procedures and because of course it would not be in accordance with what we have already prescribed and you yourself have said that these positions that are laid down in the law are in accordance with the views of the European Court of Human Rights, and then I assume that they are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43797	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43798	Thank you very much, dear representative Petyr. These rules are foreclosures. We know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will announce the conduct of local and regional elections, and if this law is passed in this Croatian Parliament prior to the adoption of the vote of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely not violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43799	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43800	Dear Secretary of State, the Club of Representatives on whose behalf I will speak will support these amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. Just tell me, do you think these amendments are in line with the fact that they happen within a very short period of time until the election is called are they in accordance with the Venice Convention?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43801	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43802	Thank you very much. The Constitutional Court has just shown itself to that part and they are absolutely in harmony.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43803	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43804	Thank you. Secretary of State, I pledge that all those who act in public duty to be the same to all of them... The rules. [[You don't understand.]] And if a person is tried for abuse of official office and authority then it cannot happen to avoid the purpose of passing this law and to be a settlement or a verdict for 5 months, because it has thus avoided the very purpose of passing this law. So it can't happen that if you're the mayor of one city where the president of the State Attorney's Council comes from, that unfortunate... It means that you can get five months and thus avoid it or if you act as mayor, mayor, don't let God let someone close to you in that facility be worth it to all other institutions both for the judges and for the state's attorneys. [[You don't understand.]] It means everything in public space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43805	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43806	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Uncle, I absolutely agree with you. We've just been through the Penal Code defining all the crimes and this is exactly the law that includes all the crimes. So as for both members of the representative body and the executive part of the municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors and their deputies, there is no selection because we know that the last law was only one set of those crimes, and now it includes absolutely everything that is stated and punishable in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43807	Replica's esteemed representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43808	Respected, regardless of the content of the amendments themselves and the addition of the law, whether or not I agree with the content, it is certainly not good that the amendments to the law take place only a month before the local elections. It is not good for democracy and, of course, public opinion can always appear that this may be done because of a specific case and it would be really good if at least a year before the elections themselves changed some of the things related to the elections themselves. As far as local self-government in Croatia is concerned, we know that we have 556 cities and municipalities. I'm talking about smaller municipalities here. As early as 20 years ago, 1.3 million people lived in municipalities. Given the eviction, mortality is now in the new list of whether we will have more than a million inhabitants in the area of the municipalities. A million inhabitants when we divide into over 400 municipalities, we reach less than 2,000 and 500 inhabitants per municipality. It's hard to find people to run for office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43809	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43810	So here I must again conclude that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet called the elections and that until that moment this Croatian Parliament should adopt this proposed law that absolutely everything is in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43811	The next replica is the respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43812	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, this bill of law that lies ahead of us will regulate the selection of the head of local and regional administrations. So please tell me, what is your personal opinion of the fact that persons who are unable to report to a recruitment contest under the Law on Local Servants and corporals in local and regional self-government may simultaneously apply as candidates for leading posts in the same administrations or fail to comply with the legal requirements because criminal proceedings may be conducted against them even though they are not legally convicted cannot be employed, but may be the bosses of those employees. Is this how we send a good message to our citizens and do we really restore confidence in politics and politicians? So you can't be a janitor in a community because you have a criminal trial, but you can be a municipal chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43813	Thank you. Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43814	I think the distinguished MPs that the Law on Local Officials and Landlords has absolutely nothing to do with this law. We're just strengthening this law by saying all the punishable acts that are punishable. It will have to mean that all those who want to run either in the representative body, or for the mayors, mayors and mayors and deputies will no longer be able to run. So this is an additional advance in strengthening everything you've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43815	The replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43816	Dear Secretary of State, we have carefully read your arguments and suggestions and put the amendment to certain parts of the text that we are not satisfied with, or intend to improve. But the stage here, give us a taste, you didn't give us a comparative demonstration of practices in other European countries. What's the status there, how do you do it? We need to get private information, and you probably know how it is in neighbouring countries and so on about the decision of power, but also the inadequacy of what the colleague of the SDP has just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43817	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43818	Thank you very much. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, I think it is absolutely important in the Republic of Croatia who will be elected to the executive power at local and regional level, as well as members of the representative bodies. So as far as other countries are concerned, I think that we, like, you or HS, and we as a proposer can't make this move.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43819	The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43820	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I am truly sorry that the procedural rules of discussion in HS are such that today we can look more or less at this barren and sloppy legislative proposal of yours. And why is he like that? Because it lacks consideration of others, thank you, questions and problems that should be complemented in this law. These changes are not controversial. But why, for example. you have not considered the situation in which the signatures for the upcoming local elections will be collected, so introduce the possibility of electronic signature collection or some other way of facilitating the collection of signatures through the Office of State Administration. It's really sad why your frameworks of reflection on the needs of amending this law are so cramped. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43821	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43822	The promoter referred to the honourable parliamentary MPs in this section that we have stated, and I think that the resolution ministry will certainly work in the next period and time and on what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43823	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43824	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the business and political system of HS is the home working body for this law and at today's session we discussed this law. The proposer stated that the bill proposes to specify the legal provisions for the ban on running in local elections, as well as the termination of the term of office for members of representative bodies and municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors and their deputies. This extends the scope of criminal offences, and the ban on running shall be established for any offence where the perpetrators of criminal offences have been sentenced to prison for a period of at least 6 months or have been replaced by a work for a general good or a conditional conviction. Legislative provisions relating to the termination of the term of office in the event of a final judgment in which those persons are convicted of criminal offences in prison or have been replaced by the work for the general good or by a conditional conviction, and in the event of termination of the term of office for the cancellation of residence from the unit area shall be specified. The debate expressed its opinion that the law will create unequal conditions for running in local elections, and elections for representatives in HS or candidate for president of the Republic of Croatia. The opinion was expressed that despite the fact that there is a strong consensus on the adoption of this law, it should have been referred earlier to the ordinary legislative procedure, in particular in view of the legal deadline for the decision to call the elections. It is also stated that this proposal significantly changes the reason for the ban on running in local elections and the termination of the term of office of members of representative bodies, municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors and their deputies, and that, instead of the taxical catalogue of criminal offences so far, all those persons are prescribed not to run in local elections if they are convicted of a criminal offence for a period of at least 6 months, or are replaced by the work for a general good or by the condition of conviction. This is particularly problematic in the light of the provision of the Article. 30. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the pronunciation established there, which refers to the loss of acquired or prohibited acquisition of certain rights for perpetrators of serious and particularly unfair criminal offences. After the discussion, the committee unanimously voted with 11 votes to support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43825	Thank you very much. Then I open the debate now and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns will be shared by respected representatives Pavliček and Sacic. First of all, the Honorable Representative Pavliček, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43826	Dear Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here this summer last year, Minister Malenica announced a major reform of local and regional self-government, a major saving by shutting down almost all deputy mayors, by shutting down a number of parishes, by shutting down all the mayors, however, from this great reform one big nothing. First, the minister was forced to accept the amendment of his own party to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, where however, all cities of more than 10,000 residents kept one deputy mayor even though the minister himself opposed it. Afterwards, you accepted another much more dangerous amendment by the SDSS, Furia Radina and Robert Jankovics, which allows members of the national minorities to vote twice the right to vote for the same body for the city or municipal council. According to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in all cities and municipalities where a certain national minority crosses more than 15% of the population, it has the right to a proportional representation in the city or municipal council. Unless such representation is carried out in accordance with the SDSS amendment today. Article 107 108. The law on local elections is being held by additional elections that can only be run by members of national minorities and can only be voted by members of national smaller ones and thus you have brought the majority of Croatian people into an unequal position. This put the majority of the Croatian people in a position of second-class citizens. With this amendment you accepted four months ago, you sacrificed all the Croats in the hero city of Vukovar, because on 16 May this year some will be able to vote once and some twice for the City Council of Vukovar. So you sacrificed one Marijan Zivkovic, a man who lost two sons in the Homeland War, you sacrificed one Milka Pancic mother who is still searching today for her daughter who was allegedly thrown into the Danube in '91. A year. You sacrificed Croatian defenders Damir Ninčević, Mirko Brodjanac, you sacrificed Croatian defenders and campers Robert Rapan, Željko Ivančić, Nikola Bijelanović, Miroslav Skuban and thousands of other Croatian defenders who live in Vukovar today because they have the right to vote once. And one Vojislav Stanimirovic, one Srdjan Milakovic will be able to vote twice. And this is unfortunately the result of the coalition of you and the SDSS. And remember this when you get to Vukovar on 18.11. Remember when you bow there at the cemetery of Croatian defenders whom you sacrificed by this law of the Croats living in the city of Vukovar. Remember when you bow down to Mark Babic, when you bow down to the late General Blagi Zadar, remember who you sacrificed by this law. With this law, minorities will be able to be the majority of the city council and that their vote is worth double, and us Croats in the town of Vukovar only once. Neither is this in accordance with the Constitution, nor is this in harmony with so-called. positive discrimination. And I expect the Constitutional Court to annul this fraud until these local elections. I'm not asking for anything but that we all have the same starting positions and I don't mind that members of national minorities have their own representation in municipal and city councils, but they can't have the same double right to vote, and we Croats only have one. Find me a country where there is one? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43827	The next club representative, and I'm sorry my colleague Sacic left, I didn't even see him. I thought... Here you go, Your Honor. Mr. Sacic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43828	Thank you very much. I'll be right back. And we've got a little time left. So, indeed, there was an ideal opportunity to respect the state of today's current moment, in fact, which Croatia is shaking and in the great crisis has brought us, the corona crisis, and how correctly she noticed Mrs. Mrak-Taritash's respected representative, it was really ideal for you to reduce those quotas. It's not the same to collect 5,000 signatures or I don't know how many times in normal times when everything is normal, when the gatherings are, but in the time of lockdown, at a time when 10 people can't get together in place. That's, you didn't put it in the change procedure now. Think about it, too, that you still have time for a few days. Unfortunately, as advocates, we can't even put amendments on it because you haven't opened those questions. On the other hand, we absolutely support the initiative that I see and other clubs and God forbid it's more of us to lower the border, in fact, to access more restrictively the restriction of passive voting rights. There is no reason for us to worship the institution of the presumption of innocence prescribed by the Constitution but for parties in criminal proceedings it has a major and most practical capital effect in criminal proceedings. These are all echoes, these are all complementary, i.e. side effects of the Supreme Constitutional category, but no such constitutional principles can be brought to the attention of the European Court of Human Rights at the end of the day and after the ruling of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, such constitutional principles in everyday political practice to protect whom? Legally accused or unjustly convicted criminals, thieves, corrupts, terrorists, some crazy characters, Satanists who abuse sexually and otherwise sexually harass the children of paedophiles. Therefore, there is no reason for us as a legislative body in the Republic of Croatia not to lower that level. That's what I think would be good, I'm talking about it a little bit now. But on a cultural level, I'll give you an amendment. God forbid you accept it because it is justified, it is based on our legal practice and constitutional and legal and European. There is no reason why we would be slaves if someone had four inadequacies, four injures, so what else does a Croatian need to be a citizen in that county or town to say there is a thief in front of him? Okay. I agree. In two or three percent of all judgments, there are liberating ones, but why would we take that risk to suffer obviously things that we should not suffer? Why don't we clean, legally clean people go amongst us the best, the most sacred, the smartest, the most capable in the lead, not to put up with people with five, six, ten powerful indictments. In fact, and infirm. And then we'll say everyone's innocent until proven otherwise. No, that principle is abuse. If you see a thief or a murderer killing a man in front of you with your own eyes, it's not innocent to you. That principle applies in this case only to the court, the state's attorney, the defendant, the defendant. But for me, as a man who will need to be rounded up on the list of county, city, municipality or I don't know the mayor, his deputy, the mayor for me is the killer. It's common sense... The solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we follow that path. We'll be on our way, we'll clear the situation, we'll restore trust, and as you said correctly, increase the number of people who will go to elections because probably the system in this way we'll say there's a swamp further, the swamp still isn't dried up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43829	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43830	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear state secretaries with co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs are only a little more than a month ahead of us local elections, and they are certainly the choices that cause the most interest because they are of the greatest direct influence on every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, each of us is interested in who in his municipality, city or county will be the mayor, mayor, mayor, deputy or in the case of female persons, each of them will, therefore, decide at the level of the nearest citizens on issues that directly concern them and relate to the quality of everyday life. What we are always interested in is how the people say what kind of voice follows potential candidates or candidates. And what has always caused the public's revolt is the fact that the conviction for domestic violence so far has not been an obstacle to candidacy or the consequences of condemnation for the end of the term of office. These and similar examples of amendments and additions make it necessary. It is essential that those for whom, after giving the verdict, no longer have a theoretical chance to become community leaders at either local or regional level. These amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections come before the local elections themselves, some would say 5 to 12, but I still believe that they are necessary and we have heard from the Honorable State Secretary that no election rules or election procedures are changed for the conduct of these elections. So we don't get into the recommendations of the Venice Commission. So far, there has been a room of maneuvers used by individuals, and not only those media-exposed cases, and regardless of the crimes committed, without any shame and shame, they continued to work on their duties. This, unfortunately, allowed them to currently apply this unscheduled law, which he prescribed only so that they could not be legally convicted, including a suspended sentence of at least 6 months for ten counts of criminal offences. But there was no crime of domestic violence or sexual harassment here, as I said. And there was no word about the obligation to step down because of the judgment of power. It is therefore commendable and good that in some ways it is no longer bid what is considered to be more serious or easier criminal acts. What, however, has been decided on a variant not to extend the list of criminal offences but to be all the crimes that apply to the general or wider and clearer approach. If that wasn't the case, we would be very much discussing today why a piece is or is not on the list of these, as far as this bill is concerned. Such a new regulation will prohibit running for any criminal offence when the perpetrators of criminal offences are sentenced to a prison sentence of at least 6 months conditional or unconditionally. No less important change is the fact that a judicial verdict automatically ends the mandate of local or regional officials, so it will not be able to do so popularly as it says. This treatment of convicted officials may at least make it easier for a moment for abused persons because they will not, as so far, be sent a message that is wrong that any violent behavior in our society is acceptable. The current legislation sent this very wrong message because they are in a court of law and the state allows a continuation of their duties. We are aware that there have been situations in which a person convicted by the court of law for sexual abuse or for the violent treatment of a woman or child continues to lead the local community by example. And that's only because he still has his mandate. Now, these are exactly the kind of situations that are inadmissible, and these exactly are the situations that this legal proposal is going to be inadmissible. Although most of these changes and additions are closely linked to the criminal law area, the question is where to place malfeasances with applications and check-outs of local and regional officials. It is therefore good that the termination of the term of office of a member of the representative body, or of the mayor, is prescribed because of the check-out of his unit's residence. But we're only talking about residence here, so we're simply asking a question that's, say, impregnable in practice, so I'd like to hear your opinion, dear secretary of state. For example, a member of a municipal council from the east where I come from, seasonally employed in Split because of the use of all labour rights, he reported his residence neatly in one of the cities mentioned, and because of his work assignments he does not come to his municipality so often, perhaps only a few weekends, and when the season is in full swing then neither then nor then. As a result, it does not come to municipal council meetings, which raises the question of whether it is being misused, more specifically if it bypasses legal provisions. Not to mention that someone might say that he no longer feels the consequences of the body’s decision as a member and that he is taking the place of another resident of that congregation that might be a councilman. Due to the irrefutable importance of amending and supplementing more precisely the legal but any other security arising from them, the SDSS Representatives' Club will support this legislative proposal. And I'm just going to give a little more reference to the statement, to the position expressed by the esteemed colleague Pavlikek when he spoke of the double right to vote. The additional elections are for those who do not know the alternative and will be conducted only if the guaranteed seats are not filled with the election mandates of members of the national minorities, and I therefore strongly recommend that his party put a very high position on a Serb community member or member if he finds one in the town of Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43831	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Peja Grbin, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43832	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Representatives' Club will support this bill. Why? Because we think this solution is better than the existing one, and better than the existing one for several reasons. One of them is because so far we have had a bizarre situation that the reasons for the end of the term of office and the reasons for the ban on running were different and it could have happened that someone could remain mayor or mayor, but when his term of office is up, he can't run. For bizarreness to be greater, I pointed it out to the Constitutional Court and I asked it to assess whether it was okay, but the Constitutional Court said that such bizarreness is normal and allowed in Croatia. And that's why I'm glad we're correcting it, and that's why we're going to support this bill. But just because we support this bill doesn't mean that this law can't, and I'm going to go a few steps further and say it has to be better. For starters, I will point out something that is absolutely unacceptable to us and ask you to adopt or if you will not adopt the amendment that our club will refer to, then, that the Government directs its own, and that is the solution in Articles 4 and 5 where the term of office is talked about if the mayor, mayor, mayor or councilors register their residence from the unit area. As it is written, this means only and exclusively if the checkout of the residence is made by itself, however, the Law on residence and residence clearly states that a person's residence may be checked out by official duty, which is done by the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. And if such a decision becomes final and the executive person no longer has a residence. And that's when a person abuses his right. And now beware of the bizarre situation, if someone acts according to the law and logs out his own residence will be left without a mandate, and if someone does not act by law and the authorities of the Republic of Croatia shall, according to his official duty, check out his residence, he remains mayor, mayor, mayor or councilman. Please, please, we need to correct this before the law is passed. Thus, such a solution simply cannot survive because those who violate the law are put in a more favourable position than those who obey the law. In the rule of law, it's not acceptable. But let's go back to what I have to point out as, like, a grudge. And that's where I have to refer to my colleague, Jeckov, who spoke before me. A colleague said she could not bid on what is a serious crime or serious crime, however, the constitution of the Republic of Croatia has asked us to do so. In Article 30, the following The constitution is to restrict the exercise of service or certain civil rights, and this is to restrict civil rights legitimately, but it is to restrict civil rights that it can but in the case of serious and particularly unfair crimes. So, as a legislator, we are asked to evaluate what is serious and especially unfair criminal acts. I will repeat once again, we will support this solution is better than the previous one, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia must think very carefully whether such a solution will withstand a test of proportionality in the Constitutional Court, and I will show you on one example. And that is to make it perfectly clear to everyone the plastic crime in Article 227. The criminal law of causing a car accident and that item 2 of the privileged form of the offence when it is caused by the disaster. Dear colleagues and colleagues, each of us or at least most of us drives, often accidentally driving, really unwittingly create an operation that is not legal, is not in accordance with the rules of how to drive, and it happens. In most cases, if the police catch us for it, we pay the fine, and that's it, but sometimes you pay attention now, it's not necessarily related to the will, it's not necessarily related to the action due to the game of the case, such a violation resulting in someone's physical injury. If this bodily injury is severe, and for example, just to show you the fracture of the nasal bone with a shift is a serious bodily injury you end up in the area of criminal law. And one of the more frequent punishments for this crime when it's caused from nowhere, so without intent, without alcohol, without the will of the perpetrator simply because you've made a mistake in driving, one of the more frequent penalties is exactly 6 months conditional on 2 years, it's said regularly, and people accept it. And you're going to put someone in the same basket who caused a car accident out of trouble, so not out of intent, by accident, because it happened to him, I don't justify it, but I can understand as much as anyone who's sitting behind a wheel because we all risk such a car accident you'll put such a person in the same basket with the perpetrators of war crimes and perpetrators of serious crimes against official duty. And then watch out, we have a case that some officials are convicted of crimes against official duty and that they've been sentenced for five months, conditionally for two years, and they'll be able to run. Under their official duties, they committed a crime, they can, and someone who caused a traffic crime cannot. And that's why the Usinator asked us to assess what was serious and especially unhonorable crimes were. So, I appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider this, I know there's no time, there's no time, not because there's a game of cases that we've been brought into Zeitnot, but because this law isn't sent to the procedure before. And he may not have just been referred to the procedure for the provision of an article. 4th and 5th, then the term of office would end early and then already. But okay, let's let it go. We're now being brought into zaitnost we can't seriously discuss this, we if we want this to come into effect we have to adopt this on Friday, which means that the government tomorrow at the session if it wants to correct and avoid this falling in the Constitutional Court has to react. Will he or won't he? He's all over the government, he's all over the government. And I'm going to stop there for a moment with these amendments and additions, and I'm going to take advantage of the possibility that there's a united debate and that in the first reading, we can also talk about general issues that are governed by these laws, so I'm going to point out something that is not in the law, in my opinion it should be, but because we're in an emergency procedure, we can't even put that in amendment. And these are issues concerning the conduct of elections in times of crisis, the respected colleagues and colleagues in this law do not. We've been listening to HZZ's epidemiological recommendations on how to collect signatures, but we haven't heard anything yet about how to conduct the election. We have proposed one thing, to extend the vote to two days, many European countries have just done it to reduce the pressure on polling stations, to reduce the crowds that may potentially arise in these often small areas. It was not accepted, nor were the proposals of other colleagues who applied in the way of collecting the signatures, it is not here. But something can be, and that's your clear answer, I hope, and you can take that opportunity and talk right after me, whether there's a possibility of a delay in the election, whether it's something that's being considered or just something that's been released in public. I know the Prime Minister talked about it, but from the moment the president spoke, so to this day some figures have, unfortunately, changed, and those respected colleagues and colleagues upstairs. To sum up, this bill is better than the state we have now, and that's a fact, it's better, but it's not good enough. We will support it precisely because of what is better, but let's all fix it together and then as soon as we fix it, start changing each other's laws, and that's the Law on election of MPs in HS. Is respected colleagues and colleagues, is it logical that someone because the provisions on the ban on running for HS units of local self-government differ, is it logical that someone can be a representative in HS and must not be, must not be a councilman in the smallest municipalities in the Republic of Croatia? I don't. The criteria should be either equal, which is right or stricter for the Assembly than for the bodies of the units of local self-government or equal or stricter for the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43833	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Gary Cappelli, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43834	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections with the Final Proposal of the Law is before us and we know very well that the regular local elections to be held on 16 May, but regardless of the fact that we already had two amendments and additions to this law last year, are just the upcoming elections of opportunity for the law to be broken again in certain but equally important segments. As we have heard from the legislators of this law, what we are primarily seeking to achieve by adopting this law at the moment before the launch of regular local elections is to disable ourselves, we can tell those who have sinned against justice in the legal order, which also includes violent conduct in the family or against vulnerable groups such as children and women, crimes against the harm of children, rape, corruption, etc., that they participate in the behaviour of public authorities and decision-making of all relevant issues at local level. So once again, I repeat, to disable and ban. I believe that colleagues are wondering why this last moment with these major changes and additions was waiting, but we believe that every moment is good for the quality of the laws that will have a significant impact on the best quality choice of local community leaders both in the executive and representative authorities, as well as on the population that should be trusted in people who act daily in the conduct of these duties and the conduct of local policies. Such an extension of criminal offences, i.e. tightening the conditions that constitute an obstacle to running for local elections, as well as the adoption of provisions that will more precisely regulate the termination of the term of office because of the checkout of residence from the local unit area in which a councilor, mayor, mayor or mayor is equally important message of a new bill of law and public morality is the return of trust to the public and citizens in the conduct of these duties. So far, for running in the local elections, a judicial decision, including a conditional sentence, has been imposed on a prison sentence of at least 6 months, precisely set out in the Law on Local Elections, requiring a judicial sentence of a period of longer than one month for the termination of the term of office. In addition, the rightful verdict for domestic violence under the current law is not an obstacle to candidacy, so it is good to change that exactly. Under the proposed amendments to the law, it will prevent all those who are legally convicted of any criminal offence, not for any criminal offence, as it is now prescribed, and have been sentenced to a criminal offence for at least 6 months, or are thus replaced by a sentence for general good or a conditional sentence applied to it. The proposed suspension of the term of office shall, therefore, relate to the sentence of imprisonment or cases where they are thus replaced by a sentence for the sake of general good or a conditional sentence is applied to the same. Moreover, this new Proposal for a Law on Local Elections is adapted to the latest amendments of the Penal Code, so that, with obstacles to running, there is also a conviction for domestic violence and violent behaviour. Just because this new bill includes crimes against family, women and children, which are specified by the amendments to the 2019 Criminal Code, which have been in force since early 2020, Croatia has contributed, among other things, to meeting international obligations and rules stemming from the Istanbul Convention, the EU Council Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, which are Croatian Parliament, ratified in April 2018, as well as other international acts defining the protection of fundamental rights. When it comes to residence, we keep it positive that this bill was defined more clearly when the term of office of the local leader ceased, i.e. as if the term of office had ceased to be the place of residence, as so far as the law had stated that the local leader had lost the term of office with the termination of his residence, which also meant that his residence would be checked out, but also left room for his own manipulation. The duty and obligation of us in HS is to review and develop laws, primarily with the aim of protecting and ensuring fundamental rights, legal order and public morality, as well as to protect and secure citizens, their trust in state and legal institutions. This new bill, therefore, clearly adds and defines the rules for candidates to select future representatives of local and regional units in such a way as to take account of the moral and ethical qualifications of future candidates, as well as their actions on those duties, and to set clearer limits for those who do not respect the legal order, fundamental human rights in the conduct of these same duties. This law therefore provides for the provisions of the applicable Law on Local Elections, which therefore refer to the ban on running in local elections. At the same time, the conditions under which political parties and voters must not run for convicted persons who are therefore sentenced to a prison sentence of at least 6 months or are thus replaced by a sentence for general good or are therefore subject to a conditional sentence. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43835	The next club of representatives will be the Mosta in the name of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43836	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. To sum up, the objective of these legislative changes is to bring back good boys and girls into politics, i.e. to avoid the bad ones running in the upcoming local elections. As a result, it is argued, we are going to make an urgent change in the urgent legal procedure, so it is expected that such a legal change is indeed something and can change in Croatian politics. Is that really how it is? Let’s see what is happening on the ground and what are those people who are already recognized as being convicted by the public and who are the people to whom such legal changes to some of their prototypes in the future could apply, have really changed these legal changes. In that sense, this speech on behalf of the club could also be called Tomasevic, Alojsija Tomasevic, release local politics, abandon local elections and run for president immediately. There you will be welcomed with open arms. What does that mean? It means that we, in terms of legal practice, have a completely unequal legislation about who is laughing and who is not allowed to run in the elections. Let's start with the Law of Elections in HS. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on the Selection of Representatives in HS in its Article. 8 states who is to be allowed to run for HS, and there is only certain acts that need to be rehabilitated, thus making it possible, simplistic, to extend access to people who want to be representatives of HS. So those worse guys and girls can't go to HS, they can't go to local politics. Furthermore, the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. It's just an article. 2 says Croatian citizens from 18 years of age can be elected for the president of the Republic of Croatia. The worst guys and girls can be presidents of the Republic of Croatia. Let's move on. Law on election of representatives from the Republic of Croatia to the EU Parliament, Art. 5, for EU members, parliament can be a elected Croatian citizen who has the right to vote. It must also be the one whose nationals, by means of a judicial decision, are not deprived of their business capacity, i.e. that the individual verdict in criminal proceedings or judgment in the civil proceedings is not deprived of the right to run. Let's make a general provision. So don't say anything about it. So if we are going to look at Croatian legislation, we do not see any broader plan and purpose that goes towards a complete amendment of the law that would explain why this is being adopted by an emergency procedure and also led to the fact that those who are morally not satisfied with the function they would like to act as public employees, are running or entering politics. In that sense, I will refer to the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017 which speaks precisely about this problem, and which is silenced in the description of this law. Therefore, the Constitutional Court makes it clear that it is necessary to seek to adopt full and balanced electoral legislation as an integrated system for the protection of human dignity in which democracy and rule of law play a key role, as the Constitutional Court recognises and warns the inconsistencies of the legislator in the listing of election rules that apply locally to those relating to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Since local elections are subject to stricter rules than in parliamentary elections. The Constitutional Court, truth, does not prevent such changes, but warns of the need to make changes in the whole of the legislation, otherwise this does not make any sense either, so it is justified to ask why these amendments are in the first place and to whom they serve. What exactly is this lex? Furthermore, if we are going to talk about the way this law is being passed, even though I am aware that it is really better than the previous one, but it does not solve the problem through which it is to be explained urgently, then we should bear in mind this very first case that I took in the paradigm case of Alojz Tomasevic. So let's see if anything really changes with these changes, could someone who got a conviction like Alojz Tomasevic be in the bid for local elections? How much does this really affect family abusers who are being punished? The law on the real consequences of conviction, criminal record and rehabilitation in its article. 19 states that the rehabilitation occurs for 3 years from the date of the maintenance, limitation or acquittal in the sentence of imprisonment up to 1 year from the date of payment of the fine, from the date of expiry of the verification in the case of a suspended sentence, from the day of execution of the work for the general good and from the day of the power of the decision to be released from the sentence. So, what would happen in the Tomasevic case? Eventually, given his verdict, and in December 2020, he was legally sentenced to the county court for domestic violence, to a unique prison sentence of 10 months, which had passed into a two-year probation and trial period, he might have missed one election cycle. So, ladies and gentlemen, so much so that the legal changes of a domestic bully will really distance you from politics and these stricter ones, which are punished under the Penal Code, and these offenders are not even taken into account. What's going on? If we see that we have a system of problems with people who were also violent, so let's also remember the abuser of the municipality of Lasinja Željka Prigorac, a former HDZ male who was illegally sentenced to 2 years in prison for rape, we notice the link between politics and power corrupting in the worst possible way. A compass is lost, often in politics, but political power does not mean human power. In this sense, we can notice that violence often becomes both family and women, and that it is driven by the political power that individuals have and what is called in the people of the Colloquial world, the previous "lex sheriff" that made it impossible for such people in the local environments to get away from their functions, so we had a paradoxical situation that the stricter rules were valid within the parties that would give up their fallen members, rather than that they were worth staying in public functions where a very question and integrity should apply. Given the above, that's two things. First, that there are no systematic amendments to the laws that would balance legislation at the level of the Republic of Croatia in respect of criminal offences which must not be committed, or any criminal offence, that cannot be committed without a person who is legally sentenced to run, whether for the Parliament, or for the European elections, or for the President of the Republic of Croatia, this law does not bring a serious change. Also, since the law must, which is justified, respect the rehabilitation system, when we talk about family abusers, who unfortunately often pass and come from the policy sector, this law can possibly lead to a single election cycle missing at best and those who have been punished at all because very often we have a situation in which there is no or possibly any conditional conviction. So, the famous art. 2 of this law that should regulate matters, and which should lead to, quote, the consequences of restoring citizens' trust in the conduct of these duties as well as the protection of the dignity of these duties themselves, this law will not be achieved. If we're going to go towards changes, we need to do it systematically and we need to do it at the previous level, so that people who don't have moral integrity at all don't run for key functions by their parties, and that's not a law that can prescribe for you, not even an internal one. This should be a question not of your political will but of understanding the political process at all. Where morals went and how to bring it back to politics is one of the questions we don't get an answer to, which is the intensity of this law. The parallel, commercial political practice teaches us that it is pointless to set it up at all because while moralization would somehow still be charged, and that is what this law seems to do, it turns out that there is really no use in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43837	The next club of MPs will be the centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43838	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. I have to admit that often when I try to point out the basic problem arising from some law, I get the impression that the entire Parliament is going to the dots, and I'm going in with my arguments in the speeds, so it's very likely this time too. When I read the reasoning of this law one sentence came into my eye in particular and attracted attention, which is that its aim is to avoid the active role of convicted persons from public life and their participation in politics, I agree, as a means of restoring citizens' trust in public officials, and I agree, as a protection of public order and the achievement of democracy, really praise the worthy goals, and I am sure that most of our citizens are bothered that convicted criminals are on election lists, and very often they are the leading candidates. So we come up with a real question, where's the legal problem? Is it in citizens that they are bothered that a convicted person can run or rather be bothered by the real possibility and the appearance of just such a person winning? Well, then it's not just the moral question of a candidate, so it's not just a matter of well-organized legal system, it's obviously part of the problem in voters. And now I'm going to go back to what the law says is his goal of these changes is to achieve democracy. So you know when we'll be able to say that we've achieved democracy and that she really lives? When every citizen and voter feels but truly disgusted, disgust towards all convicted criminals, especially those who are convicted of corrupt crimes committed in the conduct of public duties. And that's where we come up with my diametrically opposite attitude and opinions regarding this law compared to everything we heard in the assembly today. What about political parties, for example? On the one hand, we will succeed in eliminating convicted individuals from participation in public life from being able to behave at local level, but we will not take away the possibility from political parties convicted of corruption. It's a real absurd that so far no one has said a single word here. So I come back to the question, and what motivates these voters in the first place, which makes them bound to vote precisely for these corrupt and corrupt ones? Dear HDZ to speak to you, what makes voters vote for you? How can you lead the polls? By what? That you run the country well? Well, we're all less and we're getting poorer, having well-designed functional social security, so our children are dying, our children. And Roma children are our children. They're dying old and powerless, so far we haven't determined what happened in burning nursing homes. The judicial system is reformed by powerful convicted criminals, and then what is the difference between our judicial system and the fugitive of Croatian justice Zdravko Marić, Mamić pardon, but this other one too may have to be subject to criminal convictions, not just investigations that have never been conducted or we will really let the judicial system reform our corruptly condemned HDZ. These are legal issues. And what fellow Peja Grbin said, we're in deep need of this law. Nothing fundamentally different will happen to this law, whether we adopt it quickly or not. In essence, a few people may be prevented from running in these elections, so we will finally be able to give this law a lex specialis special name, but more or less we have been in the interest since we formed this country, from the beginning we have set it wrong, since the first reform of the territorial structure carried out in the early 1990s when we have so badly crushed it and made it a basis for an electoral engineering that always suits large political, very often corrupt political parties. And when I said that the right to reform anti-corruption policies was that we should start from reforming the entire electoral legislation, with such a reform to go on in time, then they heard voices of those political parties pushing themselves hard into the chest in order to eradicate corruption from political and social life, but there they did not strongly advocate these solutions, and then the reform of territorial reconstruction, when I said that this network of excessively large number of units of local and regional self-government Yes, the subject is to amend and supplement laws that are so unsustainable. [[/Intruder Reiner: My colleagues Oreshković, I ask you to stick to the topic. It is not the topic of the territorial structure of Croatia now. Please.]] And why is it without content? Because the HDZ is doing it right before the elections, obviously with the intention of eliminating a certain person's name and name from political life, while protecting and feeding the HDZ itself further. And until then, we will simply stick to the proposed changes and additions and gnaw some bone that HDZ has thrown at us, avoiding the right topics and real issues just before the new election process. I don't understand why we're acting like owls pushing our heads into the sand, and it's not sand, it's literally living mud that will one day swallow us. Yes, I can say I will support this law because it is generally not bad, but it is of no use to it in such a barren dysfunctional system that is experiencing collapse in all relevant segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43839	The next club of MPs will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulica will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. A lot's already been said, I won't say it again. We believe in the Homeland Movement that this proposal is also one shift in relation to the pre-editation of this issue, but we are convinced that this law and these changes will not solve our basic problem, and this is the degree of immorality actually in Croatian politics. I will remind you that in these upcoming local elections in Croatia, more than 500 units of local self-government will be elected to over 8,000 councilors and other mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. The problem is that we have what is really a syntagmic sin structure continues to work, so by banning some individuals, some convicted people from serious crimes that will be banned from participating in the elections, we do not actually do what makes the citizens, and that is this corrupt practice in everyday politics, and unfortunately it is often manifested at local level, not just national. We all know that, we also see a number of cases where it is actually easier to replace the American president than the mayor in Croatia. They can be excluded from the party, etc., and continue to act on their function. And that's why I think we need to think a little bit deeper about this problem because unfortunately, you and I often point out the distinction between morality and the legality of certain actions, something that is not necessarily morally possible and legal with us. From this comes this syntagma sin structure, much is carried out through competitions, through various contract conclusions, etc. In a legal way, and it's not necessarily transparent or moral. Some are more equal than others in these decisions, and that is what makes Croatian citizens feel guilty. For the first time now, I've been following a little bit more closely the process of putting together a list, for example. For this election, and I see how much it's actually a busy job because of the number of people who have to engage. If demographic trends continue, how long will it be possible to put together lists for all these constituencies in ten years? For some, it may be easy, large parties that have many hungry mouths and need to be reconciled, but for others it is a very demanding and challenging job and it is not a secret. We all know and ask again the question, is this structure in Croatia self-government, administrative units doing their job because it has less and less of us, and no one touches the number of counties, municipalities, etc. We should commend that, reduce some of the number of officials, but that's not enough. I'm not going into the work of utility companies here, and so on. Because it's not dark, I'm aware of that, but we all know in fact how to spend public money locally and actually buy part of the electoral body. And these are practices that are not necessarily moral, someone will say it's all in accordance with the law, and morally it's not, causing our people to feel bitter. And so many instead of taking part in the elections are voting and leaving Croatia, and this trend continues, and the ruling structures do not actually get too excited because their electoral body remains. Therefore, in addition to prohibiting and with the right of some to participate in the elections, it would be good to even it out for other functions. I agree with that claim that you should. The question should be reconsidered and asked again, why is it forbidden to participate in elections by electronic and correspondence, why is this persistently refused to facilitate our people, especially those outside Croatia to participate in the political life of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43841	The next club of MPs will be the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Tomasevic will speak. Here you go. Tomasevic does not have a representative, so he loses his right to speak. Next thing you know, we're actually done with the clubs, so we're going to have an individual debate. The first will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43842	... State Secretary, Croatian public. [[Specially enabled.]] Here we have had the opportunity to hear in a few wonderful steps fellows and colleagues about what is, with the mahogany of what is the lack of this proposal initiative, but also a bit of a good thing, trying to make a point that the situation still improves in relation to the situation that we are suffering now, where even to some extremes, up to the public delusion enables certain lawmakers and the legal order to consume their passive electoral right. I'm sure it's... The absolute task of us in this legislative house is to honor one in a series of excellent decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic, which is to harmonise the discrepancies, to bring the current confusion in the electoral legislation for you, you, as your colleague Selak Rasudiæ has noted excellently, the conditions for running for the President of the Republic, the coat of arms for the President.../incomprehensible/... members, candidates for parliamentary representatives and MPs, the EU Parliament, because now we have an absurd situation, God forbid we agree on many things, among other things, and about one which I will now present as my proposal, the proposal of Croatian sovereigns and we will have an absurd situation that we will have enough and solution, thank God, how we should, for one local mayor, mayor, mayor, mayor, mayor or mayor or member of the local board of the city district and some of the city, and some municipalities, and we will always have the possibility of the President of the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do you do, how? Let's take the first step. The first step is therefore we are going, and I believe that it is your duty, you have now gone to the lowest level, in some way to comply with the general morality, on local, regional, regional administration and self-government, and God forbid, in a month or before you deliver those laws that will regulate the election of the President of the Republic, the European Parliament, etc., because that is what is wrong now. I'm going to suggest, however, I'd like it to be accepted by the largest majority of parliamentary deputies and MPs because it's so logical, it's so normal, it's so moral, it's so in line with common sense, to ban the candidacy, the running at local administration and self-government for mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, their deputies, people who have legally confirmed charges, for precisely catalogically certain criminal.../incomprehensible/... not for all, severe crimes, deliberately committed, with intent, therefore, who are persecuted by the service of duty, there's nothing like that kind of thief, bully, rapist, rapist, we're a conservative society. And we know in our neighborhood, in our street, in our village, in our city who's a thief. The second question is if we're gonna prove it, that's another question. But if there is already a legally established and confirmed indictment, if we get to a wrongful verdict in the first degree, if we get to a conviction with a criminal order, a conviction, with a criminal order, so let's not close our eyes, that's a lunatic, that's a thief, that's a bully, he's breaking the legal order and he can't hide behind the constitutional principle that he's innocent. You can't be innocent when you're a thief, simply. The police turned him in, okay, we think the police are okay. There was no contradiction, so we're not taking it. We reject criminal charges, they won't, they're not criteria. An investigation has been opened, the court has already decided, the investigation closed, the court also decided, the judicial authority, but we won't take it either. All right. Get through, we'll consider it, and listen, the investigation is, what, 20% goes by, 30% doesn't go through, but if it's a powerful indictment, there are already judicial bodies, let's accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43843	Thank you very much. Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43844	Your Honor. I'm glad you touched that subject. Today we had this wonderful debate and by Mr. Grbin and our representative from Most and colleague Oreshković and what really bothers me and being slowly like this all the time, irritated me, you touched it in one part, but you didn't say it to the end. In fact, we also have a problem with those who have been in court for 10 or more years because of their corrupt activities, because they were stealing money from this country, because they were stealing money from our citizens, because they were stealing money from local self-government, they continue to have courts and who knows when they'd end up. Meanwhile, they've been through one, two, three, four election cycles, still stealing and nothing's happening to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43845	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43846	Excellent. You're on the trail of that idea of mine, that amendment of mine, the moment we accept, God forbid on Friday, that amendment, these people for five years will have a chance to deal with themselves because there will be nothing left. Neither the mayor nor the mayor, nor the law enforcement, will give you time to prove there in a conflicting procedure whether you are or not, but don't bother the local community because there must be no doubt, because there can be no doubt about a police officer. He must be as clean as a tear, he can't, if he's being prosecuted, that means criminal charges, all that, the solution to the investigation, can't be hired, can't be hired by civil servants or deputies if they're not clean, and imagine he can be a parliamentary representative if he's being held against him. Catastrophic, bad, bizarre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43847	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43848	Ladies and gentlemen. In political terminology in Germany, there is a town of friendship that says there is a friend, an enemy, a mortal enemy and a party friend, so we can talk about social injustice. There is social justice, social injustice, terrible social injustice and social justice in Croatia. In Croatia, the entire state apparatus serves a narrow circle of powerful people, and this political judicial elite no longer hides at all, and these legal provisions that Croatian citizens need to be fooled that it is about God's fight against corruption or the credibility of politics, for example. This change you have proposed is a clean manipulation because there is a government suggesting that those convicted in Croatia will not be able to deal with politics. It is an unequivocal manipulation, but another instrument in the hands of a corrupt political elite so that unwanted and dangerous political opponents can be excluded from the election race. We all know that the judiciary in Croatia does not judge by law, as the DORH does not perform its legal obligations, but criminal law serves the political social elite in their maintenance in power and robbing Croatian tax money. And in order for that deep state to have credibility, where appropriate, they shall be drawn out to individuals who are being sacrificed by the system so that this corrupt system may survive. For example, according to this law Ivo Sanader could not run, but that is why they can run both Slavko Linić and Ivan Vrdoljak, and Milorad Pupovac, and Zdrav Marić, and Andrej Plenković, and Radimir Cačić, and Ivan Jakovčić, and Slobodan Ljubic called Kikas because for all of these persons there are serious, credible and documented charges of corruption and violations of the law, but these people have no case against themselves. Ljubicica Kikas has a very long procedure, but he has received permanent incompetence from the Zagreb County Court and has been de facto released, and this allegedly medically incompetent Ljubicic is walking around the city neatly drinking coffee because the Croatian judiciary that should be so-called by law. The social regulator's behaviour is a social destroyer. The Croatian judiciary is brutally and bloodthirsty towards a common Croatian man, who, for example, Croatian courts do not question the legitimacy of the interest agencies when suing Croatian citizens and taking away their property. Croatian courts openly participate in a breach of the European Data Protection Regulation because, as we know, banks must not give their client information without its consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43849	Dear Representative Kristo, I beg you this is the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43850	Everything's in line with the subject. A sale of claims Mr. Chairman, in order for the Croatian public to understand the point, I must show what the Croatian judiciary is, in fact, when this and such a Croatian judiciary is now given to be an arbitration officer who will be able to run and who does not. [[/Intruder Reiner: Not exactly in line with the subject, I warn you to stick to the topic. Please.]] Let me finish. Well, I'm sticking to the subject. [[Intruder Reiner: But stick to the topic.]] Therefore, the data protection regulations as we know banks must not provide their client's data without its consent, and the sale of the claim is the provision of data without the client's consent. [[Don't hold on.]] This means such contracts should, in accordance with the European Regulation, be treated as legally invalid and should not be accepted by the court. It's precisely because of the dysfunctional and criminal activity of the judiciary of such a ban on running for office that is proposed here that they have no purpose whatsoever. But there's one historical truth, the moment you start to feel completely secure in your crimes, that's when your fall begins. Politics, justice and the media in Croatia so openly defend their abuses and humiliate Croatian citizens that it is only a matter of time before citizens react and deserve to send them to the castle of history because they deserve nothing else. The model by which every affair in Croatia only lasts one day looks like this. The harshest facts are silenced because the media ignore them, and the judicial authorities that would have to respond to evidence do not react because they themselves are part of the corrupt system. I personally testify that my open, documented and reasoned calling systems are simply silent. Your goal is to forget your work and simultaneously kill the hope of social justice among Croatian citizens. But you're mistaken because it's my job and my supporters' job to expose you and make our sad one ours beautiful. Croatian citizens have the right to be equal citizens of the EU and to be equal before the law, and we also have the right to those we pay to seek responsibility. It is clear from all of this that I am against amending this and already against democratic, discriminatory and anti-constitutional law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43851	The next debate will be respected MPs Marijana Puljak. Here you go. Representative Kristo, I'm asking you to put on a mask.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43852	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. According to the proposed changes ahead of us, The 13th ban on running in local elections would no longer be limited to specific criminal offences but would begin to refer to all criminal offences for which a prison sentence has been imposed for at least six months. Therefore, these amendments provide for tightening the conditions for running in local elections and conditions for ending the mandate of elected candidates. During the presentation of these amendments and in the very explanation, it was heard that these changes wanted to separate the grain from the weeds, restore citizens' confidence in politics and the legal system. So, bravo for this purpose and for that purpose, however, can these small changes actually do such a big deal, restore citizens' confidence in politics and politicians because what kind of legal system we are in today, or what kind of system we live in today, is that for candidates you have people who have just some sort of process in progress, and they are doing that at this time pandemic of the judge festival, in order to please them, so that these judges would kindly view their processes, etc., we have a legally convicted fugitive before the Croatian judiciary who now reveals corruption and crime to the public in the judiciary, etc., etc. Anyway, I welcome these legislative amendments, and we have submitted one amendment, the same one as my colleague Grbin was talking about, so in this article. 4 and 5 the part relating to the change of residence, so the change of residence, not only in the case where a person reports a change himself, but that application can also be carried out by official duty, so we have submitted it as an amendment, we hope that it will be adopted. But here we are, wondering, so after I welcome these changes, we're wondering what's been waiting so long and somehow there's a little bit of doubt, who does HDZ want to resolve in a hurry, is it, before this election? It's very likely someone amongst their ranks. The note, too, has already been heard here that these amendments should be implemented in the same way both in the elections at all other levels and for HS, the EU Parliament, for the president of the country. These amendments to the Law on Local Elections therefore introduce a ban on candidates for persons who are, among other things, legally convicted and for cases of domestic violence, which is a legislative improvement, welcomes it, we have also seen a lawyer for gender equality, but it also noted and pointed to a criminal law that regulates the problem of domestic violence and suggests that in law, perhaps some other amendment, in addition to the ban on the conduct of functions in representative and executive bodies, there is also a ban on those persons who are actually multiple perpetrators of criminal acts, which relate to domestic violence. A few more facts that relate globally to the entire election process. Perhaps not now at this time of the pandemic some things can be implemented, Croatia is one of the few countries in the world that do not require the signature of voters when going to the elections and taking over the ballot. Such a situation also allows manipulations in election places after the end of the vote in such a way as to round up the number of people who did not even come to the vote and insert a ballot, is it. The introduction of mandatory voter signature at the polling post would reduce the possibility of manipulation. The first stage of a proposal to amend the electoral process would therefore be the introduction of the mandatory voter signature at the polling post. Of course, at the time of the pandemic, you might expect some big crowds, so it's in polling stations, so it's for something to think about for the future, but the second stage, it's allowing e-voting and hybrid voting, so that using the e-Citizen system can also vote without physically coming to the polls. We had here in last week's debate on the census where we saw that it would allow self-signing, just censusing citizens, then why don't we think about it as soon as possible and introduce e-voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43853	Thank you. Thank you very much. We have one replica, respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43854	Dear colleague Puljak. Of course we're all interested in who this law is for. We'll see if we can find out by the end of the day, and surely we'll know by the start of the election who it was written for. But I'm interested in one other thing, you mentioned the lawyer for gender equality and her request to extend this way of conduct to a violation of domestic violence, however, there is a question, it opens it, whether it does it for the retreaders or for the already first offense. If we're going to go along with this, then it's not just a violation of domestic violence, it's another offense, because one is the Penal Code, and the other is a violation, a violation of provisions. So, what you think is the limit that the law needs to provide, and it makes it impossible to deal with politics and where it should be placed in the case of domestic violence and in general the relationship between offense and crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43855	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43856	Yes, therefore, here I have stated precisely that the attorney for gender equality mentions that it should, it cites precisely the multiple perpetrators of the crimes of domestic violence, so that they should actually be introduced as well as the ban on those perpetrators of the crime of domestic violence. Where's the border? So to introduce it for the first offense or for a few and how many of these violations, it is indeed, remains both on the profession and on the professional services and on us here in the Parliament to decide where to set that limit. We know these cases, here, were cited here and during the debate, that we have mayors, mayors, mayors who are convicted, whether, therefore, they have both convictions and criminal convictions for domestic violence, and still retain their functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43857	Thank you. Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43858	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Here, I want to say something about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. I believe that as politicians through this law we can get to a certain level and that's where we do what we can, and then again something doesn't depend on us, depends on some other people, on some other systems and a key word, I think that's what it's called, i.e. pronounces as a power of power, and she sets up dilemmas, whether this law achieves everything it takes, even in time for these local elections or for some other elections because we are witnessing that these powers go beyond time, and then in such a system many make what they make, run and become mayors and mayors and can do their job and it is either councilmen in the municipality or city, etc. I think that's where I say politics is not dependent, depends on some other people, and why these processes take so long to confirm whether the lower court has made a good decision or not made a good decision, changed that decision or done something that we think is just when we're taller than everyone else. So I don't think that in this election because of this law or because of these insinuations who can't really run or that we've always made a law for someone, there's going to be people who are going to run because they're going to get power in spite of everything and they're going to be able to get everything they need and they're going to run. And what other people do then, and these are citizens who choose them and choose people who have had processes behind them. We have a number of cases in the Republic of Croatia where mayors or mayors are people who have already been convicted in certain degrees and people are re-elected by these politicians, people and think they are doing well to their community. Will we then, as politicians, say that the citizens did not choose well? Well, I don't know who said it or said it, I mean, that's what I want to talk about. So we can go to some level and I support this, this is the level to which HS can say through the legislative framework all the crimes, any kind of conviction you can't legally run to, and that's fine, which depends on the individual himself. I've been myself since 2000. I'm going to the local, regional, state, and you're asking yourself whether you're the one who has to go to the polls all the time, if you've done everything right, if you've got everything right to go to the polls and how much it's worth among our citizens today, when politics has gone in a completely different direction today. We today have a flood of politicians of all kinds, regardless of knowledge, abilities and in any way about anything as a politician you represent you don't have to know anything at all. It's enough to have an I.D., an 18-year residence, and you're a politician, and we're witnessing all kinds of situations. And as a local leader, I'm witnessing all kinds of situations and you have to deal with it in some way and fight and let the citizens choose and they're the ones who decide and if they like it and that's the way they're going to choose it. And we don't need to be here making courts or judgments about that other politician because we're subjective here and we're looking for some of our own spaces and we're saying what we're saying today, who's guilty of anything even though the system or the judiciary hasn't reached it. There's our fight. But what the citizens see, they see people in front of them. We introduced as HDZ in 2009 the election directly, we had before that and the chieftainships and selections from the council etc., the system of local self-government was changing, 20 years really changed a lot. And the last changes we've reduced the number of councilmen, abolished the deputies, etc. And they'll change more. But the one that the citizens will choose thoroughly, they will choose. Now, whether the power of judgment will be in a year, it's very important or in five years it's also very important, because if in this second case everyone can do their mandate, but then I wouldn't take it as a sin, let the one who has the subject in his system think about it, and doesn't solve it for five, seven years, can and two mandates not solve this case and then the power, and the rehabilitation only starts after eight years or five years, etc., I think that part should work and that judiciary. In particular, the Supreme Court, which certainly has a number of such cases, should be able to resolve them, if it is a politician, in time. Why should politicians in the assembly do this, that's the problem as I see it, and I think it will make it possible again today and tomorrow in the election of some possibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43859	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43860	Of course, in half of HDZ, we have an ideal judiciary, but the Croatian judiciary is running away with its head regardless. Our engineers are driving taxis around Frankfurt because your judiciary just can't take it anymore. And now the same judiciary needs to be arbitrationd on who can run. Just take the latest case of Shakespeare giving instructions to the witnesses so that his godfather Calmeta can be free. I'm telling you that you have minimum courtesy for your judiciary in this House of Commons, you would forever be silent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43861	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43862	I don't have anything to answer these are ordinary insinuations of my colleague Kristo, I don't know why he's always coming towards me. I personally believe that I have shown what I know and can in my life. They have their colleagues next to them who they don't want to talk about, they always like to talk about someone else, let's just say I don't know if you and your colleague were in a club, so you don't want to talk about I don't know maybe your colleague's something. Whether he's done something wrong in life or not, but you always want to talk about someone else, it's your right and the citizens will evaluate you in the next election for what you've been saying here, what you've stood for and what you've achieved with it. I personally consider myself to be right and to do my job right. Why would I be someone else's judge? That's what you take because you don't have politics, except that during the day in the assembly or at any other opportunity you try to act as investigative authorities and judges who make final and final judgments. You're not the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43863	The next replica of the respected representative, Selak Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43864	I will go back to what you said about citizens choosing for themselves, and politics has made it possible for them and it can only affect it to some extent. Yes, the tragedy of modern Croatia is that our citizens' system goes in a way that everyone steals so they're happy if the one who steals is also the one who makes one fountain because everyone steals anyway. So let's go to the system that gave them that. So, in order for citizens at all to choose they must have a good electoral law, which is what you have disabled, so we have today in force and anti-constitutional provisions on how election units function. Secondly, how does the electoral system work? So, due to the lack of preferential votes, only party listeners who have not been elected by citizens come to those top places. No, citizens when they, let's face it, voted for HDZ think they voted for Franjo Tudjman, and they chose three of the biggest lollipops they'd won as a prize for seats on the party lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43865	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43866	I don't know why my colleagues Selak are worth some other rules to you, and for us in HDZ just some of the same rules, I don't think they can understand what you want to tell us, that you're all right in the Bridge, and that when they choose you they just chose you. Well, the Bridge was able to sit here twice in the assembly, and he had his own ministers to sit on by people who weren't elected. It may not have bothered you at the time, but those were the situations in which the Bridge acted the government did not last long, six months, but some others sat down for them. Why... challenge this legitimacy of the law and in what way would you form power if those elected on the lists could not become ministers but could only be parliamentary representatives, what kind of policies are these? So I guess those people are worth something so they can behave as executives tomorrow. You offered for that solution, except for the criticism. And it's not a good thing that you wrote to your husband today that violation of the Rules of Procedure read it...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43867	Thank you very much, time, thank you. Here you are, Mr. Selak Rasudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43868	Art. 238. Obviously, you're reading and now you're reading paper and you're always reading. He read my husband, too, but there's a fundamental difference, he reads what he writes himself, unlike all of you in HDZ. Secondly, you were talking about the competences that someone should have, so your minister of social care is Mr. Aladrovic, remind me of what his competences are in that system, and the lack of its implementation in the work we are clearly seeing now. You create an electoral law, you have not given citizens a choice to choose who will sit in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43869	Thank you very much. It was a replica, you have a warning. Mrs. Ankica Dragon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43870	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Boric. These amendments and additions to the law strengthen the conditions for running for representative executive power in local elections. Do you think these provisions will contribute to better quality candidates at municipal, urban and county levels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43871	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43872	As for the quality of the candidates I wouldn't get into it, I may be able to do it when the local elections are in its midst, I don't know in any other environment who's quality or less quality, that they'll disable someone who obviously has a rightful verdict behind him for any act criminally, will, won't be able to get the paper with which I can say in the elections. But all I'm saying is what I see as a problem in the sphere of another system that isn't just up to us here about HS or about the law that we're about to pass. And this power, in my opinion, still provides opportunities for many who have sinned against the laws to be candidates, and I think the Croatian judiciary needs to solve this as soon as possible because these cases certainly have a lot to do and allow for their kind of abuse of what we want to achieve, which is that we have people who have no bad things behind them and that they can be candidates. And then the people say who's gonna lead them or do something for them in their local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43873	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43874	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Boric. In several discussions here, the thesis could be heard that this law, or amendments to this law, is being passed for the purpose of preventing a HDZ from running in the upcoming elections. Do you think that the thesis is something that holds water, or is it still a hickey to HDZ, as it has been conducted for the past five, six years?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43875	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43876	Thank you very much. Well, I've been in this house long enough to know that many laws have been given the names of individual politicians or have been passed for the purpose of their promotion, so we had no idea, a colleague named Bauk knows the lex Komadin when we made it possible to say Komadin, the Mayor of Komadin to become Minister and to have his deputy come to his place and do his term until the end, and then in politics it was used and that's something that is possible and good. I don't have that problem. But we have laws called again by some other politicians, I won't mention them because it's always being thought that it's just for one politician. I'm looking wider, this is for a lot more politicians, a lot, a lot more. Now, if we don't care, we'll be against this. I'm up for this because I think it's good and that we all need to ask ourselves first if I'm ready for that function, if I can act on it and if I have something bad behind me to put my name in front of But history has denied us many times. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43877	Thank you. Mr. Boric, I'd just like to ask you not to rephrase to agents who have not replicated you but to others. Don't address them directly because then it's a chain reaction and then there's injuries to the Rules of Procedure and all that, and then we're wasting our time. It's Mr. Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43878	Dear fellow Boric. Little where the strictness was so trained and somehow changed the law as on local self-government, so here's the one that we passed the law where the deputies were abolished and the state audits and I don't know who didn't control everything, so the fiscal responsibility law of all the years we've witnessed since '93, practically '94. while this is the form of local self-government. We can talk about any key thing you've said here, and that behind each of us who is involved in politics in any way and then the mayor or mayor is the only court and the real court is their voters and they know what they choose and when they choose to trust and I think they're the only ones who should judge it. All of these other stories are stories for little children this way as they interpret themselves here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43879	Thank you. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43880	Thank you very much, dear colleague Klaric. So that's why I'm saying that politics has gone in a completely different direction over the past few years, so we in the House have families even, we have, even in previous councils, something like that. Now we have, I don't know, an advocate who advocates her husband becoming mayor, etc., basically politics becomes a family business obviously because what else we do because we have more of these cases isn't just one, and that's probably even more so we have both local and brother and sister, and I don't know who needs everything in that policy to deal with how to develop a particular place smaller or bigger. Why wasn't it before? I don't remember such moments in long before time meant there until 2010. Or in the 1990s. They were different filters. Today the filter is gone. It's just that this is one filter that's only going to throw out those who have some bad things behind them, but we can't solve everything else just by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43881	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43882	Article 238, I agree they were different filters and I believe you regret these times. It is obviously difficult to bear that in family relations there are equal individuals who can get a sufficient number of votes as independent representatives who have been elected by citizens to sit in this assembly unlike the half-dominated policy that has led you both to a poor electoral law at the top of the election list. And then to the council. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43883	Thank you, thank you very much, another reminder as you can conclude yourself because you've replicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43884	And no one mentioned it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43885	We're moving on, no, no, no, we're moving on, there's no answer to that, we're moving on. At the end of Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43886	No one mentions her themselves getting up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43887	Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43888	So, distinguished representative Boris, the strangest thing about your presentation is that you claimed that your voters in this regard specifically refer to HDZ voters to the quality of the candidates, so that's exactly why they support them. I dare say that's not the case. That's what I was talking about on behalf of the club. The real reason is some other relationship. Fear of losing a job, fear of existence, acquired jobs, competitions, maybe even diplomas. That Thursday, the reluctance of the Prime Minister this morning at the current hour when it was mentioned that your candidate in the city of Split had a plagiarized doctorate shows that what an honest man was ashamed of is being proud of the HDZ so there was also the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43889	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43890	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know what to say to this replica because obviously it was again the intention of someone dealing exclusively with us at HDZ or some individual who was bothering them. Probably that gentleman is actually gonna make sure I'm mayor, which is why he bothers them. What, who determines plagiarism? We saw here this one attempt to get a minister's shift just to do this plagiarism and plagiarism story in the end turned out to be nothing, and those who started it didn't find the strength to apologize to that man. It took a few days, it lasted months in public, and here in the assembly for a few days. After that, nothing happened to anyone. So this story, we'll get you a little dirty by the election, and when the election's over, if you become mayor, here we are at your place, maybe we'll ask you something and we'll talk nice to you. That's what's wrong, but you're still doing it sure you'll do well in elections as you've always done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43891	Thank you very much. You no longer have the replica Mr. Boric, thank you. Now it's Mr. Marian Pavlichek. That's right, Pavlico not Pavlico, is it Pavlico, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43892	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues of this amendment and the addition of the law are I believe in good faith made but always the question is why they are now brought almost a month before the local elections themselves by emergency procedure when we had the same law four months ago on the agenda right here in the Croatian Parliament. What makes us smarter today than four months ago? However, I am sorry that you did not correct the injustice you brought 4 months ago where you accepted the amendment of minorities and SDSS which allowed you to double vote to members of national minorities in cities and municipalities where there are more than 15% of the population and thus have to be proportionately represented in the city or municipal council by allowing so-called. The additional elections within 3 months will be voted on by only minority members and can only be run by minority members. Where in this story are we as the majority people here at our house in Vukovar? So do you ever think about how we in Vukovar feel, how we live in Vukovar? For all of you, Vukovar is in your mind, you are all full of the mouth of Vukovar, the city of heroes, and then let the hero in that town vote twice for the city council of Vukovar, and one Marijan Zivkovic, father of 2, was killed by a Croatian defender once. One Croatian defence camper once, one Srdjan Milakovic who openly said that Storm is an ethnic cleansing today is the mayor of the town of Vukovar ahead of the Serb national minority will vote twice. And his party people will be able to run twice. And by this law you change the will of the majority, the electoral will of the majority. And we most people are in an unequal position. And let's let the stories go that you all love Vukovar and that your mouth is full of Vukovar on the 18th of November, and this is the law that you sacrificed us Croats in Vukovar. Come to Vukovar 364 days a year not only 18.11., so see how you live in Vukovar. And what have you done with this law? With this law, you will banish the Croats of the city of Vukovar because in their own city they will not be able to win most of the city council in accordance with the elections because one minority will have a double right to vote. It can't be in accordance with the Constitution at all, not at all. And it is easy to pass the laws 300 km from Vukovar, which relate to the city of Vukovar. And that's unfortunately the policy of you and the SDSS. And that's a fact. But that three hands of Milorad Pupovac can cost so much that you sacrifice your own people is as unimaginable to me as a Croat living in the city of Vukovar. It is unimaginable to me, let alone the Croatian defenders in the town of Vukovar. And I don't know if you'll have the cheeks of 18.11. come to Vukovar and bow down to the victim of Vukovar. And with this law you have spat on all Croats living in the city of Vukovar because you want to get most of this law in the city council through the HDZ coalition and the SDSS post-election. That's what you want to bring down the current city government. And you're not gonna make it no matter how hard we try to change and supplement the law. I hope that the Constitutional Court will repeal Article 107 and 108 of this law, which is a direct damage to most regardless of which city or municipality and cannot comply with the Constitution. Personally, this hurts like a man. Let's let politics go. I live there, gentlemen and my children live there and my parents live there and my friends live there. You don't live there. And don't tell me about the protection of the interest of the Croatian people and how you all love Vukovar. This is not how Vukovar is loved, and this is not how the interests of the Croatian people in the town of Vukovar are not liked.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43893	Now it's Mrs. Maria Selak Rasdic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43894	Two basic intensities of this law. One is to moralise politics, and the other is to disable at least in the eyes of the public what is being asked as a question of family abusers to run for the upcoming local elections, and let us hope for a future policy. As far as moralising politics in the name of the club is concerned, I taxfully cited all other laws, electoral laws and showed that this process is systematic indeed and there is no such thing as running for the President of the Republic, no one prescribes any criminal act that would prevent an adult from being trusted tomorrow by the citizens of the country. As far as domestic abusers are concerned, and that only sounds good because if we look at rehabilitation and the rehabilitation process, then we can see that in these acts up to one year, and these are the most frequent penalties that are prescribed in the case of a family settlement if there is a regulation at all, we can see that, given the 3-year rehabilitation, it may eventually in one election cycle, make it impossible for some paradigm Tomašević to run, and it certainly wouldn't keep him away from politics forever. So in this sense, this law is a change for the better but certainly does not realize any of the intensity it tries. In this regard, I also find it a failure to even comment on the prosecutor for gender equality who believes that these provisions should be extended to those who have criminal penalties but are relapses for domestic violence. Namely, what's the message in that case? It's okay if someone slaps a woman once, but if he's a relapser, then he shouldn't go into politics. There's nothing going on here but the impression of something being done. So the key decision remains for us citizens. Now that's where we come up with that basic question that's been crystallized so far in the debate. And what is the responsibility for this poor state in politics in the current policy, and what is the responsibility of the citizens who have elected parties or representatives to represent them in this policy? I'll remind you of the Constitutional Court's decision of 4. April 2017, which refers precisely to this electoral law, its earlier, its earlier conduct. In it, Proposer Vlahusic, Andro Vlahusic, who submitted an assessment of the constitutionality, states that he has the charisma of a successful mayor of an intellectual who has significantly improved the functioning of the city of Dubrovnik and that the real and hidden reason for the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Local Elections in the unconstitutional and disprohibited part is the ban on Andri Vlahusic to run in the upcoming local elections, and he, as a lex Vlahusic, refers to only one person and the result of the calculation of the parliamentary majority with political indivisibles. So, in 2017, when the election law changed, we had the same situation where there was a lex related to the individual. Interestingly, the individual who had been convicted spoke of his charisma regardless of his judgment as sufficient for good city leadership. But if we are really going to talk about the responsibility of someone who is convicted still being able to be in politics if the citizens want it, because our tragedy is that we think that no one is right in politics and that everyone is stealing and that we are sharing these thieves into capable and incompetent thieves, then we should be reminded that the key is not in the citizens who choose, but the door that this key needs to be unlocked is still in politics, and that is what maybe even citizens because of their poor policy function are not sufficiently aware. I will remind you that, for example, the leader of youth, even HDZ, has been unanimously elected as all by acclaiming unanimously in HDZ until it is uniformly torpedoed depending on the current political consolidations. The law states that places are automatically placed on lists that come to the Croatian Parliament, for example, so that those who are parliamentary listeners, not those who are the strongest in their local environments, get key places. And then what are the Croatian citizens doing, the one who votes for HDZ? Or if he's afraid for his existence he votes or votes because he thinks he's voting for Tudjman's HDZ and some state-of-the-art policy, but he doesn't vote for those individuals you put in those places. The change of the electoral law is a prerequisite for the democratisation of society and is a responsibility to politics, not to citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43895	Thank you very much. You have one replica of Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43896	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, therefore, define that as such they will bring a different form of return to public morality and faith in politics and politicians at local levels as such. I think you agree that a man, namely an individual, is just a free individual with no shackles of any party who can restore one form of morality, honesty and justice within the policy itself as primarily serving the citizens. What is happening today and what will continue after these changes is one form of privatisation of public money since HDZ rhetoric in the Split-Dalmatia County is one form of vertical government that is necessary for certain investments, certain projects, etc. What about the tower affairs, the set-up contests, the thugs who beat up women and belong to the HDZ ranks? Will HDZ in the future what you think have candidates who will be able to run for executive power in the local elections? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43897	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43898	My colleague Kujundzic, I will be cynical, so I will say of course he will because either their verdicts or their processes will last forever or the verdicts will be liberating if the situation in the judiciary remains as it is now. So, this will not affect HDZ people, but perhaps our mental efforts should be directed elsewhere and think whether these changes are trying to prevent some of the other parties from running because their personnel have been very well protected. And the second question of this demagogy is that the citizens are there to choose and not to be responsible for politics but for the citizens any decent party would make it impossible for anyone who compromises any level of competition at all. And as for this one quality amendment to electoral legislation, citizens would breathe in terms of democratic processes, and then they could be fully responsible for their elections, everything else is a mere demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43899	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. Arsen Bauk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43900	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to discuss a little differently than anyone else so far because I basically don't support this law. That despite my club's announcement of support, I, although I confess only to the court of my own party, have advocated this to allow me a separate opinion. So, the moment human rights are reduced, and the right to run is one of the fundamental human rights at least in a democratic multiparty system and when the entire public and everyone supports it, then it's time to light up the lights and wonder what's going on? Not only that, we've heard suggestions here that even criminal responsibility cannot be run, and then we heard the suggestion that even after the period of rehabilitation can't be run. I think it's time to say it, brother. So I'm against any demagogy maybe because I trust the people more than the judiciary. I'll read you an article. 30. The Constitution: Penalty for serious and particularly unfair offences may result in losses or bans of acquisition for a certain period of time of certain rights to carry out certain tasks, if required by the protection of the legal order. With all due respect, I don't think our legal order has made it so difficult to protect itself because of two or three convicts that the people will choose on certain duties. Sory, but I think so. And secondly, it does not seem to me that all the acts listed in our criminal law are particularly difficult and particularly unfair. It's in itself language impossible. If there is something special then there must be something that is not special, it should even be most of it. We put here that all crimes in the Republic of Croatia are serious and especially unfair. No one can become captain or councilman unless the people choose him. And if the people choose just like that, then the question is that we ask ourselves something else, so we put on a wig and heels so that one thinker from the beginning of the 21st century says and we act something, and in fact, when people choose us, then it's good, and when they choose some people who are convicted of something, they're not. For example, the former Prime Minister Catalan was sentenced by Spain to a two-digit prison sentence, was elected to the European Parliament, his immunity was removed, if he returned to Spain he would be imprisoned, but was elected, the people voted for him. Why? Because he finds his judgment unfair. When he returns to Spain, he will devour his own, if he ever comes back, if he is delivered and how it works. Therefore, no one will be spared the sentence that the court has imposed on him. And we now want to put into law that every verdict weighs more than 6 months even conditional, and what a difficult and particularly unhonorable act if it is condemned conditionally, as well as the loss of civil and other rights as the communist court tried '40 and some for these people's enemies. I, forgive my colleagues and colleagues for this kind of demagogy I cannot agree to. And when you all talk like that, I'll talk different about this thing. So everyone has the right to run, the people have the right to choose whom they want, and let the court decide that he goes to prison, and then he will not be able to act in his duty. On the other hand, none of us MPs without HS approval can conduct any criminal proceedings at all. And now we have a hypothetical situation that a national representative because his assembly is not going to be able to run for immunity because he's not convicted, and his competition that isn't going to be able to run for this because of how his colleague Grbin listed the crime of causing a car accident out of nowhere with a serious bodily injury, which may be this one I mean even a broken arm, that we're not going to go into these aesthetic procedures shooting the nasal bone. Therefore, I am not in a position to restrict the right to run, I am in a position to restrict the right to act, but by trying to predominate the government's desire to protect us and against those who have been convicted, I have given two amendments to which I have proposed if the government already considers that this ban on running for office or to extend to those who have been nominated by a political party who has been legally convicted of criminal offences. I don't know who that could be, hypothetically we can assume this, but since we're going, when, when the ball is, let's be afraid, as you say. Yeah, yeah, and the masquerade ball does. Yes, to conclude, this is what we let the people choose and criminals say more about the people than about criminals. And secondly, this one with this kind of justice, I'm not sure that some of the verdicts will be motivated by the elimination of political opponents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43901	Thank you very much. Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43902	Yes, I must say you of the SDP are the characterization of hypocrites and insults of common sense because your basic gene is just manipulation of the judiciary. Let us remember your Linic, the Supreme, and it is known that most of the tycoon in Croatia that we have that they have a participatory past, which is usually your service. Please, that's confirmed and confirmed by the Munchen court. And when we take the main feature of your last government, it was called pre-profit deals, privatisation of Croatia's insurance, and logically that you do not allow functional justice because as a party you would not exist at all that the judiciary works. After all, your relationship with the controversial Danko Končar and the Zuzul brothers confirm that your personal benefit is obviously the only purpose of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43903	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43904	I assume this is the last time you said your thoughts about me, not the whole party. But I've already read that somewhere that you said that because my relationships with them are nothing, so they're not there, with either one or the other. And as for the rest of this, I have to admit that listening to this debate in one part of it, I was worried that you and I would be the only ones agreeing on this, so I'm kind of glad that you've made up those mortgages just to get rid of you in something, so we're still gonna stay at odds like we're bored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43905	Ms. Marija Selak Rasudiæ, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43906	Comrade Bauk, I would like to remind you that the fundamental position of the European Court of Human Rights is that states are free to impose stricter conditions for the exercise of passive voting rights than for the exercise of an active voting right. For various civil service jobs, too, a certificate of impunity is required. So I don't think we can relativize everything like you tried. But what we can do is look for unique criteria. There cannot be one criteria for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, other criteria for local officials and further not to list. So, the question is, is this policy if it now only seems hypocritical for local elections and creates legal uncertainty in relation to all other policies for any other elections in the Republic of Croatia? Also, I'll remind you that the prison parallel isn't good because everyone won't go to jail. Many prison sentences of six months will be replaced by a probationary sentence with a deadline of trials. So we're not going to solve the problem that way. In part, I agree, maybe, but if we're going to limit it then we need to be consistent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43907	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43908	Thank you. As far as the European Court of Human Rights is concerned, he has just said that countries can do it themselves and it would be good to actually see comparative analyses as it is in other countries. As far as certain matters in the State Service are concerned, there is one thing that I find unconstitutional because you cannot be employed if you are subject to criminal proceedings, and the Constitution says that no one can be considered convicted without having a judicial power, for everyone considers innocent while having a powerful, inadmissible, while there is no judicial verdict, and as far as leveling criteria are concerned, I fully agree with you, just think that the criteria should be uniform in the way defined in the Law on the electing of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43909	Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43910	Dear colleague Arsen, I am pleased that you have testified that there is a break-up at the SDP Club, that these are all your colleagues on one side, and you are contrary to such a lonely opinion I hope will be shown on Friday at this vote. We Croatian sovereigns are absolutely against the relativization that you have now stated because you may be going from the reson of a top mathematician, but on the right, constitutional law you very little know. Give yourself up and common sense will be better and conclude that basically any limitation of passive voting rights in the interest of justice, public morality and legal order is welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43911	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43912	I thought I'd keep this quiet, but I won't. So, in your club, every 29.11. we were forced to keep a minute of silence from a convicted war criminal named Free Praljko, and now you're telling me that someone who blamed the car accident cannot run. And you're telling me that I don't understand myself, that, yes, yes, we didn't want to enter the hall on 30.11. so that we wouldn't be brought into a situation where we had to do so, so stand in a minute of silence for someone who was convicted of war crimes, even from a court in The Hague. And now you're telling me that I don't understand myself, I understand very well in constitutional law, I understand very well in constitutional law, and that's why I think, of course, I haven't doctored, but not many others are talking about law, so it doesn't matter. So, and the doctors don't agree with each other. So I just said that the people should be given the right to choose and that as far as I'm concerned, don't vote for those who are convicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43913	Thank you, thank you. I didn't understand 29.11. or 30. Because you mentioned two dates different 29.11. or 30.11.?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43914	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43915	Okay, thank you very much. Wait, wait, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, 238, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43916	... I quote an article by the Rules of Procedure, which is out of the question, this one speaks beyond the theme of a respected colleague named Bauk. [[Specially enabled.]] It's absolutely inappropriate to talk about the Free Laundromat today. Please don't do this, don't sin on the interests of dead people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43917	I don't go into content, but I have to give you a warning because 238 doesn't predict it. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43918	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Bauk, when you suggested that those political parties who were convicted of corruption could not run for the lists, I came to say what Boromir said in the Lords of the Rings, we simply understood Frodo Baggins, but then I realized that it wasn't because it wasn't the percentage of citizens who supported so badly and corrupt as the party itself was corrupt. I think the problem is much deeper, it's existential and it's about the conditionality of voting for HDZ with its own survival, even if it's at the expense of the state that everyone allegedly loves so patriotically. What I expect from you as a member of the SDP, which is the largest opposition party in the Croatian Parliament, is to support the reform of the Election Law and territorial reshuffle because it is the best way to exclude corrupt politicians, corrupt political parties from the election process in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43919	Thank you. Thank you, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43920	Thank you. As for the reform of the territorial system, I remain at the level of my island and do not go beyond that because there are different visions among all inhabitants as it should appear. As far as quoting goes, it's the Ring Lords, right? Yeah, Mordor's still strong. But it's not too strong, it's 20 percent, these 70 and something's still on the other side, I just don't like how it's arranged, but it can be better. So, about why people vote for someone, there are different motives, so someone votes for emotions, someone rationally, someone is thought to be blackmailed, someone for various reasons, but ultimately it's a free choice and the people have the power they deserve, so says the old folk proverb, you here can only warn that he can have better. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43921	Thank you very much. Mr. Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43922	Comrade Bauk, you mentioned the people, the people of voices, I agree, but the question is, what are the people, how many are left? Our country has lost 1/6 of its population in the last few decades, it is logical that those people who unfortunately are in a difficult position may be left with a larger number of people tied to one party, a party that is ruling, so that the people also change in favour, sometimes for the benefit of the ruling party. Also, there is the issue of turnout, unfortunately in local elections, there is always less than 50% of citizens, so it takes a lot less votes to win. Unfortunately, today under the current afternoon we heard the same thing about the big victories in the last election a year ago, unfortunately that victory was with 1/3 votes and why there were less than 50% of the votes, so 1/6 votes, and again one party received almost absolute power in the state. So unfortunately when I say people, the question is who does this people, it's made by voters, and unfortunately the turnout when it's low, the question is, is that it's the will of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43923	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43924	Yeah, and what you're gonna do, that's the way it is. So if you give 3 goals and you receive 4, you lose the game, if you give 1 goal and you don't take any, you win the game. So, the fact is that every year fewer and fewer people in Croatia go to elections and the fact is that every year fewer and less people live in Croatia, but we who are chosen here, we have the task of changing that trend. So, in this sense, we at the level of the artistic impression that it is in art skating, we can object that HDZ with increasing fewer votes gets more and more mandates, so you colleagues, from cycle to cycle, you get fewer votes and more mandates, but that's not their fault that we get less, so we have to take care of our own, and they take care of themselves anyway always, that's how it is. Therefore, the aim of parliamentism is to show citizens that they have poor authority and the aim of the authorities is of course to say that the opposition is even worse than they are, but it is so always in parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43925	Thank you. No more replicas, Mr. Bauk. ... After, after, after, after, after, we'll finish up a little bit more anyway, and then you'll explain to me not to burden others. [[Bauk, you don't understand.]] Mr. Tale's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43926	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As already mentioned, the SDP Representatives' Club will support this law on amendments and amendments to the law but what we are particularly bothered by in this law has already been mentioned by the president of our party, it is about checking out means, check out the residence. The law stipulates that the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, as well as members of the municipal or city council, and the County Assembly, which declares their residence to end their term of office. What we believe is yet to be added is that it is possible and out is the place of residence under official duty and that the term of office ceases as well. That's what we are, we're going to try to solve it, so we've put in two amendments that we hope will be adopted. So, that the residence which has been checked out and under official duty, that it is also the basis for the end of the term of office. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is an unfortunate time to bring it. Laws related to electoral legislation would be better if they were passed at least one year before the elections themselves. Okay, we can say that this content is positive, that maybe the changes are not so great, but we should always stick to it that the laws don't change before the elections themselves because it always leaves one clue among Croatian citizens that this is brought about by a specific person or a specific political situation in some of the Croatian cities, municipalities or counties. And since we have 556 cities and municipalities and 20 counties, we have a large number of political situations in all these municipalities and cities. As for the size and territorial structure of Croatia itself, we must always return to the census. There were 1.3 million people living in the Croatian municipality 20 years ago. As we know, at the end of this year there will be a new census, we will probably get that millions of people live in municipalities today and perhaps less. When we divide these million inhabitants into 429 municipalities, we get the fact that the average municipality accounts for 2300 or 24000 inhabitants on average... The larger ones, which have 10, 15 000 inhabitants, although few. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most municipalities have 1,000, 1500, 1800 inhabitants, that's something we have to ask ourselves, that structure is a good structure. It is already mentioned that in the future it may be a problem to agree a list, I do not think, when it comes to the government, it will not be a problem to agree a list, but the problem is of course financial amounts, because the salaries and fees of the mayors, mayors, mayors and members of municipal and city councils still come from the taxes of our fellow citizens, so it is something that burdens citizens through taxes. But there's another thing, there's a question of some quality frame after all. If we have a municipality of a thousand inhabitants, are we going to find enough quality fit to have a quality chief, but if we have at least three, four other candidates who may not have managed to be mayors or mayors, but they will be successful quality members of the municipal or city council, that's something we have to ask ourselves. And of course someone's going to say we have great municipalities that may have a small number of inhabitants, yes, but there may be 10 or 20 examples of them that aren't. So the size of a local self-government unit can tell us a lot about the quality of work, regardless of who's in power. It is also a question of the county in Croatia, Croatia is reduced, some demographics say to less than 4 million inhabitants, so 3.2 million people live in the county areas when you recalculate it into 20 counties that is 160,000 people. These are broad topics of policy, on such topics should really build a consensus in society, it is not just a question of one power, it is a matter of creating one climate in society to think about what is needed and what is good for our society. And what we need to remember is that it's 2009. I personally believe that this is a good thing, I think it is good that the wider the circle of people decides about power. We've painted the American presidential system here, I think it's a good solution, but unfortunately we haven't passed on what exists in that presidential system in America, but also in the presidential system in Croatia. the limitation of the term of office. It's the same thing we need to take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43927	You have a replica of Mr. Butt first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43928	Thank you very much. Changing electoral laws in 20 days or months ago when there were major changes where it was only considered that they had a double right to vote by a national minority, it was a bargaining, mainly to the SDSS Milorad Pupovac so that in Vukovar and other areas in the election of the council they could have a double right to vote, that's a bargaining, that's trade-teering by the majority's will. So that's the first one. Secondly very important, here is mentioned earlier by your colleague General Praljak in a negative context, he is also here after World War II convicted and blessed Aloysius Stepinac that he is a criminal, but he is blessed and will be a saint. So about General Praljak your club has a negative opinion Well, you can explain that to me. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43929	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43930	Yes, I was hoping to be constructive in my discussion, to invite everyone to consider some topics that we should consider, I would not now like to return to these topics that are deeply shared by Croatian society. A colleague who said so warned because he was also called for judgments to be respected, so he mentioned it in this regard. I repeat, I wouldn't go back to the subject. Today we are talking about local elections or these changes so that I would focus more on what we can improve in the future, and not what we can't possibly do, we can't change the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43931	Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43932	Dear colleague. I took your debate as a wish for a constructive debate to highlight certain problems, and that's where you touched the number of inhabitants. I think it's often wrong, and in my opinion it was wrong at the end of the amendment that something was corrected in this Law on Local Self-Government when the population criterion was mentioned. This cannot be the only criterion given the fiscal capacity, given the size of the business, in view of the budget, given the geostrategic situation and the importance of the particular environment. Now here we have the case and this earthquake affected the area and we see what these local environments are like, and often here when it comes to local self-government, it avoids the essence of what these people on the ground are doing, what their key functions are and what they are doing there, from unclassified roads, from waterways, from sewers, from many of these things that life means to that local population. So, the population criterion in this part of all those advocates who say there's too many the municipalities or cities or that the structure does not go well in the wrong direction [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] to the harm of the citizens. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Klaric, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43933	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43934	You said fiscal capacity, I agree with that, but the fiscal capacity itself depends again on the number of taxpayers. the number of citizens. Of course, there are some municipalities or cities that, for specific reasons, may have some income, either from tourism or in some other way that may have higher incomes. However, in the vast majority of cases, the situation is such that if we have a small number of citizens as a small number of taxpayers, of course it further burdens the functioning, but not only burdens the functioning of these units but also burdens the economy through the tax audit. As far as I'm concerned, for example. The territorial units themselves, there are different sizes, in some countries we have districts, which might be equivalent when the translations of our county actually have districts of three million people in some countries, which is almost the population of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43935	Thank you very much. No more replicas, Mr. Price. Thank you very much. Now we move on to the closing words of the club representatives. It is the first club of Croatian sovereigns to be represented by Mr. Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43936	... said, everything we needed to hear we heard, everything we were going to do as well we did. [[Last-on speaker]] Finally, we support all the views that go for it to, to arrange the situation both in this case on, to run in the field of local administration and self-government. And in the following phases, that this is exactly the kind of reformal conditionality that respects the decisions of the constitutional court, we are also passing on to the rest of the original legislation. We are on the stand to limit passive voting law and that, as we see with European views, especially the Court of Human Rights, and our constitutional court, there is no dilemma, there is no ambiguity, it is in line with our constitutional legal order. However, we, the Club of Croatian Sovereigns, advocate and encourage all of you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, from power, especially from opposition, regardless of what your member, Mr Arsen Bauk, has expressed disagreement with this member of yours, to listen to your own conscience and to support constructive good, smart solutions that follow, not one vengeful spirit, not one as he said totalitarian communist approach to be found guilty without judgment, to stone it, to put it outside society, but simply following a modern approach, one human this absolutely natural attitude that people who have sinned in their lives in, in a more difficult way by committing more serious criminal acts, so that this digression around a traffic accident is completely deplaced, I mean, it is, of course, that this cannot be taken into account, and that it is now not actual is said that it is merely a serious offence of this discreplication or disclosion. And therefore, I ask you all to support this amendment of the Croatian Sovereigns where we bring that level down to the disqualification of all candidates and candidates who already have against them by the Court by condemning this first-degree verdict or a confirmed powerful indictment or criminal order, because practically there were all those judicial controls, all constitutional rights and freedoms of the Code of Criminal Procedure and all other laws guaranteed, and the attorneyship, the party that was the defendant in that proceedings, or the defendant, had all the opportunities and patiently exhausted and in one impartial procedure the judicial authority made that decision. That's enough reason for us to restrict such a person's right to run against us. We are witnessing that, that our, our voters this in the election campaign are being seduced, that's a fact. Everyone, that, that, everyone wants to show this better, better, smarter, wiser. Here, now we'll have a chance to see that in a few days. And, of course, one number of people who isn't awake enough, who isn't informed enough, who even has certain interests somewhere has opted out for some person, is he promising her something, he's offering her something, he's offering her some hope, and the man behind him has what, there's a sink, there's a dark, there's one proven, half-proven crime, and that's why we need your approval. On Friday, raise your hand for that amendment, let's put it down, we'll be proud, our children will be, certainly, clapping our children on that courage. There's no need for some of this already powerful, non-mighty, convicted thieves, thugs, fools, criminals, to even stand a chance, to dirty us all, to do one great harm to all of us. That's why they say all politicians are the same, you're all dirty, you're all looking for yourself. Why should some fool make us all suffer? Thank you very much and support that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43937	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Dalia Oreshkovic will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43938	Thank you, Chairman. The law we discussed today and the changes contained in it are simply not worthy of the challenges of the times and circumstances under which these local elections will be held. If nothing else because of the new wave and the escalation of the numbers infected with the Covid-19 virus, the facts of the difficult collection of signatures, as well as the expected less turnout of our voters. Moreover, it is not up to the real problems that reduce the democraticity of the electoral processes, and it is truly sad that this 5 to 12 fragmentary point is changing one small segment that will not significantly contribute to anything, and we are also showing a terrible resistance and reluctance to all the crucial changes that should have long been implemented in our electoral system. There's nothing, someone mentioned the word "modern", "modern", Mr. Sacic seems to me right before me. No, there is absolutely nothing modern, nor modern in this law, nor is there any indication that if anything else were to be forwarded to the announcements of digitization and other great words that were to be admired by the current power. There are no electronic signature collections, no electronic voting, no end or proper voter census, no proper voice weight evaluation in certain places because we know that the situation has changed significantly over the last few years by changing the demographic composition of certain places. There is nothing really that an election process would do to accessible Croatian citizens and motivate them to go out because they see that nothing changes in Croatia from a decade to a decade. So a lot more when they see that the Law on Local Elections is passed a few weeks before the handover of local, electoral lists for local elections, we can actually see two things. First, we have so much incompetent and so disorganized power that it is unable to think ahead. What, now suddenly these days we've remembered that we need to put in place different provisions on the inability to go to elections with the power of convicted persons. We didn't know that a year ago when we last changed this law? We didn't know that we had local elections in 2021? So don't be ridiculous. That is really offensive to those who listen and follow us in one way or another. I doubt we're being transferred to HRT right now. Last-minute unpreparedness. Sooner or later, we'll find out who this person who's just finely intonated and set up the provisions and who bothered you from your opponent from some other political parties. Also for many years now, when we are talking about local elections and about who will go to these elections and who will eventually be elected or not be elected, we are not dealing with or at all discussing the issue of dual mandate. At the same time, the conduct of a local function or functions in the executive authority at local level and the behaviour of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and how it reflects or does not reflect the quality of public office behaviour and ultimately the message we send to voters whether we are actually there for them, for our own sake, for the sake of the party, for whom. Finally, our entire electoral system, as well as the territorial structure, as a general organisation of the state and the way in which political processes are financed, is tailored to the interests of major political parties. And of course our voters see it. And of course they're not interested in participating in such a one that I don't tell the farce, in a cycle where a good part of the outcome and the results are known in a certain way, or a great certainty can be projected in advance. If we are not already able to discuss these issues and these problems and adopt some quality solutions, then we should not have discussed such a law right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43939	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj will represent the position of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43940	Thank you very much. Government representatives came quickly a few days before the elections or weeks themselves to collect signatures with amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Elections, for local and regional self-government. The question is whether according to the Constitution, is it correct, is it in accordance with the will of the people to amend the Law on Elections of the Month, a month ago we changed where we gave double the right to vote to national minorities i.e. The SDSS, which was torn out by Milorad Pupovac, who will benefit from this in Vukovar, other areas where they have this particular number of members of the national minorities, has been favoured exclusively by the SDSS. So these laws we're talking about here when we're looking at it from the law itself, then we have to say that the purpose of every law of these amendments, you say those who are punished, convicted, that's as if they can't run. But I don't believe in the judiciary, I don't believe in the Shakespeare judiciary, and here's what now. Who chooses by the Constitution? People. Who can be chosen? Every single person. Here in the Shex judiciary, I don't believe what he put together, here. How are we gonna make a deal now? I don't believe in the judiciary that Vladimir Shakespeare put together, fashioned, made. A moment ago, my colleague Bauk mentioned General Praljko. We have condemned in history who were just. We've got Aloysy Stepinz. How do you make the laws? Just the current situation of the parties in power. And that's how you adapt the laws. I personally believe that in the Republic of Croatia, such changes have too much impact on the electoral processes, especially before the elections, in the year of the elections, even when we joined the EU in that year, the Constitution on the referendum is changing. In a year, you don't have to come out 50 plus 1 this voter. So we direct and channel the complete processes of democracy of choice in the interest of someone and not the will of the majority of the Croatian people. What's the point? What's the point of all this? First of all, does the people trust the judiciary? Is it the judiciary that is in Slovenia at Club 9 that we have ministers from the government, we have the current president, we have judicial high judges, is that the justice system that the people will be sourced with? We have too many problems piled up to make a purely political month or 3 months, regardless of whether I agree with this provision, however the key is, the key to the problem is the judiciary. Justice is the biggest problem and people's biggest mistrust is in the judiciary. And the election laws don't change for a year because if someone from Zagreb was supposed to be the mayor of HDZ, the candidate, did not live in Zagreb, i.e. He had no address at Zagreb,... It was going to adapt at that moment but the man didn't agree to be a month before he checked in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't do that, we can't change it every time in an election year, let alone 20 days before we choose a certain thing. We must make the right provisions within the law. But the Constitution says each individual can run, be chosen and choose, it's the right to vote. And 20 days you populist, as something we will now prevent, help. Another colleague, Bauku, here mentioned little General Praljko unrelated to this topic, mentioned many other things, so here was Chetnik Vukic, bowed to him here in the Parliament that attacked Croatia, which was to be arrested right up here at the entrance to Croatia, being a driver in Remetinec. What we gave, a minute of silence, for example. General Laundromat or I don't know who. So it was out of the question, but this is what I had to say. Once again in the end, I find it embarrassing to change the law, the electoral laws of the year in which elections are held, let alone 20 days any law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43941	Mr. Branko Bačić will now represent HDZ's position, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Excuse me, dear secretary of state with a co-worker, respected co-workers and colleagues. Already, on behalf of the club, counterpart Cappelli has made a position under which we in the club will support the amendments to the Law on Local Elections for the reason that he cited them and, in fact, for reasons written in the very reasons of the law, so that the conditions can be clearly laid down, and in what way, the mandate of a member of the representative body or of the executive authority in the local self-government unit and on the other hand, as well as how can the candidate of a representative body or member, or representative of the executive authority in a unit of local self-government be limited. We hold that these changes, no matter what the month has been made, a little more than a month before the elections, that their change is not such a nature to change electoral legislation. It in a certain way makes it impossible to access the elections of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been convicted of a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison or probation has been suspended for a period of more than 6 months. and I think that this is a contribution to what we expect from politicians, which is that politicians are subject to certain criteria that raise standards in Croatian politics and that is why we believe that this is absolutely acceptable. We have submitted amendments, 3 amendments to the HDZ Representatives' Club, which we have read in a certain way and from discussions on the Committee on the Constitution in which we have practically proposed amendments in which such a ban on running for office would not apply to persons who have committed criminal offences from a non-criminal prison even though the sentence has been replaced by work for the general good or the condition of conviction. And I think that's how we practically and discussed the Committee on the Constitution, we've involved in amending the law. What seems interesting to me is the amendment of my colleague, Bauka, who proposed to be in art. 4. add point 5 in paragraph 1 that the ban on running to a political party convicted of a criminal offence is the right... It's a felony. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It might be wise to consider that such an amendment also applies to acts that have been convicted of violating the powerful verdict to violate the Law on the financing of political parties and election promotions. As far as I am concerned, I have information at this time, only the SDP, in fact, that has a powerful verdict for the violation of the Law on the financing of political parties and election promotions and for the implementation of local elections in 2009 when Sljeme TV sued SDP for not reporting a certain amount, seems to me about 4.5 million kn in the financing of the election promotion of the then mayor of the city of Zagreb, which was run by the party of the SDP of Croatia. Therefore, it would have been good if you had already written such an amendment, if you had really gone transparent to the end, in a way that this prohibition provision, about the inability to run, the candidate lists or candidates, relations and the political party that is to a significant extent when we talk about the financial aspect, which is about 10 million kn in the end, was decided later on with the SDP settlement, it seemed to me that something had changed there, but at this point only the SDP by the Croatian judiciary was legally ruled for the violation of the Law on the financing of political parties and election promotions, so that perhaps such an amendment would have been somehow more credible and could in some way complete this one collection of misdemeans made by the SDP in respect of the Finance Act. political parties. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43943	I'm closing the debate and we'll vote. ... Excuse me, but... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43944	Mr. Vice President, you made it impossible for me to sign up for the end of the club because you told me that on behalf of the club was told by a colleague of the Story. He didn't speak for the club. [[Intruder Radin: Yes.]] Excuse me. [[Intruder Radin: How is it not?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43945	And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There you go, my bad. Here you go. It was the last individual, so I, it was my fault. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43946	Thank you, sir. No, it's okay. It's a misunderstanding. I didn't mean to answer, and it was stupid for me to get a warning to pick up an injury to my colleague, Bačić, so I took advantage of this business opportunity. So, I say in advance that if the government accepts my amendment in a changed form and suggests that I agree with it, but it's now a matter of government. And you didn't read the article well, I wasn't talking about the ban on running, I was talking about the termination of the term of office if a final verdict came during the term of office, so it would refer to future judgments. And it seems to me that, not that it seems to me, but that I am absolutely certain that in the case you mentioned, the SDP was not convicted or convicted, let alone of a crime. It was one property civil request where the court ruled something... No, no, no, it wasn't even a violation of the law, it was a property claim. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, it would be a guy not paying a rent somewhere or I don't know, but no, it wasn't about Mr. Bačić's property claim, it was about a claim for compensation, it was about something that was spent, not a misdemeanor or a criminal. As for my colleague Bulj, you, if I read correctly, resented that in my individual debate, I compared the Blessed Cardinal Stepinac and Mr Praljko or something, that I would only remind myself that the ruling of the Communist court by his decision was lifted in the 1990s. And as far as this verdict is concerned, it was brought by the UN court, where we asked for establishment, and I did not plead guilty in my individual debate but merely the fact that someone was convicted of something. I also have the right as a citizen to think that some verdict is unfair, whether someone was convicted, and I think it shouldn't have been, but it remains a verdict, whether someone was released, and I thought he should have been convicted. But that's just my opinion, and I had no insight into the file or I looked at it, so it's an impression question, and each of us has an opinion, whether it was a penalty at the World Cup final when this judge was watching that hand in the 16th grade, we can discuss whether it was or wasn't, but the judge ruled it out, and so did this. So in that sense, in that I'm a little bit of a relaxer, I was just talking about legal facts, not my court of law, whether it's fair or whether something happened, and so is this. So, the legal fact is the verdict of someone, and whether the court rightly ruled is determined in the appeal procedure, if it's legal then in a constitutional lawsuit or in the European Court of Human Rights, and what any of us will think about what the court has ruled, that's our thing now, that's some kind of freedom of opinion. In this regard, if I, as the applicant of the amendment, can make it conditional on the fact that if the Government accepts the intensities of counterpart Bačić that I accept this modified form in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43947	Mr. Bulj has committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43948	Thank you very much. Here is my colleague Bauku's violation of Rule 238, because he made an inaccuracy where he said General Praljak... was convicted as a criminal in the debate, but I only said one finding that Stepinac was also convicted of Jakov Blazic and the relief click that the criminal and the difference between law and justice is enormous. /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, weather.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-07-0.u43949	Time and warning, and I'm closing the debate now for real. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, then we will discuss the points on the agenda, but we will also have a report on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you very much and goodbye. SUNCH Interrupted at 6:21 p.m. 13 hours, taking a stand. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,01 HOURS]] Can I? Thank you. Mr. Daniel Spajic will present the position of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement in his cruelly spoken free speech, please.
