ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57755	The next Club of Representatives will be the Bridge and the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57756	Dear colleagues, it's not our number, but I think it's an important topic when we talk about child safety, so that's a very important topic. I have to say that on several occasions I spoke with this pay phone in the previous period, even proposed certain amendments and legislative proposals that even the Minister of Transport accepted, I can say that in my town's area, transport is secured for all students, free of charge to Split, so we have solved the transport of another county to our students, so we have provided money for primary schoolers, which is not covered by the state and the county, but we have another problem. We have a problem that the minister quickly solved the problem of taxis as he says, that they cannot be road users, i.e. to provide taxi service older buses than 5 years. But here, the other day, a bus burned down carrying students to Sinj from Prometo Sinj, and each week a bus burned down in which children are transported. And that is why the minister sent to Sinj the chief traffic inspector and was with me, that a traffic inspector will be located in the town of Sinj, but still buses older than 30 years. They're older than Sinjska Rera, older than the Bible. I ask the minister, how is it possible for taxis to be a 5-year-old limit maximum, and buses where children, primary schools are brought in, where parents send them literally as if to be sent to an atomic bomb that will be launched, where they cry and don't know they want their children back, the Transport Son of the owner of Mate Junovic who devastated that traffic giant, which is the Auto Transport Sinj, simply that public transport is not safe for children or for passengers in the area of Sinj and Cetin region, even wider. At the same time, the same Mate Jujnovic in Makarska at the time of tourism has the latest buses, in the Cetin area, in the relations of Sinj-Split and local relations, buses are over 30 years old. Minister, I'm asking you one more time, Butkovic. Inspectorate, why are you doing this? Why are you sending children to their deaths? We're talking about the crown here, we're wearing masks, as soon as we get into the hallway, we take off the masks. As soon as the cameras go out, we take off the masks, and we send the buses older than Sinjska Rera, which each week one bus burns from the malfunction. Imagine what it's like for parents to send their children to school with, I don't know, our villages, Glavica, Brnaz, Bajagic, I don't know, from other areas. So what kind of state are we? We've limited our taxes to 5 years, buses carrying children, where everything is secured for free, so my city has secured money for free for students, so we pay, their parents don't have a burden. And many other benefits. However, we did not pay for the chapel for the children, a coffin for the children. We paid for free transportation, we pay for the budget, the people pays, those who have, pay taxes, and we earn income for all children to have free transportation. But a proper bus, suitable both for years and technical conditions. And so year after year. So who's hitting that Mother Junovic? Which one he's involved in, I don't know, what would I say, an octopus? Buses over 30 years old. Who gives him a technical examination? The correctness of the technical vehicle? Every week a bus burns down. The kids are afraid to go to school, the parents don't know they're gonna get their kids back. Once again, I appeal to the safety of our children because when we all call for safety, we wear masks, here's why my colleague Boric threw it to his eyes, in the hallway he certainly won't, in the hallway he certainly won't have a mask, but that's why he'll have a... to the eyes, that much more important is the safety of children than this farce you throw away to wear masks in classrooms that are meaningless measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Get them the right buses, Croatian government. Limit age of age and technical regularity 'Cause [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] They deserve to be safe. [[Employer: Next Club Representatives...]] A ride. [[Intruder:... will be Croatian...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57820	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block, and Ursha representative Raukar Gamulin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57821	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, neither after the the thematic session of the Media Committee, where several parties and oppositions and rulings clearly expressed their disagreement and concern about the decision of the Electronic Media Council that, regardless of the proven integrity of a document required in the tender documentation, Top Radio concession was not withdrawn, the Council for Electronic Media has not changed its majority opinion, 5 members opposed to the president and vice president, and with Topo Juric Kačunić, the contract for concession was signed. If you don't work in the media, you probably haven't heard of Ivan Juric Kačunić until this affair when the Council for Electronic Media, according to many evidence and legal opinions, has unlawfully left him a concession. For example. He is very fond of collecting stamps more precisely he is the holder of over 20 brands rights for radio stations at local, regional and national level in the Republic of Croatia. According to the Register of the State Institute for Intellectual Property, it is, therefore, Antena cafe, Antena FM Zadar, Antena Zadar, Antena Osijek, Antena Rijeka, Antena Split, Antena Zagreb and then another Antena Zagreb but under another registration number. Then on NT radio, CISA FM, Lagaini FM, National Radio, and another National Radio, then Rocken Radio, Rock Radio, Ultra Radio, Zagreb FM, Ultra FM, Zana FM, Zana Radio. It's an impressive list, isn't it? She likes Jurić Kačunić and some not exactly legal acts such as. subletting state assets to other companies. In a particular case, I leased it to myself only by such an illegal lease agreement. More precisely falsely proved the availability of a radio media space in a concession award contest. He loves Ivan Juric Kacunić and sign certified statements that receiving the concession does not result in an illicit concentration under the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media. You know, I declare under criminal and material responsibility, so it's signed, a little bit on reception, the stamps mentioned earlier are, of course, a mere coincidence, a man simply likes to collect stamps of various radios and, well, they have nothing to do with illicit concentration under the provisions of the Media Act. And he also likes to give interviews in which he claims that all evidence of excessive ownership concentration is false because he simply loves stamps. And one member of the VEM is enough, even quoting him at the board's session as proof that there are no irregularities or illegalities whatsoever. Besides, our Juric Kacunić also likes to collect companies. He owned 38 companies. 38, impressively, which business man, ha so, villains and enviouss say that a dozen of these companies went bankrupt and that there remained debts of more than tens of millions of kunas and so everything that Ivan Jurić Kacunić loves, it is interesting that he is widely supported by the Council for Electronic Media, which, regardless of what is apparent, violated a series of provisions of the Law on Electronic Media, awarded the concession of Radio 101. Not only did it assign, but it also refused to withdraw, although it was proven that there was no document in the tendering documents. And Top Radio started broadcasting yesterday. They say some who listened to that miracle yesterday better not. Formated radio brainwashing with a fantastic slogan, "The Music You Shave". And so, while our Juric Kacunic shaves, we wait for the Administrative Court to give its word. The government of the Republic of Croatia will obviously not be expected to present us with a proposal to replace members of the Council for Electronic Media who are clearly acting against the law. And while we wait, the Croatian Journalist Society has reported this case to the EU Commission and Europe will have to lecture us again and again. Thank you for this to Ivan Jurić Kačunić, the Council for Electronic Media and the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57877	The next Advocacy Club will be the HDZ, and a respected representative, Nadica Dreven Budinski, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57878	I would like to emphasise the sustainability and flexibility of the economy in the past how we all like to emphasize the new normal time. Since I come from Varazdin County, from northern Croatia where there are many craftsmen, small businessmen, OPGs and many successful business zones, according to units of local self-government which are key indicators of the movement of the Varazdin County economy, from the pre-pandemic period 2019 to the pandemic period 2020. And in the first half of this year, they say that there was no significant decline in the economic activity of the county, not in any segment, but in certain segments, better indicators were achieved in the economy, in the pandemic 2020, but in pre-pandemic 2019, so we can conclude that the county economy is stable. In 2020, there was an increase in the number of employees in the economy by 1.6 while the total income was almost at the same level as in 2019. The net financial result in the county economy increased by as much as 22.3% in 2020 compared to 2019. With the growth of the number of employees in the economy, the growth of craftsmen and uto was reported in 2020 compared to 2019 by 4.5% and in June of this year, compared to the period previous year, even by 6.2%. This contributed to the measures implemented by the county during the pandemic, with nearly 2 million from the county budget, with the support of 585 craftsmen and... Industry has certainly contributed to the support measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to preserve jobs of 451 million for 3321 employers and 32 993 workers, respectively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Varazdin County has one of the lowest unemployment rates, so in 2020 it was even 4.3%, the second lowest rate in Croatia, while in June this year the unemployment rate in the county was 3.5%, the lowest rate of all counties. The county has been at the top for years after exportation, of a total of 6.6%. An amount of 9.2% billion kuna was realised, which is only a few percent lower than export in 2019. Also, the total trade balance is positive and has been achieved at 4.1 billion kuna, which is growth by almost 5% compared to 2019. Despite the pandemic, investments in the county have not been halted, investment in the economy, education, health and other areas has continued, and by looking at the investments in the economy and assets themselves, the fixed assets, they increased by as much as 5.5% in 2020. In 2020 there was an increase in employees' salaries for... We believe that the industrial transformation of the north of Croatia will contribute to the change of the structure of the economy in favour of industry and services of more value added, that that is how we approach it seriously, and that the status and further steps of drawing up a plan for the industrial transition of the north of Croatia that will greatly contribute to the development of the economy and all other segments that make life more beautiful and more comfortable in one country or county or state, so it must be stressed that the city of Varazdin was among the best cities of profit from entrepreneurs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This I would like to appeal not only to the people of the Varazdin County but also to the entire population of the Republic of Croatia, given the growth of the COVID 19 case, to be split because the government has provided not only support and measures for all entrepreneurs but also the vaccine, therefore, only with responsible behaviour do you still have a stable economy that guarantees the development of health, education and all that makes life a quality and progress of a country even better. That, in Varazdin County, these days, we bring in many directives and laws that will contribute greatly to the economy, agriculture, development, that we in Varazdin County are here, we have a plan for the industrial transition of the north of Croatia, which largely covers 5 counties. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57879	Thank you very much. Since we have now been an hour, we will now make a small break in this point and continue as is the custom of taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. So the first on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative, Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57968	Thank you, my dear. Did we lose the battle for Djuru Djakovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57969	I'm asking you, colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you nicely, my colleague Vukovac is behind the pay phone, he wants to say something, so let her know the right you take each time. It's extremely incorrect, in fact, to interrupt a colleague, please. Here you are, dear MP Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u57970	Thank you, Vice President. Did we lose the battle for Djuru Djakovic and what does that mean when the government says it's looking for strategic partners? When a company that was giant in production and employment is reduced to one small drive and the state is asking for a strategic partner, we can conclude that it is none of our business. Djuro Djakovic produced a military programme, specifically armored vehicles and was the only such firm in Croatia. There is no example in the world that a company that manufactures armored vehicles can survive without the help of the state. Obviously, our government doesn't understand that. Our country only knows how to sell. Does the public know that Djura Djakovic's debt is greater than the $ 360 million that the state has already seen, will have to write off a new partner and how different it is to the burden of citizens? They will find new benefits for the new strategic partner just as it did for Agrokor or Petrokemia and similar companies where models were sought that would benefit not citizens, but strategic partners. This move leaves Croatia without strategic production for its Armed Forces and raises the question of how serious it will be in the event that it is not one country that must not rule out and these are possible threats by armed force? The condition of Croatian armored vehicles is not perfect, of the 126 manufactured vehicles of Patri, 1/3 requires equipment with remote-controlled weapons stations both Đuro Đaković and products, however, the decision of the ruling ones was that, instead of our production which is strategic, the Israelis were chosen because they were cheaper, and we rejected production that satisfied even Americans at their own time. Instead of creating a 3600,000 kuna debt, the state could maintain the company's orders that the Croatian military needs. We are also talking about 70 M-84 tanks that require modernization, a prototype of modernized M-84 devarians was created long ago in 2007 and could have been an excellent export product. For 360 million kunas, we could modernise 1/3 of our tanks. The third biggest problem of Croatian Army armor is the combat vehicle of infantry, currently the BVP M-80 has become obsolete and does not meet modern standards. We could have, like Hungary licensedly produced new vehicles in Đura, as was the case with the Patrius. Hungary will thus produce 170 vehicles at home, employ domestic people, master new technologies and raise its own GDP. The management of Đuro Đaković was able to modernize over 140 tanks of M-84 and produce over 200 vehicles of Patri and produce domes for Americans. There were many concrete projects in sight, all of them fell into the water precisely because of an incompetent policy that set up an incompetent administration which, of course, would not suit anyone. When strategic partners take over Djuru Djakovic, can we expect him to keep the workers, preserve their existence and keep the families together. Those who lose their jobs in Djura Djakovic will be forced to leave Slavonia because that is how the Croatian government solves the problem of unemployment. In this way Slavonia has been emptied, demographically devastated, and the Croatian economy is increasingly vulnerable and increasingly incompetent for any growth and development, and then there are no surprises about the European Commission's assessment that it is Croatia that has the least potential of growth and development among all EU members. For 30 years, various rulings have been searching for models to save our companies and our economies and, behold, the wonders of the model of privatization of the public good applied even at the time of the fall of Vukovar to this day have changed little. The domestic movement is not generally against privatisation, but in this way it certainly can't be a good way to go. In Croatia we still do not have a free competition and therefore it is no wonder that we are an example of partnering capitalism, extract, bargain, sell and fence that this is no longer your problem. No job shortages, no first grade shortages, no labour shortages, no empty hearths, no low standard of citizens. One thing is certain by handing Djura Djakovic over to the management of the foreigner, Slavonci gave the state everything they had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58087	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58088	My fellow MPs and MPs, in the last point, I said that because of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Croatian Parliament has ceased to be the area of dialogue, and that this speaker serves to ensure that each of us MPs do their part of the monologue. But I'll anyway here's a little bit of the parliamentary representatives here, but at least the public is working to set up a few thesis and hopefully encourage the citizens themselves to ask themselves questions and look for answers and remove the same two I have. And the questions are about like this. Is the problem in the Republic of Croatia that there is a certain massification of justice? Do we have any more Masons besides the former state's attorney general in the courts, and we don't know who they are? Or is the problem with having incompetent judges in the State's Attorney's Council, incompetent people in the state's attorney's office themselves who can't produce acts that the Supreme Court wouldn't dispute because they're badly explained? Or is the real problem that from the very beginning the system is not by accident, but by purpose, designed and deliberately so designed to meet the needs of the corrupt HDZ? What exactly am I talking about? I am talking about the fact that in February 2019, a former chief state attorney resigned to his post because it was revealed in public that he was actually a masseuse or that he was a member of a secret society regardless of whether it was a true or false Masonic loin. This led me to Drazen Jelenić's statement that he was actually impressed by the invitation to approach this lodge, and in my public opinion, he showed that he had a very low level of self-respect and absolutely no awareness of what the chief state attorney's duty is with him and what obligations it entails. But the bigger problem is that it took our ethical committee to deliver its decision for 9 months, and its position to say that membership in the masses or membership in any organisation that is secret under its internal rules of work, is incompatible with the conduct of a state’s attorney’s office. Then the proceedings were initiated disciplinaryly before the State Attorney's Council, the State Attorney's Council on 2 occasions demanded a suspension from the exercise of the state's attorney's office and a year and a half later we are in a situation where the Supreme Court of Appeal Drazen Jelenić two times abolished the suspension decision and thus allowed Drazen Jelenić to continue to carry out his state's attorneyship as deputy chief state attorney, to participate in the colleges, that the Republic of Croatia was represented on behalf of the DORH at international conferences. And now I'm wondering, what's going to happen next? The ethical principles of action are also disputed by political parties in power. The Ethics Committees were the basis of the Commission's action to decide on a conflict of interest which is now clearly in vain hoping that the Supreme Court will change the bad practice now established by the Supreme Court on the request for an extraordinary review of the legality of the State's attorney's office. But I'm not so worried about the fact that these hopes of the commission are in vain, I'm worried that it's actually some kind of poetic justice that the Supreme Court has abolished this suspension decision because why don't we have a deputy chief state attorney as a masseuse who's found, unethically acting his function when the entire government is actually unethical and corrupt, and there's no institution and there's no body that could end that corruption. I'm also worried about the fact that the main problem is the silence of the entire system. In fact, media are being questioned that the DORH allegedly wanted to settle in silence with Jelenic and wanted to leave him room for manoeuvre to leave the institution alone. Instead of being quick, efficient and efficient in determining which rules, which are fundamental duties of anyone working in the system either as a politician or as a judicial employee, undertake to respect certain basic principles and principles. And most of all, I'm concerned that kleptocracy directed by HDZ is creating a new anti-corruption strategy even worse than it was the previous one fully based on ethics, integrity, principles of action that can't be expressed in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58147	... sovereignist, will speak the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58148	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. There are many problems in Croatia, however, there are some historical topics that are not less important because a people who forget their history simply cannot have a future or write bad in the future. For the past few months, we have witnessed stronger and renewed efforts with neighbours from the east, on the fundamental facts of Croatian history. These recommendations are not only academic but are mostly consistent with the policy of the "Serbian world" or renewed aggression between Vuciceva and Vulin's Serbia. On all these intelligence and media pranks about millions of victims, Jasenovac, the innate Croatian constitution, the demonic first white field and the like, Croatia is either silent or engaged solely by the so-called so-called so-called Croatian team. small media, and there's not a word about it in the mainstream media. Of course, we cannot influence private television, but we have a public service called Croatian TV. As a representative in this Croatian state council, I believe that Croatian television, in order to fulfill its legal role, would have to organise a series of round tables to which a wide range of historians and publicists would be invited. Not only those permanent guests, but also some who are not on TV, which are almost banned from the HRT. My question to the competent ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to the Croatian public, whether such an obligation to maintain regular round tables on history with a broad invitation to guests can be maintained regularly at public service, which is HRT. Could that be on the HRT program? Can HRT be discussed critically on all topics? Can we talk about Jasenovac? Can we also have Croatian experts, historians who will give their opinion on the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58149	Just a minute. Comrade Bull, if you're already on the phone, please keep your voice down. Let my colleague Zekanovic say what he wants, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58150	From this place I call on the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, I appeal to Croatian broadcasting, I appeal to the Ministry of Culture and, of course, to the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to finally start talking about this forbidden topic in Croatian media. Unfortunately, our neighbors from the east speak exclusively of this subject. They make high-profile films such as "Dara from Jasenovac", while in Croatia, there is almost no talking about this topic. Let's put things on the table, let's talk about this topic, let's talk about this topic, the subject of the supposed Croatian people's constitution of the troubled first White Field, let's talk about the problem of Jasenovac in Croatian media and let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58192	The next club of MPs will be that of the HNS and the independent representatives, excuse me, I skipped, will be that of the HSS and the Workers' Front in the name of the respected representative Katarina Peović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58193	Here, thank you. I will look around and hold a short lecture for those all MPs who are not here because, behold, some and tourists are just showing up, and I would like to give a little warning about what tomorrow is likely to vote because it is Friday's voting day, and what many club representatives and MPs have missed out on their own, and the opposition has not strongly highlighted some points. First and foremost, the Minimal Act. So tomorrow the supplements will be voted out, amendments to the Minimal Act that allow people to be paid less than the minimum of that month when this Law is enabled, so it was already possible that, if there is a collective contract, the minimum will be reduced to 95% of the minimum wage, and now it will be possible in those working intensive industries if the collective contract is signed to divide the fund hours, the annual fund hours, and that the months in which workers are allegedly being paid less than the minimum, so it's said from the HDZ that when all this is divided in a year, it will, the workers will get the minimum, but those months when they don't get the minimum, I'm asking the HDZ question, do they need less to eat that month? All of this law will have a lot of problems, but let's remind ourselves of the Copyright Act. Here, the Copyright Act, which will be voted tomorrow as well, and as warned by the Association for the Protection of Journalist Copyright, will put employers in an unprecedented privileged position and actually take away their copyrights from the authors, as the Minimal Salary Act takes away workers' minimum wage by law guaranteed minimum wage, as well as the Copyright Act, so it is clear that it takes away copyright authors and automatically grants full copyright to the secondary holder, i.e. the employer, and not the primary author. There is also the Law on Electronic Media, which dealt with communist regimes as equating with Nazi and fascist, but did not deal with depolitizing the Council for Electronic Media and allowing the Council to vote on members of the Council for Electronic Media in a way that would not be appointed members of the ruling furniture, or, say, by preventing the advertising of state bodies of public companies in commercial electronic media in the way it is now done, which is actually another name for corruption, i.e. the spilling of public money into private pockets, as was the case with the Fimi Media. Or, there is the Electricity Market Act which may potentially lead, here are colleagues who are terribly concerned about the Law on Referendum, but were not there when we talked about this Law, the electricity market, it may cause a enormous increase in electricity prices for citizens and difficulties in, a society within HEP and this HEP group, because, therefore, one article will be allowed to fully build the necessary infrastructure for new connections, which will actually lead to terrible problems, and if we add another article to that, which is that this Law HOPS is being transferred from d.o.o. to d.d. with some inconclusive explanation that this is an authentic translation of EU rules, then clearly, that this law, namely these legislative proposals, can in any way destabilise the HEP group. We have submitted amendments to all these laws, unfortunately ruling does not accept any amendments, not a single proposal, so it is expected that neither tomorrow will be the case, that is, and the Seed Act that we also talked about yesterday, which brings some good things, but there are some very bad ones. What would be very good is that the opposition concentrates on making pressure and warns that the situation in which the ruling is completely denying and rejecting all legislative proposals, all amendments, are unacceptable and that it is impossible for any amendment, no legislative proposal to be good and that it is necessary to reject them and that we are actually talking here already about a chronic situation that seems to be, and part of the opposition supports it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58270	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP and will be spoken by respected representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58271	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today I'm going to talk about the care of our patients, especially oncological ones. Cancer is the leading public health problem in the Republic of Croatia, others are the most common cause of cardiovascular mortality and is responsible for 27% of deaths in the Republic of Croatia according to the 2018 data. The Republic of Croatia is at the bottom of the EU at the rate of survival, among the 5 countries with the worst rate in adults. The most likely reasons for such an unfavourable oncological outcome in the Republic include high exposure to adverse effects, particularly smoking and obesity, lack of quality primary prevention programmes, poor health awareness, insufficient early cancer detection programmes, late diagnosis, poor availability of quality oncology care throughout the Republic, lack of radio-therapeutic and other expensive and sophisticated equipment, lack of true multidisciplinary in oncology, lack of quality oncology databases and quality control, insufficient investment in all aspects of oncology, from science to treatment and related symptomatic care for our patients as well as monitoring of treatment outcomes. Due to the situation in the health system, the number of patients decide on preventive screenings of screening programs are now significantly reduced in the pandemic, follow-up checks and additional tests are delayed. The pandemic and availability of care to our patients will further worsen survival rates due to late cancer detection or treatment problems. We are facing increasing departures of healthcare personnel from Croatia, oncology departments are specific because the staff on them are after years of work and mental spending, and it is difficult to find a replacement on the market there are not enough nurses. The State, however, does not worry about fulfilling all its obligations to employees, nor about increasing registration quotas for nurses or healthcare professionals, nor about improving working conditions. These days we are monitoring media dissatisfaction with healthcare professionals from roof health institutions for the treatment of cancer patients. The main problem is the irrationally poorly controlled national unbalanced consumption of large funds invested in the treatment of cancer patients and various particular interests. The minister must clearly answer all questions on this subject, so I also addressed him with a written parliamentary question. We have longer waiting lists of increasingly unsatisfactory patients and healthcare professionals, which will inevitably be done, reflect treatment outcomes. We have long waited for the National Strategic Framework against Cancer to see the light of day in 2020 to 2030. According to the document, 5 are areas where strategic steps are expected. Primary prevention, secondary prevention, cancer diagnosis, cancer treatment, paliative care and pain relief but nothing significant has been done in use in these 9 months. HZZO rules have become obsolete and in many ways contradictory and unspecified. There is a lot of dissatisfaction with our patients over the cost of transport related to the use of healthcare. Patients who go to radiotherapy or chemotherapy are entitled to a travel order if they go to another facility outside the residence for more than 50 km, but they do not have any control before or after treatment. There are other chronic patients. HZZO accounts for the cheapest amount of transportation that refunds, and does not ask whether there are bus lines or trains from the place of residence to the institution in which the patients are being treated. It commends the Association's "We're not alone" initiative to provide donations to citizens with the transport of oncological patients by taxi when they go to therapy in Zagreb. But the task is to make it an integral part of social services at national level, such as in most developed Western European countries. Some of us Parliamentarians will look for it through our constituency bodies. In recent months, there have been several cases of cancer patients, especially breast cancer patients who had to wait longer for treatment due to inaccessible search periods, which can certainly have consequences for the success of treatment. Some were delayed 6 to 8 times, the problem was in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka. The medical authorities, which at the hospital directorship level, or the ministry, are undermining the problems, claim that everything is great, and I personally made sure that it wasn't because my patients came to me. According to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for Health, 2 and a half billion kuna are foreseen, of which 720 million kuna for cancer patients. But the ministry says the plan is to define by the end of 2021 which equipment will be purchased, carry out public procurement procedures by the end of June 2025, and only until the end of September 2025 to conclude public procurement contracts. Our patients can't be that long. Wait. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58326	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS, HSU and independent MPs and will speak to the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58327	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Sometimes the opportunity comes to share satisfaction with two or to make them happy with two positive information. It's not every day, but there it is, it happens. Today, in an emergency procedure along with the signatures of parliamentary majority deputies and the signatures of parliamentary opposition MPs, I sent a proposal for a law amending the Voluntary Health Insurance Act. The essence of the proposed amendments to the existing law is to increase the price for supplementary health insurance from 1600.12 kn to 2000 income per family member, i.e. from 2047.20 kn to 2500 kn for single. So, based on this bill, all who, after 1 November 2021, will, in a month, slightly more than a month, have less income than those, receive a free supplementary health insurance policy that will be financed from the state budget. I estimate that this kind of legal intervention will protect us from the significant financial separation of nearly 120,000 citizens, pensioners, workers and unemployed persons. This is one of the whole series of reasons why I advocate co-operation with the government of the Republic of Croatia and support its work. The principle of censorship must be clear, should be formulated as follows. Set a census because it means protection at the appropriate border and then harmonize those census so that the born with the lowest incomes are constantly protected and not in the case of an increase, e.g. Retirement for 10 kn, that the hour falls under protection and the hour falls out of protection. This is because of the comparison because I have to say that from 2008 to June 2021, the average gross salary in the Republic of Croatia increased 28.19% and the current pension value was harmonised by 27.08%, while the censors grew by a minimum of 5.5% today. With this bill, we bring into balance these three categories, so we balance the growth of gross wages, between the growth or harmonisation of the current value of pensions and the censorship of the poorest in the Republic of Croatia, in order to achieve uninterrupted health care without an indication of how rich or how few resources there are for life. With the growing lack of society, we can fight together by giving through the social state or by solidifying costs related to certain existential needs of citizens and the universal availability of health protection is an imperative set before each civilised community. This small law, two articles, a few words and figures, will produce a huge impact of 100 million kuna per year as much as is available to our poorest citizens. This is another precious rock in the mosaic of the fight against poverty among the first in the Croatian society to be crushed here in this Assembly in the debate with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to point out the satisfaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to open a third deadline for the payment of COVID supplements which failed to do so within 2 years for reasons of delays or delays in the delivery of documents, and I am pleased that among other things, they have respected my proposals to open the third deadline. I stress the satisfaction that with these two proposals and these quality, positive information can congratulate all of our citizens, especially older age, tomorrow's International Day of Elderly People. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58730	Now we move on to the amendment statement. First of all, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading of the P.Z. Number 172, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Marin Miletic. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Dear Sanjin Rukavina, State Secretary and Ministry of Justice and Administration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u58731	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59392	The following is the report on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Electricity Market Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 146, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the HDZ Representatives' Club and representative Katarina Peovic. The amendment was submitted by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Mile Horvat. First, Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59393	Dear MPs and MPs, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59394	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment number 2 of MPs Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59395	The amendment of the honourable representative Katarina Peovic is not accepted. The amendment in question is not in line with Directive 944 of 2019 on common rules for the internal electricity market which is transposed into Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59396	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59397	I apologize if you can tell me if this is about Article 12(4)?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59399	Yeah, okay, thanks, I'll ask for a vote. What's this about? So the item determines that the creation of technical conditions in the network so far is the obligation of the system operator. The following article does not provide an explanation which would deny, in accordance with the 10-year plans, the development of transmission or distribution networks and regulations governing networking. The creation of technical conditions in the network means the construction of new parts or reconstruction of existing parts of the transmission or distribution network, etc., so this item can cause an enormous increase in the price of electricity for citizens and the difficulties of the company within the HEP group because it means that operators will need to fully finance the building of needs needed infrastructure for new connections. That's what lobbyists will do for us. And if we add this next, next item unnecessary insistence on us by this law that HOPS from d.o.o. transfer to a stock company with an inconclusive explanation that this is an authentic translation of EU rules. It seems to us that these items can destabilize the HEP group. So it is not clear that although you have assured us in the debate that these costs will not go to the HEP Group, that these costs that were now 80 percent on private investors will now not go entirely to the HEP group which must also introduce infrastructure where this infrastructure is not existing. So to fully achieve a new distribution network and where there is no connection to the network.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59400	Are you asking for a vote? Amendment number 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59401	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59402	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment number 4. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59403	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation. The amendment in question is not in accordance with Directive 944 on common rules for the internal electricity market which is transposed into Croatian legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59404	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59405	Please, since it seems like we're not going in the same order as we're listed, can you please tell me which amendment you're explaining? I don't know what article.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59406	Look, you've all got written, I can't convince all 100 amendments to everyone why you're He hasn't prepared for that. [[Is it 26?]] [[/Intruder: Art. Versus 26/St. 2/]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59407	Yes, we have two amendments to the article. 26 Look, sir, we've got them written here, but it's not going in order, so we have a 2 in art. 26 [[/Intruder: Yes, this is in art. 26, second time, please prepare for debate.]] Okay. [[/Intruder: You have in the table, writes to you exactly which amendment to Art. 26, specifically, I think I'll help you, but get ready in the future for such a debate.]] In respect of Art. 26, then I'll tell you, so we have two amendments, we have an article. 26 St. 2 where We add behind the words of the unit of local self-government and units and bodies of regional self-government. [[- Yeah, that's the one.]] So what we wanted to suggest here is that we don't see why the energy community of citizens in a restrictive way are regulated by the team article in a way that can be the owner of the share body of the unit of regional, local self-government, and can't be regional, so a school owned by a unit of local self-government can be, and across the street from a high school owned by a county won't be able to be. So it's completely illogical and I don't understand why either.../incomprehensible/... they don't want to add units of regional self-government as possible owners of shares or members of the energy community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59408	Are you asking for a vote? Amendment No. 5 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs. [[I'm asking you to vote on this.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59409	The amendment is not accepted. The adoption of the amendment in question would create technical disturbances in the network related to the quality of electricity supply and voltage for all citizens, as there would be an excessive entry of electricity when taking over it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59410	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59411	We're staying on the amendment and we're asking for a vote on it. We don't understand, I'm going to point out again, that argument, and that's why it confused us, on the previous amendment because we don't see how the directive would limit it to, say, regional self-government being members of energy communities, and as far as this is concerned, we also don't think there's a real technical reason for limiting the power of production and that it's pre-legally constraint, that 80% of the limitation of the connection force looks both arbitrarily and as prejudicing something that may have no basis at all from the perspective of technical conditions at a specific location. Thank you. We're asking you to... [[/Intruder: Looking for a vote?]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59412	Amendment No. 6 Clubs of Green-Left Block Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59413	Amendment No. 6 is not accepted with the same explanation. Similarly, it does not comply with Directive 944 on common rules for the internal electricity market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59414	On behalf of the club, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59415	We remain on the amendment and demand that it be voted on and also, we believe that this uniformed response is not in line with the Directive should be clarified. In accordance with which part of the Directive, therefore, is it not, does it not, for example, agree that the introduction of an advanced measurement system is made within 5 years and not within 10 years? I don't understand, here, can you please explain to us what part of the directive this is not in line with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59416	So you're asking for a vote? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendment No. 7 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59417	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59418	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment No. 8 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59419	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59420	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment No. 9 MPs, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59421	Amendment No. 9 esteemed representatives of Katarina Peovic are not accepted with the same argument that it does not comply with Directive 944 on common rules for the internal electricity market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59422	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59423	Okay. I'll try to interpret it, which means it's not in accordance with the Directive. That, I guess, means the directive says it has to be d.d., right? It's a translation of this. However, the law imposes, without any rational reason, the transfer of HEP from the former organisation of a limited liability society in d.d., a shareholder society. But there is a reason here, and I will state it, and in this it is an authentic translation of EU rules, i.e. that of the EU Parliament and Council Directive of 5 June 2019 on common rules for the internal electricity market, which is in line with this proposal of the law and has now been translated, has this bill, where it stands to stand a limited company rather than a limited liability society. Despite the fact that the EU Directives are first and foremost not implemented directly in the country's legislative framework, such as with EU regulations, despite the fact that the EU has not had any objections to the current legal structure of the CAPS and subsequently issued a certificate to the CAPS for this adoption of the ITO model, the CAPS as a directly integrated company of HEP d.d. and despite the fact that this model guarantees significant independence in business, this position introduces unnecessary change. Countries like Slovenia and Hungary didn't do it. If the CAPS and the rest of HEP come into financial difficulties, and it looks like it is to be achieved, transformed into d.d. will be targeted at a logical conclusion, on the need for recapitalisation, in other words, the privatisation of HEP, which allows art. 104 laws that weren't problematic, but now they're getting very difficult. The company Croatian transmission system operator D.o.o., HOPS, is part of the HEP group, is extremely important, so it has a key role, and therefore we consider this change to be extremely dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59424	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? ... Amendment No. 10 of the Legislative Committee. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59425	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59426	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 11 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59427	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59428	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 12 HDZ Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59429	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59430	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment No. 13 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59431	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59432	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 14 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59433	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59434	It's becoming an integral part. Thank you very much. The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on certain aspects of the contract on the supply of digital content and digital services, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 150, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee of Green-Left Block Representatives. During the debate, the presidents of the proposal accepted the amendment of the Committee and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Dear Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59526	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted and that is because the proposed regulation of criminal sanctions does not comply with the provisions of the Criminal Code. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Infringement law for the perpetrator of the offence, the right person cannot be prescribed or imposed a penalty of less than two thousand kunas or more than one million kuna. And prescribing such criminal sanctions by setting a range of minimum and maximum penalties is a rule. While the possibility of prescribing penalties in a particular procedure is prescribed only exceptionally when the Criminal Code allows it in two cases. In the first instance, paragraph 3, paragraph 9 or Article 33, paragraph 9, this is only possible for the most serious infringements in the area which are explicitly prescribed in this paragraph, for example, in the case of safety and health at work or not meeting the essential requirements for construction, and therefore does not include the regulation of this final draft of the law. In the second case, Article 33(10) of that Regulation is also possible only for infringements for which a legally binding EU act provides for a range of fines and in which case it is possible to prescribe it. Therefore, since none of these exceptions relate to the infringements to be prescribed in Article 25 of this final proposal, we are not able to accept the amendment in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59527	On behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59528	I thank you for your explanation. We are aware of the limitations in the criminal law and the way in which criminal penalties are prescribed, but we remain with this amendment and we ask that it be voted on for the reason that the current infringement order has shown an inadequateness of the actual criminal sanctions because the criminal sanctions are strictly prescribed in absolute amounts, rather than in percentages of annual incomes. Well, then you're also a misdemeanor who can afford to make a lot of money. We see here that 100,000 kuna is the maximum, maximum penalty, and those who therefore earn millions can also afford that kind of punishment. We want to make it known in this assembly that the way in which criminal penalties are prescribed must be changed and that they must be linked to annual revenues, and in this case, the revenues of traders who provide services from the supply of digital content or digital services, because in any case, or absolute penalties, we have a situation of inadequate punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59529	So you're asking for a vote? Now we move to a statement on amendments submitted to the Final Proposal for the Copyright and Related Rights Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 61. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Karolina Vidović Kristo, representative Davor Dretar, club HSS and RF, representative Miroslav Škoro, representative Darko Klasic, representative Marija Selak Rasudić, Green-left bloc representative club, Centre and GLAS club, representative Željko Pavić and SDP representative club. The amendment was submitted by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, the Honorable Secretary of State Kresimir Partl. First of all, Amendment No. 1 Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59994	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. The provision shall be in accordance with Art. 1. Universal Conventions on Copyright which is a member of the Republic of Croatia. More detailed copyright works are regulated. 14th century 2nd of the final draft of the law, which also cites journalistic works, and the implementation of the directive does not require an amendment to the basic definition of copyright.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59995	On behalf of the club, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59996	Your Honor, Vice President. We will insist on the amendment for the reason that the proposer himself through Ms. Minister said that we finally have journalistic works in copyright, we see no reason to leave it out of this introductory article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59997	Are you asking for a vote? ... Amendment No. 2. HSS and RF representatives' club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59998	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation as for the amendment under the ordinary No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u59999	On behalf of the club, respected representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60000	... Article 2 of this article puts journalistic works as authorial works, so it is obvious that it is simply missed in some items, so at least it seems to us. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] We'll ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60001	Amendment No. 3 Representatives of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60002	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation given in addition to the amendments... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60003	Dear representative Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60004	So, I'm going to ask for a vote for the same reasons, so you have to consistently respect one whole profession if that's even the intensity of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60005	Amendment No. 4 SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60006	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation given in addition to the amendment under the ordinary No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60007	On behalf of the club, respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60008	Dear Vice President, we insist on submitting the amendments because the same journalistic work, if there is a literary work as recognised as an authorial work in that same article. 14. then it is also a journalistic work with the fact that the journalistic work must be subject to certain rules of the profession, while literaryly having more licenced poetry, but in any case we persist precisely for that very reason, because if we are already so proud that we have journalistic copyrights finally in that law, then it would be worth pointing out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60009	Amendment No. 5. HSS and RF representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60010	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is given in addition to the amendment under regular number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60011	On behalf of the club, respected representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60012	We'll ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60013	Amendment No. 6th Representative of Mary Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60014	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation as the amendment under regular number 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60015	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60016	I don't accept the explanation. I ask that this amendment be voted on, so we must consistently carry out a certain profession through the law and respect its rights if that is the case, and I will repeat once again the intensity of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60017	Amendment No. Seven. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60018	The amendment is not accepted. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. For example, the 16 types of copyright collections are listed as an information publication will enjoy protection as an authorial collection if all the conditions set out in Article are met. The 16th century.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60019	On behalf of the club, respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60020	Thank you, dear Vice President. We will persist in this amendment, and we will draw exactly the parallel between the anthology mentioned in the article itself and the informational publications. Anthology is a collection of literary works, and an informative publication should be a collection of journalistic articles independent of the media in which they are transmitted and for this reason we ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60021	Amendment No. 8. HSS and RF representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60022	The amendment is not accepted. The same argument given in addition to the amendment referred to in the ordinary No. Seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60023	On behalf of the club, respected representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60024	I'll add what's said, so in art. 158th of the Law proposal, an information publication is defined as, quote, a collection consisting mainly of written works of a journalistic nature which may include other types of works or items of related rights including photographs and videos. Therefore, in order to avoid any ambiguity, it is necessary to align this law and to include the informational publication in the article. 16 of the proposed law. We'll ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60025	Amendment No. 9th Representative of Mary Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60026	The amendment is not accepted. The same argument given in addition to the amendment referred to in the ordinary No. Seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60027	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60028	I do not accept the argument and, for the reasons mentioned above, I will also ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60029	Amendment No. Ten. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60030	The amendment is not accepted. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). Article 17(4) of the final draft law shall be Additional request from art. 8th century of the 5th Directive does not apply to the right of the author, and at any time excludes his work from the licensing mechanism of unreachable works on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60031	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We're staying with this amendment. We believe that the absence of the proposed exception could lead publishers of periodic publications into serious problems. It cannot be concluded contrary to what you have just said, and what chapter 6 of the final bill on page 250 states is that the inclusion of such an exception is contrary to the article. 8th century. 4th century. Directives 219/790 because they are in accordance with Article 5(5). 8 of that Directive is freely provided for by the Member State here for certain additional requirements and therefore we will ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60033	Amendment No. 11. HSS and RF representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60034	The amendment is not accepted. The arrangement contained in the provision of an article. Paragraphs 18 and 5 are justified and proportionate and are consistent with the practice established in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60035	Dear representative Peovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60036	The journalist is the author, the author is according to the article. The 21st proposal of this law shall be public, has the right to be recognised and marked as author of works, and the person who publicly uses the author's work shall be obliged to indicate the author in each use unless the author in the written statement wishes to be indicated or if the way in which the author's work is publicly used makes it impossible to specify the author. The following name and last name of the journalist who has been signed must be clearly visible and marked in all cases because any counter-action would be a violation of the right to recognition of authority. In addition, the proposed syntagma, I quote, if this is in line with the usual practice in media reporting is unnecessary since I am an art. The 21st provides for exceptions to the right to recognition of authorship. At the same time, this syntagma as provided for in the current bill is completely undefined, leaves legal gaps and a space for an unfounded circumvention of the right to recognition of authority. So we're going to ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60037	Amendment No. 12. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60038	The amendment is not accepted. The same explanation is given in addition to the amendment listed under the regular No. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60039	On behalf of the club, respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60040	Dear Vice President, we are insisting or seeking a vote on the amendment because, first of all, we do not agree with your argument either, because it is not the usual practice that the media or information content does not specify the name of the author, at least the initials, and that is to reduce the practice so far, and it is also a violation of the Media Act where this is now precisely defined and what is in force and the applicable practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60041	Amendment No. 13th Representative of Mary Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60042	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as given in addition to the amendment referred to in No. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60043	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60044	I do not agree with this explanation, and I will ask that the amendment be voted on and out of everything that my colleagues have said before and because, as I warned the Minister during the debate in the Law Assembly, to be the author, or to give the journalist the right to be recognized as the author, is not one plaque that is carried home by parents to make them proud, but rather something that points to certain rights that can be consumed. This amendment, as well as others mentioned on this trail, is just going after the consumption of these rights, so don't give any badges and posters but rather accept the amendments and allow these rights to be actually and can be consumed in real life. So the rights of journalists to be accepted as authors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60045	Amendment No. 14 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60046	The amendment is not accepted. Additional regulation of mandatory components of the copyright contract may result in invalidity of the contracts concluded if they do not contain mandatory ingredients. It shall refer to the basic provisions relating to copyright in legal traffic, in particular the provisions of the Article. 58.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60047	On behalf of the club, respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60048	We ask, of course, for the vote, that is, to insist on the amendment because in every legal paper, if the content of the contract itself is closer, it is easier to conclude it. After all, we also have precise provisions in the Labour Act that must stand in it, so this precision is essentially the improvement of journalistic, or copyright in general, which is the first and basic function of this Directive with which we are now harmonising domestic legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60049	Amendment No. 15 Clubs of HSS Representatives and the Workers' Front.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60050	The amendment is not accepted. The same argument is given in addition to the amendment mentioned under regular number 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60051	Dear representative Peovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60052	Well, I don't know what would be more important if it stood in that contract than the time and the place of duration, so I don't see why that's an explanation, I don't find it convincing and why it's being rejected. We will insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60053	Amendment No. 16 MPs Selak Radspudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60054	The amendment is not accepted. The same argument is given in addition to the amendment mentioned under regular number 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60055	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60056	I do not accept the argument, I will ask that this amendment be voted on, but it is explained why it is necessary. I agree that if there is an copyright agreement, if there are certain rights, then they must include clear definitions on what it will be based on, otherwise there is no point in even having the law as a prerequisite for the consumption of someone's rights at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60057	Amendment No. 17 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60058	The amendment is not accepted. A similar provision on a small publishing contract has been prescribed by the Law on Copyright and Related Rights for many years and has been introduced into the field of informational publications requiring rapid publication of the works and the regulation of the obligation to conclude copyright agreements in writing would constitute an disproportionate burden on the parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60059	On behalf of the club, respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60060	We insist on the amendment because we believe that it is not here, the written form here today is no longer a great burden considering that there are also patterns and we live in a digital age according to it, I do not see, especially considering that our Recovery plan foresees the digitisation of Croatia today, unlike sometimes in the last century or 2, I see no reason why this, not to accept it, under 1. Under two, regulations and laws serve to regulate something. With this article, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60061	Amendment No. 18 Clubs of HSS Representatives and the Workers' Front.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60062	The amendment is not accepted. The same argument is given in addition to the amendment referred to in No. 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60063	On behalf of the club, respected representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60064	However, if the law stipulates that small publishing contracts make an exception to the rules on mandatory written form of the contract, the above would clearly lead to the placing of the author in an even weaker position than the publisher who, as a rule, is a stronger party in a contractual relationship, it is therefore necessary to strengthen the position of the author. On this automatic refusal of all our amendments, I will not spend the words why it is important that these contracts do not make an exception, but I will only withdraw the parallel to this legislative proposal, as well as in the legislative proposals related to labour law, not only notice who is the weaker party and who should be protected and all these amendments go in favour of the author, and your refusal and the very tone of this legislative proposal, this legislative proposal actually goes in favour of employers. We'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60065	Amendment No. 19 MPs Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60066	The amendment is not accepted. The same argument is given in addition to the amendment referred to in No. 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60067	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60068	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Of course, the objective of this amendment as well as the amendments proposed earlier is identical and clear. The aim is to protect the rights of the author, in this case journalists, so that they are clearly defined, their obligations and rights within the law, especially here when we talk about small publishing contracts, so that there are no other forms of contract under them, or that it would not be difficult to define the status, position and material rights of journalists, which is indeed often the case in practice, and I am afraid that these entire legislative changes have not taken into account any journalistic practice at all and how difficult they are to come to any contract, and the consequent and consuming of any material rights, and in contracts indefinitely or any longer specified I will not speak at all. As a consequence, I have warned this in the debate, the inability to focus quality on the subject, reporting and specialising, and then we can later discuss even democratic processes in this country because we all depend heavily on media content, so working on journalistic rights is actually working on democratisation of our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60069	Amendment No. 20 HSS and Workers' Front Representatives' Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60070	The amendment is not accepted. An amendment shall require the removal of an article. 93, while the explanation of the amendment does not correspond to the content of the provision to which it applies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60071	On behalf of the Peovic Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60072	Yeah, I don't know, I wish you'd explained a little bit more carefully what we did wrong or where we did something wrong now. But I mean here I'm really going to repeat what I said before, but I'm going to point out the next thing. Putting copyrights primarily into the hands of the employer, and not the author, is actually one copy of American legislation, while European legislation has always gone beyond the hands of the authors. And it is evident that the copyrights here were also in the previous provision and the author kept it, while without restrictions, while according to the law in question, if it is not different, the employer acquires all the property rights of the authorship created by the author. This makes it more likely to put the author in a more unfavourable position, and makes it easier for the employer to say so and the decision to quit. Because if the employer retains all the rights to the works, that means the product that came out of the job, the property rights to the copyright, then the employer no longer actually needs a worker. So we will insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60073	Amendment number 21. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60074	The amendment is not accepted. The provision regulates the consequences of the termination of the contract and does not affect the possibility of applying for damages under the law governing mandatory relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60075	In the name of the club, respected representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60076	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we're staying with this amendment. Therefore, if paragraph 2 refers to a case referred to in paragraph 1 in which the contracting authority has failed to fulfil its obligations or has been delayed to fulfil its obligations, it is not clear why the author should return anything. And it really gets the impression very often that this is actually a law on the protection of the rights of employers, unfortunately. If, on the other hand, paragraph 2 refers to the contractual termination of the contract, then I think it should have been so precise and stated. I thank you and we stay with the amendment and we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60077	Amendment number 22. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60078	The amendment is not accepted. As well as the applicable Copyright Act and related rights under Article 100, it is regulated to apply to the copyright work created in the work relationship to be governed by this law, the labour contract or other acts governing the working relationship or other contract concluded between the author and the employer. A modification of the arrangements in the event that the contract of work or other act is not otherwise arranged. The proposed solution to the copyright in the work relationship was preceded by an analysis of the comparative legislation of EU Member States. In view of the fact that the existing model of legal arrangement has not been shown to be relevant in practice, many problems have arisen from it. This issue is now arranged in the same way as in most EU member states. The provision of Article 100 refers to property rights and does not affect provisions governing the moral rights of the author. Editorial powers in the field of media are prescribed by special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60079	On behalf of the club of MPs, respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60080	Dear Vice-President, we will strongly insist on these amendments because it is now increasingly clear that under the exception of the harmonisation of domestic rules with the European Directive, the current press rights that are in place and contained in the Media Act are fully reduced. And if we're already calling for Europe, then let's look at it for example. This Degran collective contract of Federazione Nancy Stamp Italiana or German this or what it has, which are German regulations through Deutsche Presserat. Then we'll see that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60081	Amendment number 23. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60082	The amendment is not accepted. The same argument given in addition to the amendment referred to in regular number 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60083	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60084	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're staying with the amendment. In the case of the termination of a working relationship, it is therefore more appropriate that the rights of use of the part created in the work relationship remain with the author as a less protected party. We also find it unacceptable to consider a provision that, by the very existence of a working relationship, gives the employer the right to process the work created in a working relationship without the express consent of the author. It opens the space of censorship as well as manipulation of the author's views. Article 26 speaks of the moral rights of the author, which are the author's personal and spiritual relationships with his author's work. If an author’s work is processed without the express consent of the author, they may become partially or entirely damaged or imposed. Finally, in the event of the termination of the employer's labour relationship, the right to complete the unfinished work of the author should be regulated by an agreement or contract concluded between the author and the employer. We'll ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60085	Amendment number 24. The HSS and the Workers' Front's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60086	The same argument given in addition to the amendment referred to in regular number 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60087	On behalf of the club, respected representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60088	Here's everything that's been said I'm just going to add to the fact that if you allow the possibility of processing the works of the author, it really threatens to come to the fakenews and censorship, and what you've given in your explanation has particularly surprised me, that the moral rights of the author retains. I have to admit, I don't understand how it retains moral rights, or what you actually meant. Anyway, we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60089	Amendment of the 25th Representative of Mary Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60090	The amendment is not accepted. Reason given in addition to the amendment referred to in No 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60091	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60092	So, I do not accept this argument, and I will ask that the above amendment is voted on by the team more clearly now, if it was not clear before, that the generic response you gave me is because the amendment that I have submitted is not identical to the amendments that have been defended here because my amendment, if you have read our amendments carefully at all, goes beyond and does not require that the property rights of the author be maintained solely by journalists but also referred to at other points of Article. The 100th also refers to the creators of the architectural part or computer games. So you can't give me a generic answer if I'm talking about three different groups that are defined differently and unprotected even though they should be protected by law. What journalists are most talked about, but I asked my amendment to extend it in terms of rights and those who are creators of architectural works, and also computer games that are even a little bit more protected through this law, I mean those who are the creators of computer games, so they're looking for their property rights. It's very simple. Man, especially if we're going towards what the whole West is going towards, it changes a lot of different jobs throughout its lifetime. But the specificity of a person’s being called an author compared to perhaps another occupation that he does not produce serial things but creates a new content that has a personal seal. And such content that is inseparable from its owner can never be about property rights, and it can further talk about upgrades at a symbolic level and any rights that so belong to us by the subject of the sole employer and his enjoyment. So we ask that the author as an author not only of the journalist but also of the journalist and architect and creator of computer games be fully respected in a material sense, because we all live on something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60093	Thank you. Are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60094	Yeah, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60095	26th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60096	The amendment is not accepted. A provision... on the basis of observations from public consultation, and the term important contribution and appropriate or proportionate compensation are common in the field of copyright arrangements and related rights. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60097	On behalf of the club, respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60098	Right out of public debate we insist on the amendment because it is a de facto amendment of the Association that deals with the protection of the copyright of journalists. So that's what they're most concerned about, and they put it in public, in public debate, and that's why the amendment was submitted, and it's not just our club, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60099	Amendment No. 27. HSS and RF representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60100	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is given in addition to the amendment referred to in No. 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60101	On behalf of the club, respected representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60102	I will only add to what my colleague Fabianic said that the Association for the Copyright of Journalists is a relevant organisation, and that during the entire debate and outside the assembly and at the plenary session, a very ugly and actually very non-aphimative ministry treated this society and the remarks that came from that society. We'll ask for an amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60103	28th Amendment of Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60104	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation has already been given in addition to the amendment referred to in No. 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60105	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60106	I do not accept this argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on for one more reason. In addition to all the above, it is that we have one principled problem that is being passed through this law, which is that the law is not precise. So we can't talk about things that can be the subject of arbitral judgment such as an important contribution and appropriate compensation etc.. So we can talk about coffee, and if we want to make laws then they must unequivocally define the material rights that come from them for those to whom they apply. Therefore, I do not agree with the explanation provided, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60107	29th Amendment of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60108	The amendment is not accepted. It is not about the slip, it is about the obligation to comply with this provision with the provision of the Article. 1st century 2nd and Article 2nd 2nd century of the 2nd century.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60109	In the name of the club, respected representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60110	We're asking for an amendment to the vote. We're staying with the amendment, we've given you a chance that it may be a failure, but right now we're just looking for a vote after your argument which is totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60111	30th Amendment of Representative Miroslav Škora.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60112	The amendment is not accepted. The questions referred to in this amendment shall be settled in an appropriate manner by the provisions of Article 1(1). 149th, Art. C.E.240/C.E. 306th century 5th. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60113	Mr. Scoro, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, welcome. Dear Secretary of State, so I'm listening very carefully to this all together and this is one of my own, at least as far as I'm concerned, and the branch that I belong to, the crucial laws where you are as Secretary of State and Mrs. The Minister, the entire government and your ministry had a historic chance to do something that was white-headedly clear. You're actually going to be looking for something that isn't there, especially when it comes to the music industry. You have finally been able to fix an irregular situation in which actors, journalists, music performers, music authors, the creative industry as a whole, which is the engine of this whole story, and you persistently reject the possibility of helping creative people because they are in an unbalanced position, and that was the intensity, so in some way to deprive them of all that has been done wrong for centuries. You continue to protect those who can multiply something and continue to protect those who can sell it to someone else continue to protect those who de facto own some kind of machine or distribution chain are and are in a privileged position. The only way that, when it comes to this particular article, to do something, I'm telling you as an author, performer, discographer, founder of some organizations, doctor of science who spent 10 years of his life is to translate that individual part into a collective and turn it into an unrelenting fee sooner or later, and technology will show that I was right, it will happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60115	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? Amendment No. 31 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs. [[Intruder Škoro: Looking for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60116	The amendment is not accepted, artists are not co-authors of audiovisual work, cannot have the same right to terminate the contract as co-authors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60117	Here you go, Mrs. Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60118	We'll ask for a vote on the amendment. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 139, the preceding articles, which apply those provisions to performers and, where not explicitly, if the artists are not particularly defined or do not come from the legal nature of the artist's rights. This provision should be extended to Art. 95th, as our amendment predicts. Namely, in Art. 95th, the main co-author, other co-authors and contributors shall have the right to terminate the contract and shall reserve the right to compensation if the producer of the audiovisual work has not completed the audiovisual work within five years of the conclusion of the contract or if the completed work has not notified the public within two years of the completion of the work. We need to consider this a right to extend to performers artists because they too have spent their time and invested their skills, energy, talent and authorship in the preparation and realization of unfinished and unannounced audiovisual works. And now I just see how right I was, I thought I was exaggerating in emotion, really wondering why the Ministry of Culture doesn't like actors? And now I'm angry. We stay at the request for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60119	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 32 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60120	The amendment shall not be accepted, provided that the contract is not otherwise specified, in view of the binding principle of contracted freedom. The artist of the artist who decides to make the compensation collectively can also achieve the same result by failing to conclude a contract on the exploitation of performance with the phonogram manufacturer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60121	Mr. Fabianic, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60122	... the contract laid down, and here our amendment is chosen only by a way in which the right to compensation or collective law or an individual contract will be exercised. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60123	Are you asking for a vote? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendment No. 33 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60124	The amendment is not accepted. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 149th, a compromise solution that regulates the issue of contracts by exploiting music art performance on the Internet is the main issue of the dispute between artists and performers and phonogram manufacturers with regard to the adoption of this law. The provisions of this Article shall, in accordance with the provisions of Article 1(1), be read with the following adaptations: The 18th Directive under which, in implementing the principle of payment, the appropriate exchange of compensation to performers for the exploitation of their artistic performances in national law, Member States may freely use different mechanisms, taking into account the principles of contractual freedom and a fair balance between rights and the interests of the parties. It was also taken into account that the contractors' directive recognises as generally a weaker contractual party than phonogram manufacturers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60125	Mrs. Gamulin Raukar do you want to do it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60126	I can't hear either of you. I'm sorry if I'm old. So we're staying with this amendment. The microphone's working, it's not about the microphone. [[Or maybe the microphone doesn't work I don't know.]] It's what you mumble about. [[And I'm not going into this, I'm not going into this second.]] Okay. This amendment requires that we delete those words in St. 1. in order to achieve the principle contained in Article 1. 18. Directive 2019/790 and this principle must apply in all relations between the performer and the phonogram manufacturer when the contract is concluded. It is the principle of appropriate and proportionate compensation that performers have the right to receive in each application of their performances and which is the key principle of art. The 18th Directive. In addition, this amendment further implements the principles contained in Article. 18. Directive 2019/790 and those principles must be changed in all relations between the performer and the phonogram manufacturer when the contract is concluded and we consider it necessary for those principles to be clearly expressed in the text of the law. Furthermore, it is necessary to establish the status of a phonogram producer as a user in the light of all the provisions of this law concerning the rights and obligations of users as such in order to avoid any other interpretations. In addition, it is necessary to establish the basis in the total collected fee by the phonogram producer to which the shares will be calculated for those contractors that do not have a contract-regulated relationship. Since section 4 and 5 of the new numeration provides that performances that are not regulated by law will have to be protected in the collective protection system should be regulated in which way that fact will be determined and that the minimums in order for the same fact to be uncontested, for example, the identity of parties, recordings, year of issue should be determined. those defined clauses [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]] fees for which not to enter.../Speakers speak at the same time./... but clauses relating to.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Radin: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60127	Can you hear me now? All right, you're asking for a vote. You're asking for a vote, aren't you? That's right, well, thank you very much. [[Raukar Gamulin's intruder: That's right.]] Don't just time, keep in mind how much time you have. Mr. Vice President Miroslav Škoro, amendment to Art. 149. ... The 34th Amendment, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60128	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons are given in addition to the amendments under No. 30 and 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd say it like this, given the fact that you refused an amendment to an article. 136, all these amendments after that simply don't make sense for the simple reason that they've been working out possible changes. 136. In particular, this applies to this article. 306 so here I am, in order to help the course of the debate, I am withdrawing all these next amendments, there is absolutely no reason for them because they have no foothold in this first article and I note that in those 3 years you will give and which in principle you provide the possibility in, in some way, of phonogram owners, where I own a phonogram and about 8 thousand pieces, is that, in these negotiations with performers, try to force some contracts because I repeat, contracts that can be made by phonographs simply do not exist and that database still has the best worked HUZIP, and I believe that the wrong message has been sent to the public so that, I do not know, this copyright situation, i.e. performing rights that would be obtained by following musicians, in some way, it was lulling the doors of the fat geese, HUZIP or some collective collection of money for the company is not currently obtaining any money. So nothing is a percentage of anything, and of something, so of course people have to get it. Here, so I'm pulling all these amendments, no more need to waste time around it, thank you very much, I'm sorry it's all expensive like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60131	We're getting word of it. You're not asking for a vote on all the other amendments? .../ Intruder: I'm not looking, there's no need, why take time, electricity and... /.../incomprehensible/... this amendment No. 35, Agent Davor Dretar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60132	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is given in addition to the amendment referred to in number 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60133	He's gone, so he'll vote on this amendment. SDP representative club, Art. No. 36 amendments to Art. 167.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60134	The amendment is not accepted. The concept of journalistic authors is broader than the idea of professional journalists and photographers, and the proposed amendment of the provision is proposed. The 167th century 1 is unclear. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The provisions of Article 167 shall be implemented. 15 The Directive relating to the right of the author of works included in information publications to the share of revenue received by the publisher of information publications for the use of their information publications by the information society service providers and the copyright part cannot be achieved independently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60135	Thank you very much. So he'll vote. Excuse me, sir. Yeah, yeah, sorry, yeah, yeah. [[Intruder: Dear Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60136	We insist on the amendment because it is precisely this article of the law that is one of the most important of what is required of the EU directive, but also, the EU directive has left the domestic legislation to regulate these relations. As defined by the Proposer, de facto leaves what income is possible from online editions, goes exclusively to the publisher, and to the journalist, perhaps, if and for this reason we wanted what is the objective of the Directive, and otherwise, the law is called the Copyright Act, not the publishing rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60137	You're asking for a vote, of course? Let's move on. HSS and Workers' Front's Club of Representatives, 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60138	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is given in addition to the amendment referred to in the number... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60139	Here you go, ma'am. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60140	So the title of the proposed article is unwarrantedly restrictive because it covers only journalists and journalists, not those journalists and photographers whose works are an integral part of the video content, and for this reason it is necessary to change it. The proposed article makes it impossible for journalists and photojournalists to achieve their own fee already forcing them to do so, forcing them to exercise their rights exclusively through publishers. With this legal solution, journalists and photojournalists will be completely left without any compensation unless the publishers for any reason exercise their right to do so. In doing so, the reasons for such a thing can be different, and journalists and photographers cannot influence them at all, so we will insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60141	Thank you very much. 38, ma'am. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60142	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is given in addition to the amendment referred to in number 36.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60144	I do not accept the argument, and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. I mean, this whole procedure is completely pointless. You've received our amendments, decided not to accept them. When you accept it, you say accept it and it's over, and when you say you don't accept it, we give you an empty explanation because it's probably never happened in history that something changed, so I don't know what the meaning of these conversations with ourselves is, but obviously we all persist in this play. I can only conclude on this trail that this whole attempt, which is present from most of the opposition, that journalists, not only of the names, but also in the practice of the law that will be realised by their material rights, are indeed experiencing as authors, failed. That is why they will remain dissatisfied, for this reason we will remain dissatisfied, and I must note that our dissatisfaction is not the result of any links with journalists or, God forbid, of giving up to journalists, but of a deep awareness that society as a democratically cannot function until journalists strengthen their rights that will enable them to step forward independently of the publishing policies, which are essential precisely in the crucial moments of creating our future. To make it simple, if the journalist is truly protected as an author then he will write about Todorovic throughout his economic activity in Croatia, not when the Agrokor affair comes and the whole system has collapsed. And that is why it is important to strengthen these rights and to deal with journalists as authors, and here we have witnessed only one unheard performance and unfortunately this time we have failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60145	Thank you. Thank you very much. 39. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60146	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. Amendments to the Green-Left Block Representative Club shall be accepted in accordance with Article 1(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Article 183(2) of the Final Proposal of the Copyright and Related Rights Act shall specify technical devices in such a way as to explicitly specify the types of technical devices to which the provisions relating to which the payment of the fee referred to in Article 1 shall be arranged. The 183th century 2. However, in order to comply with the provisions of the related articles. 183 and 184 shall be complete, in addition to Article 183 and 184. 183. in the amended section 2., as well as in section 2. ... the words ‘sound’ are replaced by the words ‘tonic’. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60147	- Mrs. Crescent. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60148	I'm deeply moved by the acceptance of the amendment, the tears are coming to my eyes. I'd be even more moved if you'd considered performers, if you'd considered actors, yes, I'd wait. that you've considered journalists and journalists. [[Intruder: No, no, okay]] I really appreciate this acceptance, I'm deeply touched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60149	I'm touched too. Then let's move on. You agree, yes. [[You agree?]] You agree to no, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60150	No, we accept yours and we won't, we won't ask for a vote on this amendment. Yeah. [[Subject from bench: Accept it in modified form?]] What? Yeah, yeah, in the changed one. It's just about formal changes, yeah. [[/Intruder: Do you accept it or not?]] I'm so touched...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60151	Let's, well, round table, round table on that amendment is over, let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60152	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60153	A representative club also green-left block, no. Amendment 40.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60154	The amendment is not accepted. The terms and conditions used in this provision shall be in line with the terms applicable in the current Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and the provision shall be implemented in accordance with the provision of the Article. 3. a directive which explicitly refers to mining for scientific research purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60155	- Mrs. Crescent. Raukar Gamulin, this one is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60156	We'll stay with this amendment. So our explanation is that the research organisation is a broader concept and includes organizations that are involved in scientific and artistic research. This is especially important when mentioning the components of the university because they can also be the art academys as you know the components, e.g. Zagreb University. This is also in line with the terminology of Directive 219/790. The proposed change in scientific research also includes artistic research and is appropriate and necessary in the context of copyright. The research organisation is a broader concept and includes organisations that are involved in scientific research and art research. We'll ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60157	SDP representative club, 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60158	The amendment is not accepted. Catalogue of law in art. It shall comply with the provisions of Article 218(1). 149th final draft law and other relevant provisions. The amendment shall not implement technical training but shall amend the content of the provision. 218. Contrary to the provisions of Art. 218. 419.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60159	Here you go, sir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60160	Dear Vice President, we are of course to insist on this amendment because we must become a European state and we must have certain things regulated by either a bilateral contract or a collective agreement and we cannot run away from what is the principle of a regulated state. And when we talk about concrete examples often called upon by the Proposer, this provision is specifically taken over in principle by German law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60161	Thank you, too. You're asking for a vote, of course. 42. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60162	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation has already been given in addition to the amendment under No. 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60163	- Mrs. Crescent. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So our argument, since we believe that the amendment is important next, is about technical grooming. In particular, the above-mentioned and established obligations for the exercise of certain rights in the collective system are not at the same time introduced into the article itself, which contains only the catalogue of the collective rights where the obligation to share the contents of the university collective is transferred to compulsory collectively to comply with the Article. 17. Directive 219/790. In addition, the said obligation to collectively exercise the right to act to the public for all recorded performances which are not duly regulated by the agreements referred to in Article. Article 149(4) requires provisions on the compulsory collective exercise of such right and an appropriate provision. We're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a nice vote, a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60165	No. 43rd Representative Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60166	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is given in addition to the amendment under the regular No. 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60167	The amendment will be voted on. 44th has been withdrawn. 45. It's the Center and Voice Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60168	The amendment is not accepted. The introduction of an information publication fee when it is given to members of the public for use in places such as catering facilities is due to the introduction of a new related right of the publisher of information publications in accordance with the provisions of Article 165, with the appropriate delay of application until 1 January 2023 and to the expected economic recovery from the crisis caused by the pandemic of Covid-19.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60169	Thank you very much. The amendment will vote. Representative Darko Klasic number 46.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60170	The amendment is not accepted. On the basis of the experience of other Member States, it has been assessed that, in the case of a publisher of information publications on use, it is mandatory for the use of information society services to collectively exercise rights is appropriate.../incomprehensible/... a solution that ensures legal certainty for both the rightholder and the user of the subject matter of protection. The EU acquis provides for a mandatory collective achievement for individual copyrights or related rights, resulting in such a way of exercising the right not being contrary to EU rules. The Directive does not prohibit the rights of the publisher of information publications with regard to the use by the information society service providers being exercised in the system of compulsory collective exercise of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60171	The amendment will be voted on. Number 47. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60172	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That provision shall also take due account of situations where the contract is concluded neatly with one of the participants of the artist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60173	Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60174	Thank you. I'm not sure I understand you, but I'll repeat our reasoning. We remain with the amendments, since it is prescribed that compulsory collectively, in accordance with the rules of collective protection organisations, the rights of those contractors that do not have a contract are exercised and their rights are charged by collective protection organisations in a proportion of parts are necessary to establish the basis for the calculation of such proportion of the fee that the manufacturer collects primarily from the commercialisation by means of the internet to that part of the fee relating to the artist's rights from that part of the fee relating to phonogram manufacturers. It is only then that within that part of the fee that belongs to the performers, the ratio between the contractors with contracts and the contractors without a contract where the collective protection organisation must be obliged to adopt the relevant rules on the distribution in view of the contribution of each individual contractor to the recording. The same thing must apply to those performers who have chosen to make a fee collectively in accordance with the proposal set out in Amendment 13 of ours, so I am talking about the right to vote. We believe that this statement is more precise in that sense and we re-prove for the rights of the performers that you have so brutally disregarded in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60175	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60176	We stand by to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60177	Okay, vote of course. Representative Davor Dretar, 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60178	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons given in addition to the amendment are given under regular number 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60179	The amendment will be voted on. 49th has been withdrawn. Fifty. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60180	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes an amended title corresponding to the content of amendments not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60181	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60182	We will still ask for a vote on this amendment. So, we believe that this title, which we have proposed, is part 8 of the special provision in Croatian on Croatian audiovisual works in Croatian cinema, the archives of HT and Croatian HRT programs, is simply better suited to the content that follows that title. And so we stay at the voting request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60183	Also Green-Left Block Representative Club, 51.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60184	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment proposes an amended title corresponding to the content of the amendments not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60186	... Articles of copyright in television works, audiovisual parts whose original archival material is found in the archives of HRT, which were created before 1990. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Again we say the same reason, that title better corresponds to the content of Article 301 and we stay with the amendments, we ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60187	Also Green-Left Block Representative Club, 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60188	The amendment is not accepted. The provision regulates issues of property, copyright and related rights regarding the use of audiovisual works contained in the HRT archives and does not regulate issues of concern, restoration or revitalisation of cinematographic works. There is no concept of television work in the field of copyright regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60189	Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60190	... We stay with the amendment, we ask for a vote, it's about technical grooming in our amendment. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Namely, the already stated and established obligations for the exercise of certain rights in the collective system are not at the same time entered into the article itself which contains the catalogue of rights which are collectively realised, where the obligation to share content from the university, collectively, is that something I read wrong, no, that is 52, yes, yes, from the achievement of Article 301, I am wrong, it is necessary to exclude audiovisual cinematographic works that are very important whose copies are found in the archives of HRT. A special institution should be authorised to take care of these works. In fact, HRT has neither practice nor resources for the restoration and revitalisation of cinematographic works, nor has it been authorised so far, nor should it be authorized to promote, distribute cinematographic works. It was also necessary to introduce in paragraph 3 a provision on the obligation of the HRT to inform the public of the list of acts referred to in paragraph 1 in order to provide, in good time and in full, evidence of the memory or possession of the right to do so. This amendment is considered extremely important, we are sorry that you have neither read it to the end nor understood it nor wanted to accept it. We're staying at the request and we're asking for a vote, a vote, whatever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60191	53rd, also green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60192	The amendment is not accepted. The provision regulates property, copyright and universal rights issues regarding the use of audiovisual works contained in the HRT archives. With regard to the institution of cultural heritage, the relevant provisions of the law shall be referred to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60193	Here's Mrs. Rakar Gaumilin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60194	Thank you. This article therefore determines the competence of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre for Management, using the rights of cinematographic works stored in Croatian cinema. This was necessary because the preceding amendment accepted Article 301 was narrowed to television works only. We're staying with the amendment and we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60195	54th, also green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60196	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is given in addition to the amendment under number 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60197	Mrs. Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We stay with the amendment, we ask for a vote because this amendment is necessary because of the changes we asked for in the text of Article 301. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60199	55th, green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60200	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation was given in addition to the amendment under number 52.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60201	It remains with the amendment, we are asking for a vote because this amendment is necessary for the same reason in 54 because, due to the amendments made in the text of Article 301 for which we have also submitted the amendment and we are asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60202	56th, green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60203	The amendment is not accepted. The provision constitutes a compromise solution in relation to the resulting increase in HRT operating costs financed by public funds or revenues from monthly fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60205	We're staying with the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60206	57th, green left-block Uh-huh. [[I'll be right back.]] Then you have 2 minutes, you have 2 minutes. [[I've got 2 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60207	Thank you, I'm sorry. So, the simple explanation is that we consider it appropriate that the re-emission fee except for the main co-author belongs to other co-authors as well as artists. So again here you ignore not only actors performers of audiovisual works, but you also ignore authors. I am deeply convinced that here and the Constitutional Court will have something to say because it is simply impossible for you to narrow down an audiovisual act on an author so-called. Chief Co-author, you've made up this new term phenomenally for the directors. Because we all know, that's how you watch movies, who you see there on that screen. Do you see the main co-author? No, you see some people, they're your actors. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60208	57th, green-left block.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60209	The amendment shall not be accepted in the light of the provision of Article 304(5), the purpose of the proposal is unclear, the addition of a new provision relating to the same arrangement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60211	We're looking for a vote on the amendment. The introduction of this new model of re-emission fees for audiovisual works cannot challenge previously agreed rights to re-immit fees to the main and all co-authors of audiovisual works as well as artists of performers. It's a pity that in the past, we are artists performers and by you so-called. coauthors mean writers, writers, music authors, cameramen, installers had their rights that were guaranteed to us now the Ministry of Culture that even acquired the rights that we have with our contracts take away. I think these will be good-looking questions for the Constitutional Court, too. Thank you very much. We're staying at the code, with the amendment, and we're asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60212	Thank you. 58th, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60213	The amendment is not accepted. Chapter 2 is detailed in the scope of the law and as regards the application of the phonogram manufacturers, it is referred to the provision of Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60214	Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60215	We are, of course, insisting on this amendment because this is about authorial works, and with this addition, we are de facto and internationally protecting Croatian copyright works. Invoking, of course, Directive 593 of the European Parliament and of our law, Article 23, paragraph 24 and 25. The law on international private law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60216	Thank you very much. Representative Davor Dretar, 59.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60217	The amendment is not accepted. The reasons given in addition to the amendment are given under regular number 58.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60218	They'll vote on the amendment. SDP representative club, 60.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60219	The amendment is not accepted. A period of 3 years to comply with the contract with the new law is an appropriate time limit which is common in mandatory relationships and takes into account the number and time scale of the contracts to be revised. The reduction of the deadline could call into question the equal opportunities of all performers to conclude the contract in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60220	Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60221	Thank you. We insist on this amendment. The reason is very simple or we'll solve something within 6 months, if it doesn't work out then collective law applies, so there's a solution. What was the dilemma over the deadlines was next. Of the many, then, apart from the authors, the authors and performers told us that the system was messy. Those who would engage, whether it's about publishers or biographies, etc. they claimed that the system in the past had been arranged. To give a three-year term means that until yesterday, unfortunately, we had chaos in that area, so it's a recognition of anarchy in that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60222	Thank you very much. Mr. Davor Dretar's representative 61.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60223	The amendment is not accepted, the reasons given in addition to the amendment are given under regular number 60.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60224	They'll vote on the amendment. Mr. Darko Klasic's representative 62.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60225	The amendment is not accepted, for a period of three years to comply with the contract with the new law is an appropriate period which is common in mandatory relations, as we have already said, taking into account the number and time scale of the contract to be revised. Shorting the deadline could call into question the possibility of an artist to conclude a contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60226	The amendment will be voted on. Center and GLAS Club 63.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60227	The amendment is not accepted, Art. The retroactive application of the law is not prescribed, but the alignment of the contract with the requirements of the new regulation due to the significantly modified circumstances of the exploitation of the artist’s musical performance on the Internet, while all acquired rights of stakeholders or contracted forces remain intact in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 205th and St. 3rd. It shall be indicated in accordance with the provisions of Art. In the implementation of the principle of payment of adequate and proportionate compensation for the exploitation of artistic performances in national law, Member States may freely use different mechanisms, taking into account the principle of contractual freedom and the fair balance between rights and interests. It was also taken into account that the contractors' directive recognises the less contracted party as a rule than phonogar producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60228	This amendment will be voted on. 64 is withdrawn. 65 Mrs. Caroline Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60229	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is given in addition to the amendment mentioned under regular number 63.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60230	The amendment will be voted on. 66 withdrawn. 67 Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60231	The amendment is not accepted, given that, in large part of this law, the provisions of the applicable Copyright Act and related rights are maintained, it is not possible to carry out a meaningful assessment of the effects of the law as a whole but possibly of certain new legal solutions that are being introduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60232	They'll vote on the amendment. 68 MP Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60233	The amendment is not accepted, it is in the interest of interested parties to have a more recent regulation of their relations in accordance with the requirements of the new regulation and there is no purpose in delaying the entry into force of the provision in question. It will start when the appropriate conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60234	Thank you very much. No more amendments to this law. It is now time to review the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Electronic Media Act. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, MP Marija Selak Rasdic, MP Nino Rasdic, Green-Left Block Representatives' Club, SDP Representatives' Club, Zeljko Pavić's representative, Centre and GLAS's club, MP Eric Fabianić, HDZ Representatives' Club, Davor Ivo Stier's representative, Katarina Peović's representative. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, also State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Media Mr Kresimir Partl with us, and he will in fact explain the ministry's position on amendments. The first is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60350	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60351	2nd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60352	The amendment is not accepted. In the event of a breach, the Art. 14. The Council for Electronic Media cannot initiate proceedings or impose measures since the infringement of this Article is punishable under the provisions of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60353	You want Mr. Fabianic's explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60354	We insist on this amendment because one is a criminal prosecution, and one is the determination of the situation, so I see no reason why we should withdraw that amendment or consider it in accordance with the law. ...we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60355	Three and four says here they're identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60356	And another addition, when we talk about criminal acts of me to justify the miracle of the HDZ amendment that de facto erases the condition that a member of the Telecommunications Council may also be the perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60357	All right, all right. Noting that 3 and 4 are identical content, I'm now asking the Green-Left Block Representatives Club if he wants to explain? Here you go. [[Intruder Raukar Gamulin: Absolutely.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60358	So, we consider and stay with that amendment, we ask for a vote. So, our argument is that it's related to the article. 14. We propose that the legislator commits the Council to define criteria for self-initiative action and action, or sanctions, in the event of a breach. 14. The law on electronic media. In this way, the Council will be able to make better decisions regarding infringements. 14. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60359	Thank you. It is also an identical amendment to MP Zeljko Pavic and will also vote on the amendment. No. 5th is the amendment of MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60360	The amendment is not accepted,... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. and presents a clear provision regarding the prevention of discrimination. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60361	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60362	... This article shall apply from 2009 to the European Parliament and to the Council. in this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. So a provision that I quote that "audivisual media services are forbidden to encourage, to favour the spread of the ideas of fascist, Nazi, communist and long totalitarian regimes is primarily inconclusive since 2009. I wonder how many times you've had something to do with this, and it's certainly gonna open up a series of disputes. No wonder it's in 2009. inserted into domestic legislation, that is important information to you because it was in 2009. and from conservative circles in Europe, the resolution that equits Nazism and fascism on the one hand and communism on the other hand is important to note that Nazism based on a criminal idea is a regime based on racial laws, I guess it is necessary to repeat. A criminal order from the very beginning, while Stalinism, which should actually be apostrophe here, has been equidistant with communism here, detached from the communist idea of a better, fairer, unclassified society that has never been implemented... by the country. I would like to know how this article will be implemented since Graz won the elections recently, which has a communist name, whether we will stop reporting elections in Austria because of the totalitarian regimes. She would point out that this item is inconclusive in the... article I am very interested in whether it has ever been implemented in any way, and in any case it stems from a very reactive, reactive ideology that is mainly spreading from those countries where we are increasingly experiencing a lack of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60363	Okay, so you're asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60364	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60365	Okay. And now it's number one. Six amendments to Mr. Rasputic, Nina Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60366	The amendment is not accepted, the item in question has also been applicable since 2009. and presents a clear provision concerning the prevention of discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60367	Here you go, Mr. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60368	The explanation is not satisfactory, that something was wronged in 2009. That year, the Nazi regime was abandoned, and along with communist and fascist stand nationalist, so the 2009 law concluded that Nazism is quite fine, and nationalism is as problematic as fascism and communism, so it is no argument. Birth identity expression as you put in four articles of this law is a subjective feeling about your own generation, subjective feeling independent of sex and as such subjective feeling cannot predend to objectively legal norm... It's about an uncanny, anticivilizing subjugation of the foundation of society about an anthropological irrational experiment where you expect people to think that if I come tomorrow and say that I feel subjective as a woman that my chairman is speaking to me in a woman's generation, and a portal that criticizes it or even someone in a comment on the portal is paying a fine of one million kuna. I don't know why you're pushing it, who's pushing you to do it, but this is completely irrational and I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60369	Thank you very much. With no problem about it, it was in the Italian Parliament, you know better than I do. Seven. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60370	The amendment is not accepted, but also termology since 2009. and there is no need to change because... a legal woman and men is one of the fundamental values of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60371	Here you go, Mrs. Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60372	We will insist on the amendment since the terminology used in this indent is not consistent with the terminology used in the rest of the law and it should be brought into line with the European and national anti-discrimination laws and directives to which this law is called, and therefore the terminology proposed by the amendment corrects this particular lack. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60373	Thank you very much. It's a Fokus representative club and independent MPs' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60374	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60375	Thank you very much. Also no. 9 The Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60376	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60377	And no. 10 MPs, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60378	The amendment is not accepted, it is a provision relating to the prevention of discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60379	Here you go, Mr. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60380	Again the same explanation, asking us to have someone's subjective feelings that can be like this or that we recognize as objective reality in the phasing down rationality, the rationality of human relations science as such which is clear chromosomi xxx... that I do not further explain to you. That trip to the west has already led to some painful consequences, leading to the abolition of women's sports as such. We already have examples in the Australian handball team of my 2m-and-100kg biological man who plays with women and regularly beats them, we have in martial arts already beating and beating women, we have a case in England where a man has just just expressed himself born as a woman has ended up in a women's prison where he's been raped and abused, so I see from this Law of Discrimination through the Istanbul Convention to what you're doing now that you're going to go through this paved road that someone has ordered you to do, and whose consequences will first end in the problems for women that we see today in the West, and what a whole current of feminist today is rebelling in the same way that I do today. So the argument is not accepted and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60381	You made yourself clear. Legislative Committee 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60382	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60383	Number 12. It's a Fokus representative club and independent MPs' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60384	The amendment shall be adopted in an amended form so that paragraph 3 reads: ‘No advertising of political parties, coalitions and independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and from members of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government selected from the list of voting groups except during the election promotion under special regulations or special regulations governing the implementation of the elections.’
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60385	Mr. Zurovec, it's not on, it's on now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60386	Thank you. If you can just explain to me if this after the consultation might be with the DIP, then you've come up with these changes, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60387	Accepts, so the amendment has been accepted. Green-left block representatives club, 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60388	The amendment is not accepted. This is about the transposition of Article 20. Audiovisual media services Directives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60389	Here you go, Mrs. Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60390	We also consider this amendment extremely important, we will remain with him for a very simple reason, because we believe that the total duration of the block of advertisements that interrupts the programme for children cannot last longer than 5 minutes. We all know the reasons very well. We're looking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60391	Thank you. 14, Focus and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60392	The amendment is not accepted. The purpose of this article is to include free of charge messages and humanitarian actions are not allowed at the time of advertising.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60393	Here you go, Mr. Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60394	... All right, it's getting late. So here's first of all a clear explanation means it's unclear and contrary to the spirit of the bill's proposal actually prohibiting the broadcasting of messages that promote fundamental social values, especially as the said ban is set in the form of a formal condition for obtaining a solution to the approval of collection when humanitarian aids are involved. [[Specially enabled.]] Encouragement of fundamental social values is actually one of the intensities of us as legislators, not something that should also be limited or social values are in any way limited primarily to collecting humanitarian aid. Now, this very word for free that you have stated is in one hand unnecessary in this provision because the paid broadcasting of humanitarian character messages that are not supported by the law of the prescribed solutions should not be exempt from regulation through this law. And just to avoid broadcasting messages from fake humanitarian aid collectors. Here we remember a few years ago when we had a situation that a man here was gathering help to help him and then went to Turkey for a trip with his girlfriend. So it's the urgency to stop that part, that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60395	Are you asking for a vote? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60396	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60397	“ What Is It? ”? 5 / 15
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60398	The amendment is not accepted. The purpose of this article is to ensure that broadcasters of radio and television at local levels, as well as electronic publications, are provided with advertising from means of secure budgets. By eradicating this article, it becomes questionable how much of the resources provided in the budgets would be directed at local publishers and electronic publications, as publishers at national level have far greater reach, and thus also a priority in advertising.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60399	Number 16, Advocacy Club I'm sorry, Mrs. Peovic, please be my guest. [[I'm sorry, I can.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60400	So what's this about? So that's what the Croatian news society warned about. Advertising state authorities and public companies in commercial electronic media is advertising, which in most cases is a different name for corruption. When we talk about this, it is not a matter of excessive assessments whether we take into account the very well-known Fami Media affair where public enterprises and public authorities transferred local media to the most frequently fictitious advertising of public money which was later used for election campaigns of HDZ or private consumption of its leaders. What HND, the Croatian Journalist Society suggests sounds extremely excessive, which is that funding should be implemented through public support. We don't see the reason, we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60401	Thank you very much. 16, Center and Voice Representatives Club, extremely complex this amendment, too bad there's no one here. Here you go, Mr. Partl.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60402	The amendment is not accepted. It shall be coordinated with the share of the total weekly programme to be dedicated to the notification of news and information in the area of concession. I point out in particular that the 10% stake was prescribed by the 2004 law when most publishers failed to broadcast 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60403	It's a shorter answer than the amendment. We'll vote on that amendment, study it. Representative Katarina Peović, 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60404	The amendment is not accepted. The answer is also as well as the amendment under regular number 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60405	Here you go, Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60406	So here's the problem with the legal solution again. In the final draft of the law, there was a reduction in the obligation to publish news and inform local radio and television from 10% to only 4, 5 or 7% of their programme. So that's how it's proposed in Article 42. What the news society emphasises is certainly true that it will cause great damage to those living in local areas, whose local elections are the main, local media major sources of information. And besides reversing their information, the informative quality of local and regional media will also reverse, and what is particularly dramatic will result in job losses. Journalists' jobs in the local community. So here was the proposal of the Workers' Front to increase the percentages from 4, 5, 6 and 7 to 8, 10, 12, 14. I think that's important, and we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60407	Everyone lives in local areas. Everyone lives in local areas, I say. Representative Davor Ivo Stier, 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60408	The amendment is not accepted. This Law does not specifically clarify the concepts that are governed by other laws, too, in subst. 9th century 2 has already been prescribed other top values of the constitutional order, which includes this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60409	We'll vote on that amendment. Mr. Nino Rasudic, Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60410	The amendment is not accepted. This encourages development... Discontinuation of discrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60411	Here you go, Mr. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60412	I'm not satisfied with the explanation. Forced people by law to recognize someone's subjective sense as an objective reality leads to complete disorder in society and the breakdown of any rationality. That I'm saying that I'm not a man in 45 but that I'm a Japanese girl of 8 years and I'm asking you to admit it as an objective reality, I really don't know what's going on and how you're feeling right now. Is it a special feeling to bother men and women in Croatia through the proposal of these laws? Where did you get that? What are you pushing this for? I see that counsel Stier tried to insert something, what was on the trail of HDZ's famous interpretative statement when you pushed the Istanbul Convention, is now showing that critics were right, that this is just one step further in this total irrationality. So I ask you to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60413	HDZ Representatives' Club, number 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60414	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60415	Representative Katarina Peović, 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60416	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed right to offer challenges legal uncertainty, and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has set out exactly the conditions for the two-thirds majority elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60417	Here you go, ma'am. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60418	That's a lot of words in the debate, and if you haven't accepted this amendment, then maybe it could have been solved differently. But what's for sure is that we have to agree that the big problem is the dependence of the media on political structures, especially at local levels, that we all live at local levels, but the thing is that we also need to think locally, is, as it reflects on these local levels. The decision to depolitise the Council for Electronic Media by, therefore, or by proposing, as put here, that the largest professional organisation proposes its 2 members or that members be elected by a two-thirds majority or both, would certainly contribute to some depolitisation of that Council. Anyway, when you have a different way of choosing, if it's not choosing two-thirds of the majority, then you come up with party personnel in that Council. In order to avoid it, it could mean maybe something different, I agree, but this was one, I think, a valuable attempt. We'll ask that one to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60419	Green-Left Block Representatives Club, 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60420	The amendment is not accepted. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also stipulates in which cases decisions are made by a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60421	Here you go, Mrs. Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60422	I didn't hear you, but good. So we will ask to vote on this amendment, we think it is important because it ensures that HS appoints and resolves members of the Electronic Media Council on its own. We are now witnessing an unimaginable situation in which the Council of Electronic Media has persistently refused to recognise that a concession has been unlawfully awarded, that the document has, however, refused to take the concession, as provided for by the Law on Electronic Media, which already takes weeks, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing nothing. It should propose a resolution of members of the Council who are simply acting against the law, and therefore we believe that these powers should be transferred to the Assembly for which we are, in some ways, hoping that he would react more quickly and more readily to such a scandalous situation, I dare say. Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60423	You already said yes. Thank you. 23 has been withdrawn. Twenty-four, Mrs. President. Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60424	The amendment is not accepted. The basic criteria are laid down by law and the details of them are discussed by the Council by means of a sublaw.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60425	We'll vote on that amendment. Legislative Committee, 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60426	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60427	26, Mr. Nino Rasdic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60428	The amendment is not accepted. The item is in line with the relevant stakeholders between 2 readings and is considered to be a positive improvement of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60429	Here you go, Mr. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60430	I'm not satisfied with the explanation. This isn't any positive shift, this is the introduction of censorship, more specifically the inciting of autocensorship where portals that can barely survive anyway are mostly at risk of a fine of 100,000 to millions of kuna for something that is inviolable to the new dogma you impose. He'd rather erase his own comments than risk such a fine. The law is a minimum of morality, in one normal human community such things are self-regulatory. The issue of hate speech in Croatia is a forced, fictitious problem, we have all the statistics very precise, these for 2019, show that in Croatia very few hate crimes and judgmental hate speech, all of which is sanctioned by other laws and the Ministry of Culture and the media really shouldn't be involved in hate and love, being the Orwelovese "The Ministry of Love". In addition, comments on the portals are difficult to determine the limit of freedom of speech, which is not enough expression of love or expression of hate. Psychologically speaking, some people, these comments can also be used as a kind of valve, by closing these communication media, will not solve the problem of hate but will flow through other channels, such as social networks, or if we manage to prevent it completely, expression of hate, that does not mean that we will solve it, but without these valves will probably threaten a different, worse escalation. So, this is completely unnecessary, portals should not be responsible for content generated by users, speech should not be controlled in Croatia we have no major problems and I will repeat this once again, this is all about the introduction of censorship, more specifically the promotion of self-censorship and I will ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60431	Thank you. Representative Erik Fabianić 27.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60432	The amendment is not accepted, and also this item is in line with the relevant stakeholders, which are the Association of Publishers of the Press and HND and we consider it a positive improvement compared to the first text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60433	Here you go, Mr. Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60434	Here I am insisting on this amendment for the reason that this amendment de facto restores the provision to first reading because the current positive practice, and it also proves to the court and shows that the publisher must be responsible for the whole content. What you say about the relevant stakeholders in this particular case means perhaps succumbing to clientelistic relations between the authorities and the publishers, and we must not forget that the HND is not an exception either because most of the people who are journalists are working with these same publishers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60435	Thank you very much. The number 28 representatives of Zeljko Pavić are the same content, so there is no need to explain the proposings, not the amendments, but the law. No. 29 MP Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60436	The amendment shall not be accepted in respect of a violation of the provisions relating to the Article. Paragraph 2 of the 21st century, which suppresses discrimination in audiovisual commercial communications.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60437	Here you go, Mr. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60438	... under the threat of sanctions and punishment for someone to feel as subjective as he admits absurdly as an objective reality is the most possible discrimination ever heard of in Croatia. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] Among other things, it is the avoidance of freedom of opinion, the acquisition of science and objective truth, freedom of speech, and if you want religious freedoms in Croatia. I have argued here during the debate that the portal that would be published by the apostolic initiator of liberal Pope Francis "Amoris laetitia" in which he disputes and criticises the gender ideology that you are promoting here and pushing further into Croatian legislation that such a portal risks a million kuna fines. Is this the creation of a legislative basis tomorrow and for the persecution of Christians in Croatia, you think about it. I'm sure you're proud of everything you're doing. I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60439	Green-left block club 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60440	The amendment is not accepted, it is a regulation which the Council cannot pass since it is a violation of Article 2(2). 14. The prescribed punishment under the Penal Code can only be decided by a court.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60441	Here you go, Mrs. Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we're not talking about the Penal Code, we're talking about self-initiative conduct, very clearly. We're staying with this amendment. It is in line with this amendment with our first amendment, which we have also remained in, which provides for the adoption of a regulation that contains provisions on criteria for self-initiative treatment and behaviour in cases of application of an infringement. 14th of this law and therefore we believe that this amendment is necessary and we are asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60443	Thank you, too. And finally no. 31 MP Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60444	The amendment is not accepted, and the explanation given in addition to the amendment under the ordinary No. 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60445	Okay. We're done, so we can go. One, two, three, four, five, six, go and breed. Tomorrow morning at 9.30, says the secretary of the session according to plan, whatever that means. The session was interrupted at 7:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60878	We are now going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 99. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, amendments were submitted by representative Ruzica Vukovac, representative Marija Selak Rasdic, representative Zeljko Lenart, SDP Representatives' Club, Green-left bloc Club, HDZ Representatives' Club, Centre and GLAS's Club. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic mail. I ask the President of the Proposer to be shown about the amendments submitted, the Honorable Secretary of State, Tugomir Majdak. First of all, Amendment No. 1st representative of Maria Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60879	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, at EU level, a single provision that regulates the seed of its own from the holding does not exist, but each Member State regulates the mentioned problem on its own, I present several examples, Ireland and Cyprus have a mandatory seed sowing, Lithuania subsidized the seed of certified seed, cereals and potatoes while Hungary and Belgium apply a similar model proposed by the law in question. At this time and according to current legislation, the use of seeds from the holding is without control or the quality of such seeds as well as the presence of diseases, weeds and harmful organisms is not known, and unfortunately, it is also often the subject of illegal trade which is not permitted by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60880	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60881	So they're going to ask to vote on the amendment. So what we're looking for is to get into art. 3.St. 1st point 3 is deleted, we have now been able to listen to a statement on amendments that things have to stay that way since they are in the eu directives, although we haven't heard the exact quote in the eu directives, which is why the MPs are justly revolved. And now we've been listening to the reverse argument, this is not in the eu directive, which is, of course, my main argument, but right now, we've decided to sort our legislation out on our own, so we're going in some other direction than Europe, and in a direction that I personally don't consider good for our seed producers. What's this about? First, the opening conclusion was that there were large discussions on this law and that fortunately because of the high media and our parliamentary pressures, the minister really changed a large part of the law by removing many disputed provisions. However, one more step is needed to make further progress so that we really have a consensus on this extremely important law. What's this about? This concept does not exist in any of the existing eu directives, as I have said, which is otherwise the main argument except now, which is, therefore, arbitrarily regulated by the area of seed farming by the marketing directive, the Seed Act applies exclusively to commercial use and the seed market, the bill regulates seeds from the agricultural holding which explicitly prohibits placing on the market. As a result, this concept and any provisions relating to it should be deleted, farmers do not carry out business exploitation of seed for the production of seed for the market but only agricultural production activities for the purpose of placing on the market farmed food products and therefore, the activity of seed farming from the holding cannot be identified in any way by the activity of seed companies. So, they'll be asked to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60882	Thank you. Amendment No. Two MPs of Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60883	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60884	My colleague Vukovac is gone, so we're going to have to vote on that. Amendment No. Three representatives of the Centre and the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60885	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant shall remain on the proposal that the Ministry of Agriculture shall keep registers of authorised and reference laboratories. The Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food as the competent certification body through which surveillance of laboratory work is carried out under international protocols and could, in that case, be in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60886	In the name of the club, respected representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60887	So this amendment actually wanted to make one decent hygiene of this law. What's this about? If the agency keeps a record of all other things, then it would be logical for the agency to run a register that's related to the labs. What I have to admit, and that's that you as a bill promoter have made one effort between the first and second readings, but this would be done by the end. So it's the ministry that makes the solutions, the ministry is that it rejects the requirements for enrolment of laboratories, the ministry is that it will continue to make a solution when someone does not meet the conditions. But if the agency is running a record and all of this, then it would be logical for the agency to run this book. But for what basic reason the surveillance of the labs is done by the agencies, and now that she's going to do surveillance, then it's going to be halo bingo, calling the ministry, asking the ministry for a list and doing surveillance. You yourself will, as you have already transferred this entry from the ministry to the agency at this time, the register relating to the scale of the law is run by the ministry, and you have decided to transfer it to the agency, which is where you explained that you will have four employees, okay, we will see what happens, but then it makes sense that all the registers are run by the agency. You gave up that logic was easier for you to refuse the amendment than to get into the matter. You'll get to that on your own, so you'll probably do that through some law change. You should have just listened a little bit and done so and it will be easier and simpler for you, but we are where we are and therefore I ask the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60888	Amendment No. 4 Representatives of Marija Selak Rasdić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60889	The amendment is not accepted. As no proposal to delete the provisions on seed from the holding is accepted in Article. 3. point 3 of this Article. The 17th Amendment of the Law cannot be accepted by eradicating art. Article 12(1)(a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60890	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60891	So, I do not accept the argument and I will ask that this amendment be voted on. Therefore, if it is sufficient for the manufacturer to possess machines for cleaning and calibration of seeds, the aim of such processing is not to reduce quarantine plant diseases, which is to provide guidance as the main argument of the introduction of such a regulation but rather to reduce the spread of weeds and seeds of a more quality seed which should not be imposed as an obligation. So let me repeat, the objective of these amendments is simple, given the changes in the laws that came to the second reading, we see that the ministry has seen the gaps that have been ignored in the debate during the first reading of the law. Since it has already admitted a mistake, I do not see why it would not start again in the direction of dialogue and cooperation and respect the other demands of our small farmers dealing with the production or cultivation of seeds, so we have indeed one quality Seed and Fruit Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60892	Amendment No. 5. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60893	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60894	It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. Six. The Center and Voice Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60895	The amendment is not accepted. Since a proposal is not accepted for the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food to take over the management of the register of authorised and reference laboratories, it cannot be accepted to delete the Article. 13th century 8, as well as amendments to the other items of Art. 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60896	In the name of the Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60897	Thank you very much. I will ask for a vote on this amendment as well. Of course, this has to do with what I've already explained, so at a time when the Agency for Agriculture and Food is running a register, then all this other stuff should have been put together. So it took us at the club relatively and a little time and energy and effort to put it together and maybe make it a more efficient way to work the ministry or agency. You have very easily rejected that amendment and have not entered the whole story. This amendment has nothing to do with either, nor with the wording, so these two amendments only have to do with making some basic hygiene related to this law and doing something basic, the way you're going to manage this whole problem to know exactly what the agency is doing, to know exactly what the ministry is doing, to see where the department's competences are, where the Agency's competences are. You haven't made the slightest possible effort to understand what I'm talking about, but I think you understand what I'm talking about, that you might sit down a little bit and see how you make your job easier, but that's exactly where a ministry's job stops, and where the agency starts and ends. And that's what you should see and do. So, you've decided very easily to reject that amendment, and I have to repeat this and that, I'm really deeply convinced, it happened to me not once, that in one six months or a year with those same things you come or become aware that this would make it easier for you to manage, but what's here is. Like I said, I'm going to beg a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60898	Amendment No. Seven. Green-left block representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60899	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant shall remain where it is proposed that all agricultural producers whose total production area of certain groups of plants, i.e. by-products, olives and wild plants do not exceed 7 hectares, which is therefore the conclusion at the level of the commission, and in line with most of the stakeholders. Therefore, they cannot be excluded from the obligation to complete seeds from agricultural holdings, which is also the result of the yield of these cultures, and respecting the guidelines of good agricultural practice related to fertility. In addition, through the tender, the Ministry of Agriculture will provide funds for equipment for agricultural producers that will therefore cross this 7-hectare border to provide additional equipment through eu.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60900	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60901	Thank you. So we think that this 5th sub-assembly is inaccurate and confusingly shaped, that it is necessary to specify that each agricultural producer can sow different cultures within the same plant group, which means that they can shine up to 4 surfaces by the logic of the quadruple. This would especially help cattlemen who cannot pay expensive livestock food, and for this reason we have asked, we have asked for this amendment to be adopted and to bear in mind that a large number of OPGs are processing significantly less areas than these specified in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60902	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60903	Excuse me, we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60904	Okay. Amendment No. 8th Representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60905	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant, as well as the previous amendment, remains on the proposal that all agricultural producers whose total production area of certain groups of plants, I repeat strep grains, olives and wild plants do not exceed 7 hectares, shall be excluded from the obligation to complete seed from the holding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60906	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60907	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm sorry that the promoter is short-sighted, that he doesn't see the geopolitical and geostrategic situation that's happening in the world. You don't see what's going on in England right now. These would be gold reserves that would allow economies of up to 30 hectares that are on the verge of survival on which the family can live are very vulnerable to earthquakes and fall very easily or will advance. This would help them if they could get through a certain part with their own seed and in case they can't find the amount of seed they want on the market, and here it's about olives, especially soybean which for special climates needs to look for special hybrids in order to adapt them and to make sure that the grain is harvested in standard quality because the drying of soybeans is extremely expensive. The promoter simply doesn't see, it gives a partial possibility to use the farm seed, so it's not diseases, we've allowed the potato producers to leave all the quantities themselves, so at this point the small installers are discriminated against and simply because, here's a real reason why they're not allowed these 10 acres. When we get to the seed earthquake, then I'll remind you of what we've been looking for. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60908	Amendment No. 9th Honored Representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60909	The amendment is not accepted. Where the exemption from processing in question is deleted, only seed of vegetables, potatoes, feed plants, tails and plant species listed in the variety list of the Republic of Croatia as preserved varieties or varieties developed for cultivation under certain conditions would be included. In addition, the varieties listed in the other varieties lists referred to in Article 53(4) of this Act, agricultural producers entered in the register of organic, local and non-species varieties and not protected from application rights, and all producers of foreign cereals and olives and wild plants were obliged to carry out the production of seeds from the holding, which is not the aim of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60910	Dear representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60911	I will ask that this amendment be voted on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law does not clearly define whether the provision applies to the total area on which the economy produces those cultures or exclusively to the area that is sown from its own seed. It is therefore necessary to further clarify that the quantities of a particular culture from its own seed are concerned in order to avoid in practice different interpretations and indifference of implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60912	Amendment number 10 of MP Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60913	The amendment is not accepted. Explanation as well as amendments 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60914	The amendment, MP Vukovac is gone, so we have to vote on it. Amendment number 11 of MP Rose Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60915	The amendment is not accepted. In the absence of a proposal to delete seed provisions from the holding referred to in Article 3(3) and in Article 17 of the Law, it cannot be accepted to delete Article 18(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60916	There is no Vukovac, so we have to vote on it. Amendment number 12 of Maria Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60917	The amendment is not accepted. In the case of natural seed to be used as seed from the holding, it is sufficient to have a document on the origin of seed from the holding which means that it is necessary only to indicate the holding on which the seed is produced and the amount of seed concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60918	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60919	Speaking, I'm not accepting this explanation, and I'm asking that the amendment be voted on. By talking to relevant associations that were also your partner in the adoption of the final draft law, it is clear that it is necessary to leave out the provision that it is necessary to possess a seed origin document from the holding because it is not sufficient for producers and since the whole production rests on their enthusiasm to generate additional and unnecessary costs and administrative obligations. Therefore, we ask that Article 18 of the fourth paragraph should be amended, the seed supplier registered for the production of seed should be able to produce natural seed if a record of official control and the conviction of the recognition of crops has been issued for that seed. So, I'm going to ask that the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60920	Amendment number 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60921	The amendment is not accepted. That item does not need to be further regulated because the term supplier in the law in question is defined in such a way that it is a legal person or a natural person engaged in one of the following activities, maintenance, production, processing, placing on the market and importing agricultural reproductive material. The term supplier of the law in question covers all concepts, manufacturers, producers and suppliers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60922	Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60923	Thank you, dear Vice President. I don't think this article of the law would mind if it was written by a manufacturer and a seed farmer, which would make it clear that they were responsible, too. I know about this interpretation of the supplier, but in possible court proceedings, however, it is questionable what will happen. After this adoption of this representative I will officially ask you to interpret the word supplier which we will always use somewhere, so when it will be a problem we will have an official interpretation. If he won't give me an official interpretation of what you said today, then that's your problem. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60924	Amendment number 14. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60925	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60926	And it becomes an integral part. Amendment number 15. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60927	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant's intensity in this article is to carry out a full review of the entities listed in the registers so far. In fact, there are currently around 2,500 subjects listed in the registers of suppliers, samplers and laboratories. However, about 500 of the subjects enrolled are active. Such behaviour is to obtain the real state of the subjects involved in one of the prescribed activities. Of course, there is an opportunity for the entry of new entities. The same procedure was applied when the new Law on Plant Health was drawn up. So today, the re-entering process is under way in the register of specialized subjects and the setting up of the same register.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60928	On behalf of the club, respected representative Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60929	Thank you. We are looking for a vote on this amendment in the future on the basis of the proposed Article 88, all suppliers, laboratory leaders, samplers, and it is 100 people that have to go through the re-entering process in the registers, with the presentation of a bunch of documents simply because the legislation is being amended. Unnecessarily, it is a powerful administration, and the question arises: Why don't the scribes just stay or just the contents of the scribes don't move into a new form? In addition, on this example, it could be demonstrated that certain transactions for economic operators by the state administration can be carried out on an official basis at no extra cost and with as little documentation as possible, and therefore it is proposed to delete Article 88. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60930	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60931	And we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60932	Representative Marija Selak Rasudić has proposed a meeting to draw conclusions that you have received in writing. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to be shown about the proposed conclusion. Your honorary secretary of state, that you accept the conclusion or do not accept the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60933	Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture in the construction of laws and sublaws shall establish working bodies for the making of proposals, regulations involving representatives of farmers, scientific communities of producers and associations. All interested parties were involved in the construction of the law in question and will apply the same in the future production of legal and sub-legislative acts. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia is in accordance with Article. 26b. Directive 2001/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001. on the deliberate introduction into the environment of genetically modified organisms and repealing Council Directive 220/90 of the European Parliament and of the Council declared an exemption for GMO cultivation for the whole national area. In the Republic of Croatia, there is no genetically modified agricultural reproductive material as well as production of the same for commercial purposes, either in the form of Polish experiments, and zero tolerance for introduction into the environment of live GMOs is in force. We also point out that the proposal for a seed law does not restrict the exchange of seeds or that no commercial use of seeds has been limited, although the European Commission on the study of Union options to update the existing legislation on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material stressed that marketing directives do not allow the exchange of material between farmers. The provisions of the law in question protect agricultural producers and ensure the use of quality and healthy seed material. The Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food performs the certification of seeds and fruit material through the procedure of official control of our production, processing, packaging, filling and labelling of agricultural reproductive material. The certification of agricultural reproductive material is one of the forms of quality system for which agricultural reproductive material is intended to be placed on the market to control and monitor to ensure that the end-user meets all the information indicated on the packaging or certificates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60934	Thank you. Time's up. You don't accept. [[Intruder Majdak: No.]] Dear representative Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60935	So I'm going to ask, of course, that conclusion is being voted on because I didn't understand at all why you didn't accept it. Before I say what the conclusion is, it is necessary to say why it is necessary and why I expect other representatives to vote for it. In fact, the whole process of passing the Seed Act was painful and difficult with a uncertain outcome, it was most difficult for Croatia's producers and seed growers who had to put forth extraordinary efforts and their own resources in order to make the lobbying and alarming of the public aware of what the problem was in the first proposed law and that only then would something change be made in a way to be relatively but unfortunately not absolutely satisfied with the other bill. It is precisely because, in the future, it would not have to be difficult and unequivocally lobbying in this way to obtain any result to be passed on to the Croatian public, and even more to our producers a clear and unequivocal message about what our agricultural policy is and what our state-of-the-art interests are because agricultural policy is inseparable, therefore the proposed conclusion says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is in debt. And regarding the announced change in the EU legislation on the placing on the market of seeds and other reproductive material, plant health and GMOs after the adoption of future agricultural policies and laws resulting from them as well as the possible amendments and additions to the Seed, fruit material and recognition of agricultural plant varieties, it is mandatory to respect the views of the farmers themselves and not to create rules different from those of other countries in the environment in order to place our producers in an unequal position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60936	Thank you very much. So you're asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60940	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. Before we move to the agenda and the Law on the referendum on today we will remember our colleague and former president of the Croatian Parliament Boris Šprem who passed away 9 years ago, 30 September 2012. Mr. Šprem was a dear and esteemed colleague among the representatives of various political options, during his life he acted on a number of responsible duties, and the premature death unfortunately interrupted him at this very place of the President of the Croatian Parliament, so I ask you to pay tribute to Boris Šprem - A moment of silence – May eternal glory be to him and thank him. Dear colleagues and colleagues will now go as we announced, first point - Proposal for a referendum law, first reading, P.Z. the number 183 is proposed by the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Self-Government, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Before I give my word to the Minister of Justice and Administration, the respected Ivan Malenica, to give an additional explanation of the bill, you have already been contacted by several I assume the requests for a break. First order of business, fellow coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60941	Thank you, Mr. President. This proposal for a referendum law is a step in the right direction. This should be said, it should be clear about this, and this bill is followed greatly by the unadopted proposal prepared by the SDP in 2015, which is why we in the SDP support this proposal in our first reading. However, we will now say the same thing we said in 2015. This change isn't enough for itself. Without a change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, where we will clearly define that there are certain topics about which no referendum decision can be made, such as minority rights, especially their reduction this will not be good. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues take this opportunity, I am using the fact that you are the ministers here to call for a consensus on the need to amend the Republic of Croatia Constitution in the section relating to the referendum decision-making. I know that any process of amending the Constitution of the Republic brings itself numerous challenges, but if we agree that there is something that we can reach an agreement on, then now is the right time to do something wrong. To correct the provisions of our Constitution that allow referendum initiatives aimed at reducing the constitutional rights of our fellow citizens, only because they are in the minority. Unfortunately, we have too often witnessed such initiatives, let us take advantage of this moment when it is obvious that there is a will in the Croatian Parliament to fix something that we really do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60942	The apartment will be approved. The second one's a colleague of Zekanovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60943	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I request a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes to consult further on this bill. The key question is whether 10% of registered voters in the Republic of Croatia will need to be collected in the new bill, and the answer will be yes. So, all this proposed by this new bill are changes in cosmetic nature, because today it is necessary to achieve a referendum to collect 3 million, pardon, 370,000 signatures, given that there are about 3 million and 700 thousand voters, and this is extremely difficult in Croatia and you know it, and also the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic knows. So it's extremely difficult. What you also know, and your party objected to former Minister Bauku, that no voter lists were arranged, and neither did you. So, there can be no voter in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps more than there are citizens. How small the difference between the number of voters and the actual number of inhabitants in Croatia will only show us the population list that is currently being made. So, I invite you if you really want to make it easier for Croatians and Croats to change the laws, to change the Constitution, by direct will through the referendum, to reduce the number of signatures that need to be collected to come to the referendum. And from this place, I'm also ordering colleagues to the coat of arms instead of fending some kind of concern for minorities, let them better deal with their party, patch up all those holes through which the water enters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60944	Okay, and this break will be approved. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60945	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute Most Club. A referendum or direct democracy, these changes, you ministers literally recognize that the stolen referendum "People decide" where the Tribals mean to call it, where the ministry you run, stole, spit in people who bought the signatures and also for the Istanbul Convention. So any referendum, direct democracy must be made possible at all levels equal to what you do not do with these changes. Here I am, the mayor of a city that has 25,000 inhabitants, telling you that it's very difficult to collect 20% of the signatures, very difficult. Why wouldn't we already have a national referendum at the state and local level, what's the reason? So let's look at ourselves in a much older democracy, an example of Switzerland. Why should people not decide in smaller places, municipalities, local committees on important questions of a referendum? I'd like to do it myself. As for the list of voters and the population there are huge i.e. voters, it's huge are manipulations, we should also edit it because direct democracy and referendum is not a game, it's the will of the people, there's no one right to play as this government has played with the referendum "People decide" where even today they haven't shown what these signatures are wrong in that case. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that the referendum must be the same at both local and national level. I claim it as mayor that it is impossible literally to carry out this referendum and list me a constitutional referendum that has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60946	Thank you. The apartment is approved. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60947	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also looking for a 10-minute break in order to reiterate once again that the law that the government has sent to the first reading in the parliamentary procedure is excellent, that it is comprehensive, that it is complete and that it addresses this problem in an appropriate manner. It enables transparency of the open procedure and openness of the referendum procedure, allowing for a stronger impact of citizens on decision-making in the Republic of Croatia. But what we need to know is that the government in the assembly can only refer to a law that is in accordance with the constitution. Indeed, if that were not the case, it would not be possible to come to the HS agenda, and therefore they are justified and legitimate and the proposals made by Mr Grbin, so that it would be good if the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribed the weight of questions which cannot be questioned in the referendum. It is legitimate what Mr Zekanovic says, and that is to reduce the number of citizens who propose a particular presidential initiative, but all of this requires a change of constitution. So we can't talk at this point about this law being bad, it's in accordance with the constitution, and it can't be different. We can talk, we can also talk about amendments to the constitution, legitimately I said this a little while ago, but the fact is that from the experience I know and a few years ago during the SDP government when Ivo Josipovic was president was also launched an initiative on the change of the constitution. I believe that many of you agree and remember that through the process of amending the constitution, and given the need to get 101 votes here in HS that after that have multiplied the many initiatives that have then stalled... The constitution. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this is the law we adopt, and the amendments to the constitution when the time comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60948	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Let's move on, colleague Oreshkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60949	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Center Party and the GLAS Party of 10 minutes to point out the fact that this draft law harmonizes the area of the referendum with the 2010 amendments to the Constitution. So it took more than 10 years for the Republic of Croatia to raise some basic issues that actually encourage direct democracy in line with what we have come up with in the constitution, and today we are already talking about that neither the provisions of the constitution are precise enough and clear enough. No doubt this law offers and brings certain improvements, but overall it does not live up to the demands of the digital age. In fact, we have witnessed that in past referendum initiatives the most difficulties were in collecting the necessary signatures and checking their validity. Since we have a lot of mentions of the word digitisation in the NPOO and a whole series of other strategic documents, it is not clear to me why we did not allow the collection of signatures by electronic means in this law and why, at least in the referendum, we did not decide to go through an electronic vote. Thus, this law actually lags behind the times in which we all live together and once again did not bring this direct democracy closer to the citizens so that it could be available and easily implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60950	And another request for a break, colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60951	So here I am, on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF, looking for a 10-minute break to directly democratically discuss this proposal legally as a representative of the only direct democratic party in Croatia that conducts a referendum democracy in its party, means we are really using electronic tools and I must say it is not too difficult to reach some conclusions so that you do not have a president and a presidency, perhaps we would not even be able to come up with any situations in which some other parties are now, so we can really simply ask about everything membership, so we can also ask about all the people who live in this country. What we are interested in and what we would like to think a little bit more about is why it means a referendum meaning constitutionally, the constitutionality of the referendum issue does not question before the need for a number of signatures that are really large or why there is no smaller quota that is needed before the question of the constitutionality of the referendum issue is asked. This would avoid the enormous disappointment of those who have collected all these signatures, and their referendum question has not been declared constitutional, in any case it would strengthen the status of a constitutional court that would thus give its opinion on many issues which could later be adapted and applied to several different, different issues. Therefore, our opinion somewhere is that, in addition to what we agree, it may be necessary to collect the signatures electronically and apply the constitutionality assessment of the referendum issue before the necessary number of signatures are collected, however large, it would have to be reduced. But like this, we have a lot of disappointed people after the referendum issue has been declared unconstitutional, now the question is whether or not we should change the Constitution. In any case, the Constitutional Court should be some kind of arbiter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60952	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60953	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club to consult again on this important legislative proposal. I would say that for a long time we can observe that in Croatia citizens feel certain alienated from their political representatives. There are more reasons for this, I think that one of the important causes of this situation is that the electoral law allows MPs to be elected so they feel more loyalty and duty to their own parties that determine electoral lists than voters who choose them. We know that mandates are not directly obtained, but on the basis of lists and citizens simply feel that MPs generally do not represent their interest to the extent that they would like to and that is why we have many referendum initiatives. And unfortunately, what we have seen again are those initiatives welcomed on the knife, we do not need to repeat this we know what effort has been made in these recent initiatives to ultimately declare all former Minister Kuščević invalid and similar. So, we have an unacceptable situation where mistrust with institutions is quite high and therefore it is important to hit this law well and to enable in all ways to actually facilitate people to express themselves through a referendum because while generally state-of-the-art changes, and this will not happen overnight we have this possibility that citizens are free to organise themselves and the Homeland Movement is certainly to encourage, facilitate, and not in any way make it difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60954	Thank you. I'll give everyone you asked for a break by 10.00 p.m. exactly. It's 9:48 a.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.01 HOURS]] I will now ask the Honorable Minister of Justice and the Management of Ivan Malenica to give an additional explanation of the proposal for a referendum law. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60956	I would like to thank the esteemed president of HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The referendum is considered a fundamental instrument of direct or direct democracy, as voters directly decide on political issues of public interest. The referendum is extremely important for the spread of the democratic foundations of political decision-making at the state and local level, but also for achieving a democratic, political dialogue in society. In order to meet its democratic purpose, the Institute of Referendum must be properly regulated by law and adequately dimensioned in accordance with the Constitution. This is the fundamental and most important assumption without which a referendum in a democratic society based on the rule of law and the protection of human rights cannot get that role in political awareness and activation of citizens and strengthening the civil awareness and social responsibility that is originally and intended for it. The law on referendums and other forms of personal decision in the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government was adopted in 1996 and has since been amended and amended three times, i.e. three more times with decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, as I said, has therefore three times abolished certain provisions. The existing legislative framework in many cases is unscheduled, especially when it comes to national initiatives and procedures that precede the decision-making of the HS to call a referendum, but also issues such as referendum activity and the monitoring of the referendum. And the Constitutional Court has repeatedly warned that a stable normative framework of a referendum procedure that meets the standards of democratic society needs to be ensured. This proposal for a law on the legal area of the referendum fully aligns itself with the Constitution, removes the shortcomings and indeterminates of the applicable Law, ensures transparency and openness of the referendum procedure, the more effective influence of citizens in making political decisions. The legislative proposal also enshrines recommendations from the Venice Commission and individual solutions from other European countries with special experience in implementing the referendum. As far as the state referendum is concerned, a state referendum is being organised in this bill. Art. 87. The Constitution provides for 3 different referendum initiatives, depending on who initiates the referendum or initiates the initiative and draws up the text of the referendum issue. No matter who calls the referendum itself. Legal arrangements had to respect the legal personality, the specificities of each individual initiative, and the proposal needed to regulate them by making them clearly different. It is precisely the indistinguishability and absence of the development of each of those referendum initiatives that the weakest points of the applicable Law are, and this bill removes these shortcomings. The proposal specifically sets out provisions relating to the national initiative or the calling of a referendum at the request of at least 10% of voters enrolled in the register of voters residing in the Republic of Croatia. The current law lacks systematic processing of the part of the procedure carried out only in the case of national initiatives, covering a period related to the collection of voter signatures, as constitutional assumptions for the opening of a referendum of the People's Initiative. The very fact that this period in practice is referred to as pre-referendum and that the activities carried out in that part of the procedure in practice are referred to as pre-referendum, suggests that the concept of a referendum of the People's Initiative in force in the Law, which is why in practice the wrong impression is created that it is not an integral part of the referendum process. The relevant paper proposed refers to a body which would be competent to carry out all the actions related to the record of the referendum initiatives in respect of the procedure for determining the number of validity of the signature and which, in this case, in this Act, the jurisdiction of the DIP. So it's the body that implements these activities that are related to monitoring the referendum initiatives. This proposal proposes that the voter declaration procedure on the need to request that the referendum be called for for a total of 40 days, it is on each organisational committee to determine within the prescribed 40 days, how long it will take for it to collect signatures, and how long it should take to prepare the signed papers for handover to the DIP, where part of the procedure relating to voter signing should not last longer than 30 days. So the deadline for the signing was extended from 15 to 30 days to now. Also, for the first time, the Institute of Referendum Issues is systematically edited. The DIP will examine formal legal compliance of the referendum issue with the provisions of the law, and the constitutionality will continue to be decided by the Constitutional Court in accordance with its powers. It is also defined as considered a valid signature. Therefore, in the current law there is a complete lack of provisions governing the procedure and deadlines for the submission of signed lists and requests for the publication of the HS referendum, as well as the jurisdiction and procedure for determining the number of eligible voters' signatures. The law also lacks full provisions governing the legal protection procedure in the part of the referendum process of the People's Initiative that precedes the decision to call a referendum. The proposal also includes recommendations from the Venice Commission on political dialogue between the representatives of the Organisational Committee and the HS, which is implemented through the Institute of indirect and direct counter-proposal of HS. These instruments have been taken over from the Swiss legislation and adequately adapted to the Croatian legal framework. For the first time, the proposal also introduces a democratic instrument from the official manifestations of the competent authorities on the referendum issue of the National Initiative and empowers the competent authorities to direct their official position to voters. An indirect counter-proposal is a proposal that would include in the constitution the amendments required by the referendum initiatives. In this way, the objectives of the initiative would be achieved, but without holding a referendum. On the other hand, we have a direct counterproposal, it is a referendum issue of the assembly in the same thing as the subject of the referendum issue of the people's initiative, but under other conditions or different assumptions. In that case, a referendum would be held on this direct counter-proposal or if the National Initiative accepted it, and if the National Initiative did not accept it then a referendum on the referendum on the national initiative issue would be held at the same time a referendum on the direct counter-proposal of HS. Furthermore, for the first time, the proposal systematically regulates the area of referendum activity. The legislative concept of organised referendum activities has been adopted, thereby also legalising the fundamental principle of all referendum activities that advocates and opponents of the referendum initiative must have an equal opportunity to publicly express their opinion. For the first time in the area of the referendum, the proposal also legalises the institution to observe the work of the referendum authority, as well as the presence of representatives of the organisational committee and the committee of advocates or opponents when verifying the number of valid signatures. An important new part of the legislative arrangement of the referendum proposed for the first time by this law is the Chapter on the protection of personal data in the process of collecting voters in determining the number and validity of voter signatures and in implementing the referendum itself. Furthermore, an extremely important part of the legislative arrangement of the referendum proposed for the first time by this draft law is to regulate the post-referendum procedure relating to the implementation of the legally binding decision taken at the referendum. This proposal shall specify in detail the competence, procedures and deadlines for the implementation of decisions taken in the referendum in the latest legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The proposal also regulates the rules on the way they apply, which can be amended within the deadlines for the referendum, and which also differ on the type and legal nature of the acts concerned. As regards the local referendum, the applicable law does not provide an appropriate legal framework for the effective and orderly implementation of the local referendum, which has led to a number of doubts about the local referendum in practice. At the same time, the local referendum as a form of direct citizens' decision in managing local affairs has been arranged in Chapter 4. Law on local and regional self-government. The proposal regulates a number of issues that have not been explicitly addressed so far in relation to the local referendum, which has led to a lot of difficulties in practice. This proposal first addresses issues related to the local referendum initiative, the authorisation of the referendum issue, the voter's statement on the need to request the call for a local referendum, the identification of the number of valid signatures, the calling of a local referendum, and the establishment of a representative body's position on the national initiative's referendum issue. When it comes to a local referendum of relevant newspapers, it also highlights the extension of the deadlines for collecting signatures from 15 to 30 days, and that there is a reduction in the quorum of support, so that the local referendum will decide on the majority of votes that have joined the referendum, provided that the majority of the voters in that local unit have joined the referendum, while the current law prescribes that the majority of voters who voted on that referendum have been given access to the majority of the total number of voters listed in the list of local unit voters in which the referendum was called. The voter's permission to issue a referendum will be examined before the voter's signature to call the referendum is collected. This law also regulates an advisory referendum, which, which is arranged for a specific area from a state level through parts of state territory to one or more local units or only parts of a unit of local self-government. The advisory referendum is defined as a form of obtaining voter opinion on issues in which HS, government or representative body JLS decides. The text of this proposal includes all quality and constructive proposals and professions and trade unions and interested public and representatives of previous referendum initiatives, as well as political parties from the ranks of ruling and opposition. Following this, we expect a good debate, good proposals and support for the institute of the referendum to be properly arranged in the Croatian legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60957	Thank you, Minister. Now we'll start with the replicas, there are 19 of them, the first one's for a colleague, Zekanovic, here you go. Please, someone's turned on, to shut down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60958	Here we go, okay. Minister, I've already asked you a question at the stop, I'll repeat it. If you intend to revise the list of voters in the Republic of Croatia that you know and the Croatian public knows, it does not correspond to the real state. And second question, will you try and pass this new bill that you claim is better, here by emergency procedure, today is the first reading, let next Wednesday be the second reading, that the initiative "Protect Croatian Kuna" supported by Croatian sovereigns can hold a referendum under the new law. Or perhaps all of this together may somehow have been staged by the government of the Republic of Croatia to slightly complicate the situation in view of this extremely important referendum initiative that has just begun. And I'll point out that we intend to collect signatures from October 24th to November 7, if we have to wait for you for seven days, but here, hurry up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60959	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60960	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question and your proposal. So today we have a first reading of the Law on Referendum I believe that even here on, in this assembly we will open a series of questions and suggestions that we will certainly discuss before the second reading. Here, one of the proposals is certainly to consider the possibility of an evaluation, a previous assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issue that my colleague, Peovic, seemed to have warned me and suggested. So we will certainly try to follow all constructive proposals during the period between the 2 readings and make one quality proposal that can certainly include an amendment to the Constitutional Court's constitutional law to resolve this institution's referendum as a whole. As for the list of voters, the Law on the Register of Voters, which we will certainly take into account when we prepare a plan of legislative activities and the need to settle this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60961	Let's move on, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60962	Thank you very much. Ministers of this law did not even a local referendum with national referendums. More signatures should be collected in Zagreb than the mayor of Zagreb received votes. I, as mayor of a city, would raise about 2 and a half thousand votes if it were 10%, so who would collect 45,000 signatures of people to call a very important referendum at local level, whether in my Sinj, either in Zagreb, or in Osijek, or in Rijeka. Direct democracy is important. The estrangement of us politicians whom the people choose on responsible duties is enormous. I'm asking you here because of the people that even at local level people decide this way, don't try to change the Constitution, put on 10% equate with national level. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60963	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60964	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as far as the local referendum is concerned, so this proposal of the law, now that we're working out this issue in more detail, and we're extending the deadline to collect signatures, and this regulation of the number of signatures to call the referendum is a matter governed by the referendum law. So here I believe that through this debate today, through the amendments, we will discuss that part and consider the construction of local referendums or signatures necessary for the opening of local referendums.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60965	Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60966	Thank you very much. Ministers have been injured by Article 238, because people need to know we don't need to change the Constitution, you can suggest in a second reading immediately to equalize the number of signatures in percentage, local and national levels because of democracy, because of the estrangement of mayors, from birth, and some people decide on important issues at their level either in Zagreb, Sinj, Split, Osijek, Rijeka. You can do it, there's no here as a colleague of Bačić just now [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] You need to change the Constitution, you don't need to. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60967	Comrade Bulj, thank you very much, you get a warning and please don't do this, this is a replica, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, colleague Antoliæ Vupra, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60968	Dear Mr. Minister, welcome is the required law, however, it did not allow again an electronic vote, although digitalisation was written in the government's programme as a direction. Given that some justification and possible manipulation, even though we know that citizens have now shown in a large number in self-recording how they can serve electronic media and e-Citizens with the highest level of credibility can truly provide a credible, credible way of collecting signatures for the referendum. If this is a greater threat at national level, why not gradually introduce this system in local referendums.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60969	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60970	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, we are aware of the fact that there is a public enthusiasm now after self-recording and a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been listed using the e-Citizen system. However, there is a control mechanism in this system and in this process, so we have censuses that will scan the codes for those citizens who have been listed. And also when we talk about electronic voting and electronic referendum, so we have currently the only country that is Estonia in the EU that uses such a model. We're also aware of the facts, we've seen in the US elections how much controversy has actually caused the results that were waiting for the basis of the electronic vote. So this continues to create certain issues, that is accessibility, security, but also the technical resilience of the system and potential controversy that can result from it. So I think at this point we're not ready to think about an electronic vote or an electronic referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60971	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60972	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the State Election Commission has received this law or a proposal for a series of competences to keep records of referendum initiatives, to examine formal and legal conditions of compliance of referendum issues with the provisions of the law. Whether the State Election Commission has actually administrative expertise at the moment, as well as the software capacity for all of this which has been placed in its jurisdiction in this proposal of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60973	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60974	Thank you, well-respected representative, so as you said, and I pointed out that in the introduction of the speech, so we are introducing the State Election Commission as a supervisory body that is responsible for monitoring the entire process of referendum and pre-referendum activity and we believe that this is a very good step in the referendum process itself. Therefore, the DIP is already performing certain tasks primarily related to the implementation of the elections in the event of the need to strengthen administrative capacity or in this part of the records of the referendum initiatives there is certainly something to think about and on the proposal of the DIP to strengthen the electoral commission and enable them to use these tools that will certainly facilitate their monitoring of this referendum activity given to them through this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60975	Let's move on, fellow Shimpraga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60976	The Honorable Ministers. This proposed law represents the first step in addressing the problem of the referendum, which we must insist on in order to remove the possibility that, in the future, we should repeat the situation in which most citizens, by means of a direct statement, question the rights of members of any minority, means that we need to change the Constitution and the constitutional law. I believe that the initiative itself can be fueled by intolerance, hate speech, and it would be good for the constitutionality of the issue to go before the signing, but also before the referendum campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60977	Before we answer, we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60978	Thank you very much. You've hurt your ankle. 238nd fellow Shimprag. You are part of the majority in the Parliament, you manage Croatia, you SDSS and HDZ and you can solve it all, you rule so that these warnings are pointless to me. You're the government, you're the majority. I'm an opposition we can SDP, I don't know the Centre, the Workers' Front, the Sovereignists, you're most It's up to you. [[Intruder President: Thank you very much, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60979	Comrade Bulj, you get, now you get another warning one you will naturally be punished by taking away the word, but please don't do it. You know very well that you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, any representative and representative may give their opinion, and that is why we are here. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60980	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS- Dear fellow MPs. Therefore, as regards the amendments to the Constitution and to the Constitutional Law, here can highlight yesterday's debate on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system where the report from that session of the Committee found that an amendment to the Constitutional Court's constitutional law and in this part of the previous assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issues would be considered, so before the referendum initiative begins with the collection of signatures that the Constitutional Court actually decides whether this issue is in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, it is the power of the Constitution to come from this Proposal for a Law on Referendum, and of course it comes from the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60981	Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60982	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Minister Malenica. Taking into account the history that HDZ governments have with the referendum initiatives today, the proposal is viewed by most citizens with skepticism. It's also interesting that right now we're talking about it in HS. This law comes at a time when an initiative has already been launched for the new referendum issue of Croatia's entry into the euro area and the withdrawal of some sovereignty from the referendum initiative protects the Croatian Kuna. The key question you have not answered is when and in what way do you plan to enter the necessary amendments to the Law on the register of voters and voters to make it easier for the Croatian people to declare their will?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60983	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60984	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as I replied to my colleague Zekanovic's list of voters and voters' register is not the subject of this law, so this law is only referred to in part of the number of percentages of signatures collected on the register of voters who have a residence or a list of voters who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia resulting from the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, the Law on the register of voters will be considered and the need to regulate or amend that law will be considered so that I would not now associate it with this bill of law that we are here before you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60985	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60986	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I think we're here in one contradiction, namely in the constitutionality of a referendum issue decided by the Constitutional Court, I think we're contradictory. In fact, the fact is that any change to the Constitution that would take place through the implementation and success of a referendum should be decided by the Constitutional Court, which, by its definition, should protect this Constitution itself. So, at the beginning, it's mandatory and I think it's reasonable to ask who has the right to decide on behalf of the citizens on topics that can't be called a referendum? I think we're in big trouble here. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60987	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60988	Thank you very much. So, the Republic of Croatia has been set up as a representative democracy where voters, by electing their representatives, decide on political issues, but also decide on a direct democracy based on the referendum. So, the referendum can be called on to amend the Constitution, the law on another issue, and it is the Constitutional Court that is the basis of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court responsible for assessing the constitutionality of the referendum issues, so that it is quite clear so that I do not know what you specifically meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60989	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60990	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister. You're a little younger than me, and I remember the first referendum in '91. where it was scheduled for Croatia to leave the former state, I remember the 2013 referendum. It's about a community of men and women that it's a marriage. The people always knew how to make decisions back in '91. and 2013 You don't need to be afraid of the people. In the breaks sought by the clubs before this debate I see that they are all complex to go into changing the Constitution, don't run away from it need to change the Constitution, it needs to be brought down to censorship, for example. of 100.001 voters to sign and to go to the referendum should not fear the people and his opinion whether the people always knew how to decide when to decide. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60991	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60992	Thank you, Your Honor, so this proposal we have here before you is consistent with the Constitution, in accordance with the Constitutional Law on Constitutional Court. Yesterday's debate on parliamentary committees, here is today's debate that raises the issue of amending the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court and the Constitution, so here I expect that this will be discussed in the coming days, and the concrete and parliamentary Committee on the Constitution is, as I have said, so I have proposed to move towards amendments to the Constitutional Court's constitutional law in this part of the previous assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issue. The government is not afraid of the Croatian people, so this government has the legitimacy gained in the elections. The referendum law, or this proposal for a referendum law, actually allows the voice of the people to be heard and heard through this form of direct democracy, so that there is no fear of the people or the will of the people, because I say this government has legitimacy gained in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60993	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60994	I would like to thank Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I can agree that the 20% census required voters to call a local referendum is really high, especially in large JLSs and large cities, as well as in medium cities, and certainly in units of regional or regional self-government. in the county. He does not seem to be too high for small JLS because he would practically satisfy that in some small municipalities, several families actually call or propose to hold a referendum and which should be held. It would therefore be good for a second reading to establish a graduation that would involve a certain censorship depending on the size of the unit of local and regional self-government. So here's what you should think about until the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60995	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60996	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as I replied to Mr. Bulju, so until the second reading, we will certainly consider and consider ranking the local referendum. I can agree with you that a certain percentage for certain JLS is too large, but it would clearly separate and differentiate the referendum on the recall of the local leader, a referendum that was regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government and has nothing to do with this referendum. So, the local referendum, the local referendum, decides on certain issues, which is the level of government, so here we will consider and consider today's debate when preparing a proposal for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60997	Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60998	Here is the Minister I am very pleased to hear that you will respect this objection that the assessment of the constitutionality of the issue is carried out before the very collection of the signatures, but art. 36th now doesn't define it that way. Another thing, Art. 36. defines that the Assembly may seek constitutionality or to check constitutionality of the referendum issue, and it would be good if it had to ask for an assessment of every referendum issue, as we have seen in 2013. when a referendum was held because the assembly approved the referendum on the definition of marriage to be conducted without an assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issue. And thirdly, there is no deadline for the Constitutional Court to decide on the constitutionality of the referendum issue. So, I mean, technically, you could postpone that referendum any time you want, so it would be important to determine maybe here for 30 days I think it would be better if the constitutional court didn't respond to the constitutional assessment, then the question is thought to be constitutionally effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u60999	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61000	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So all of this you have stated is to be regulated by the Constitutional Law on Constitutional Court. This bill of law that you have here today before you is in line with the current Constitutional Law on Constitutional Court. If the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court is to be amended and discussed, then it should certainly be discussed who can apply for a constitutional assessment of the referendum issue, whether HS, whether MPs, a certain number of MPs or someone else, that is one question. The second issue that should certainly be settled by the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is a matter within which the Constitutional Court must decide on the constitutionality of the referendum issue. It is a matter which cannot be subject to this law here but changes to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, but that is all the questions that should be considered and included in the amendments to the Constitutional Court's constitutional law, and I believe that here we will be based on yesterday's conclusion, and today's debate takes into account what you said and what we will hear here today about the authority of the Constitutional Court in the decision-making and constitutionality of the referendum issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61001	Thank you. Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61002	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Malenica, I would say that it is certainly good, useful and necessary to implement in this proposal the recommendations of the Venice Commission, i.e. an example of good practice related to the EU referendum. This law certainly significantly improves the legislative framework and very clearly prescribes the rules of the game, who, who, what and when he does, who is responsible for what the deadlines are, etc. Given recent folk initiatives when the signed lists contain data and signatures of both dead people and minors, even babies and foreign citizens, and when signatures are even collected on the hoods of cars, more specifically on the corner of Bosnia and Herzegovina's pillars, I wonder if this law will establish more control which is certainly necessary and transparency of the procedure. What's the big deal? [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61003	Thank you very much. Now we have two replicas, a colleague of Pavliček and a colleague of Grmoi, not replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61004	Dear President HS,... Art. In 238, counterpart Buric insulted all those volunteers who worked hard in numerous referendum initiatives in the rain, snow and collected signatures and accused them of being faked, and forgets that until a few years ago and the dead voted in the Republic of Croatia, so some did not mind and it was normal. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61005	So you know for a fact that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replication, so you get a warning. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61006	Injury. In 238, therefore, fellow Buric, you have accused the referendum initiatives for fraud and at the same time this government, the Government of Andrej Plenkovic did not want to give the club of the representatives of MOST signed lists with invalid signatures. If someone's manipulated, if someone's been cheating, then it's you, and it's not enough for you to spit all those people in the face of those 400,000 people who signed the referendum initiatives, now you're accusing them of who are who stole the referendums [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You're accusing them of manipulation. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61007	You get a warning from your colleague Grumo, also a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's time for a colleague, and excuse me, minister, the minister responds to the replica first, and then a colleague of Oreskovic will. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61008	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, i.e. MPs, this bill first regulates the Institute of Referendum Signature, so what all the signature must contain to be valid. So, you pointed out that we are introducing the State Election Commission as a competent authority that monitors the referendum initiative from the registration itself to the collection of signatures and checks of signatures itself, and that introduces clear deadlines within which the State Election Commission should act. It is also possible to observe the verification of signatures, and what I would point out is important for the referendum initiatives that this law introduces a commitment to the local self-government unit to allow places to collect lists of referendum initiatives without compensation. So there are a number of newspapers in this law that allow for greater transparency and openness of the whole process, as well as the protection of referendum initiatives, i.e. advocates and opponents, not only through the State Election Commission but also through the High Administrative Court. i.e. the Constitutional Court. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61009	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61010	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, therefore the accessibility of the referendum depends on how easily and how easily or accessible it is to collect signatures. And on the trail of what counterpart Buric, a colleague of Grmoja and all others who question the eternally present dead on the signed lists will go to the proposed amendment of the Centre and GLAS Club. So once and for all, we have to stop this practice that literally has on all the signed lists in all the election processes, and we don't need to run from it. And it's not always about someone's fraud or trying to cheat at all, it's about a process that's impossible to avoid. The signature of a dead person or a non-existent person may be tampered with by someone from the opposing team because the person who collects the signatures in general cannot verify the authenticity of certain data with his identity card. So, the electronic way to collect signatures would make it easier to speed up the collection process for those who launch the initiative and made it easier for the State to carry out the control procedure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61011	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61012	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So when we talk about electronic signature or electronic censusing and signing a referendum initiative, then we must always take care of our voters, our citizens who do not have access to modern technologies. So that possibility should also be left in that variant, the possibility should also be left with this classic way of collecting signatures. However, as I pointed out at the outset, we believe that, for now, electronic voting or electronic signature collection does not actually constitute, in fact, not giving such certainty that it could actually be done without any controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61013	Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61014	Thank you very much, President. Dear Ministers, I think this proposal really improves everything regarding the organisation and implementation of the referendum as the most direct form of citizens' decision. What I would ask is about the principle of territoriality, or residence, which must be respected in collecting voter signatures, which makes sense for questions of the local referendum. However, when organising a state referendum where it comes from the law that only one who comes to the Republic of Croatia can sign is asked whether it is possible and whether it could be organised in a different way for our citizens living abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61015	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61016	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, when drawing up this proposal, the ministry took into account the practice of the Constitutional Court and the numerous decisions made by the Constitutional Court on this referendum as well. One of the decisions of the Constitutional Court was also the principle of territoriality, and that decision found in fact that only voters were persons who had residence in the Republic of Croatia able to sign a referendum initiative. And certainly here is one question for discussion that we will certainly consider when drawing up this proposal for another, for another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61017	Comrade Mazhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61018	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, first of all, I'm glad we have a new bill, so we see complexity and what it wants to achieve. I am pleased to see today between 2 readings a consensus of all in the Croatian Parliament on the issue of increased protection, arrangements for the whole process, extension of deadlines. It certainly shows that just you as a proposer have done a good job of this first part, but what is important is emphasized by exactly the same and fellow Bačić to take advantage of between the two readings of the percentage needed by the units of local, regional and self-government and I think it is the building direction in which we should go. For what reason? The Republic of Croatia has 428 municipalities, if we assume that one of the smallest citizens has 137 inhabitants, and one of the largest Viskovo has 14.445 we see that the difference times 100. So in the smallest municipalities, in fact, 10 people can seek a referendum or 2 families, and for that very reason I believe we need a graduation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61019	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61020	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as I said, we will certainly consider the matter of the percentage needed to call a local referendum and consider this graduation, or the number of residents in a single unit of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61021	... She'll be replicated by her colleague Bencic. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61022	Dear Minister. My question is the same about restrictions actually disproportionate restrictions on local referendums, except for the percentage of voters whose signatures must be to launch the local referendum itself, which we think should be minimally the same as for the state, and in any case it would be much better if it were less. We have further restrictions on the permission of the referendum issue, on the permission of the local referendum issue, on its legality being decided by the ministry within 60 days, so that's where we've already taken them two months. The decision on the legality of the issue brought by the ministry may be brought before the High Court of Justice, which the decision is to be taken again within 60 days. However, what if the High Administrative Court does not make that decision within 60 days but a year, two, three? This is an instructional deadline, and there are no legal consequences and in no way do we have the fuses to protect the referendum initiative Which maybe in a year, two, three won't make sense anymore. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61023	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61024	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very So, as I said, we will certainly consider this question of signature and percentage for the local referendum. We were certainly guided when we were considering legal protection for the High Administrative Court to be that court that would be in charge, of course, as well as the problem of all deadlines in litigation and criminal proceedings are mostly instructive, so there are certain restrictions because there is no practice to prescribe certain pre-inclusive deadlines for the conduct of the courts themselves. But I believe that the issue of such importance is that the High Administrative Court... will be relevant and resolve that question or answer that lawsuit within the legal time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61025	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61026	Dear Minister. We are unfortunately a banana democracy and the Institute's referendum is essentially a dead letter on paper. In fact, out of a dozen of the citizens' initiatives, one was accepted, this is about the constitutional definition of marriage. And this legislative proposal has certain improvements, but also numerous shortcomings, it is particularly unthinkable to me that HS will have the opportunity to give a counterproposal direct or indirect referendum initiative, so people will have 30 days in the sun, rain, snow on thousands of volunteers to collect signatures and collect famous 400,000 signatures, and on the other hand we will have 76 hands of political like in HS regardless of which political option they belong, and these handles will decide that they will still give one counterproposal and this is the direct killing of democracy legally passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61027	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61028	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So when we talk about banana democracy, I don't think we're banana democracy, and if you think it's really that so-called "Bana democracy." Your banana democracy has brought you here to HS as a representative, has also brought you as Deputy Mayor of the City of Vukovar. As regards the direct and indirect counterproposal, therefore, the indirect counterproposal actually allows for the basis of the expressed will to collect the signature of the HS without calling the referendum to accept what the citizens are, or what the referendum initiative has proposed. So there is no referendum but HS accepts a referendum initiative and changes the Constitution itself, the law and makes a certain principled decision. And on the other hand, we have a direct counterproposal when HS puts on the same issue a proposal for a referendum initiative that can and does not have to accept it. If he does not accept it, there will be a referendum, but with the proposal of the referendum initiative there will also be an HS proposal. in which the citizens will decide the same moment. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61029	Now it's my colleague Raspadic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61030	Thank you. In true democracies, the Law on Referendum serves to enable and regulate the referendum, and with us the referendum legislation seems to be used to disable or to make the maximum use of the term in the context of this law properly dimensioned. It is embarrassing and scandalous in a week in which nearly 50% of people self-recorded via the e-Citizen system that electronic signing for the referendum is not possible. You did not state any arguments, a few times raised that question, you mention the United States there was a problem with a letter vote in fact it turned out that there was no problem because nothing was proven, and this correspondence vote worked perfectly both in Italy and in BiH, for example. So, there's no reason that 16 years after Estonia does this in local elections a simple operation like giving signatures doesn't edit via the e-Citizen system, it's very easy to do and control at five or ten percent People who... that way... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61031	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61032	Thank you very much. As I responded to my colleague, therefore, in the census itself and in the large percentage of only censused citizens in the Republic of Croatia these days, there is a certain control mechanism where censusors visit households and actually control whether these self-recorded persons are living in that location. So, I pointed out several negativeities related to the electronic vote, so I will continue to repeat them, so availability, security, the existence of technical resilience of the system itself, the possibility of fraud, so these are certain things that are traveling us at this time, or which we consider to be a risk for the introduction of an electronic vote in the Republic of Croatia, which is considered by most other countries other than Estonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61033	Now, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61034	So, we are already at a press conference that we have warned that you have, in fact, recognised by this legislative proposal all the malfeasances that you have made, therefore not personally, so this government, former Minister Kuščević, with these two referendum initiatives. Now you're just prescribing what signed lists should look like, how it should be done, how long it takes to check, so everything you've broken with those two referendum initiatives. And what worries me is that you here are actually sending a message that of all these proposals going towards the liberalisation of the referendum and the availability of the referendum, you will accept those coming from the extreme left and the SDSS, so that the Constitutional Court will question questions on which citizens can collect signatures. I remind you and the extreme left in HS that he is sovereign in the Republic of Croatia, and not as in the United States Constitution or the Constitutional Court. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61035	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61036	Thank you very much. Well, yours, too, at your press conference, I noticed that you praised this Law and the legislative arrangement of the Institute of Referendum. I do not think that with this bill, we have admitted that two referendum initiatives have been stolen or that they have been stopped by the government or whoever you already consider responsible for this, so there has been determined by the competent authority that not enough signatures have been collected. On the other hand, there are certain court epilogues and the court has actually confirmed that the procedure has been carried out in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61037	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61038	He's been injured. 238. So we didn't praise anyone anywhere, and I'm sorry that one prospective young politician is stopping from Lovra Kuščević and behind what he's been doing, so with these two referendum initiatives, here, I have to say, that you've actually taken a sort of responsibility for what's been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61039	You know yourself that you deserve a warning because this is a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that's a second warning, so be careful, the next warning would take away your ability to speak on this point. Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Raukar-Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61040	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. We do a lot of things, a lot of remarks and a lot of comments already made, I would refer to one fact, which is the flood of false news that we have witnessed in recent years, especially the increase in this, the most recent example, I would say to Brexit for which it has been very clearly established that the false news has in some way ruled that decision, and today we are looking at the consequences. So in this sense, in this bill of law, I have not seen that any mechanism in the fight against false news has been envisaged. Of course, false news is not a variety of opinions or arguments, but false news, so I ask you nicely to answer that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61041	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61042	Thank you very much, so specifically false news, so-called. Fake news, so it's not the subject of this law. We have thus made available to the public space and committee of advocates and committees of opponents of the referendum initiative, so that one can hear the voice and one who collects signatures, therefore, organisers or advocates, as well as one who opposes the referendum initiative. So in this way we actually gave room to discuss in the public space the justification of a particular referendum issue or a particular topic, so this is actually our contribution to preventing false news in this part of the referendum initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61043	Thank you, Minister. You can go back to your seat. Now we'll hear from the committee's reporters. He answered the words of counterpart Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. If anyone else wants to hear from the rapporteur, let them signal me before the debate begins. Here you go, pal Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61044	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed at its 21st session held on 29 September the proposal for a referendum law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the president of the HS. The Committee discussed the proposal on the basis of its competence under Article. 60 HS Rules of Procedure as a home working body. The applicant's representative stated that this proposal fully aligns the legal area of the referendum with the 4th amendment of the 2010 Constitution. The adoption of this Law significantly improves the legislative framework of the Institute of Referendum in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, while at the same time eliminating the current shortcomings, shortcomings and irregularities which were objectively disruptive to the effective and orderly implementation of the national initiative referendum procedure in practice. This Law also ensures a more effective impact of citizens in the process of political decision-making and thus has a positive impact on the development of democracy, political culture in Croatian society. A special contribution to the development of political dialogue in Croatian society is provided by new institutions of indirect and direct counter-proposal of HS related to the referendum issues of folk initiatives. During the debate, it is proposed to amend the 10% threshold of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia who may request that the HS call for a referendum and subsequently amend the quorum for decision-making in the referendum, which is art. Seven bill proposals. It is also proposed to review the provisions governing the local referendum, in particular in the section which provides for the number of voter signatures in order to be able to request a referendum. Also, relax asking questions that may be subject to a referendum decision. Furthermore, it is proposed to prescribe protection mechanisms in the referendum in order to prevent the possibility of a majority self-will over the minority, particularly in the part of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is also proposed to specifically regulate the provisions relating to the collection of signatures and turnout of voters in the referendum when amending the Republic of Croatia's Constitution, taking into account the strict formal legislative procedure of the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It has been pointed out that there is a need to distinguish more clearly the issues related to the local referendum and the state referendum. It is proposed to lay down provisions relating to better information for citizens on the referendum issue. It is proposed to review the Article. 15 The proposal for a law, given the possibility to regulate a provision which reads as it concerns constitutional matter. In Article 24 of the proposal, it is proposed to extend the deadline of 30 days for the collection of signatures. In Article 23 of the proposal, it is proposed to review the power of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia to examine whether it fulfils the referendum issue of the formal legal requirements set out in Articles 16 to 18 of the proposal. It is also expressed the opinion that the power of the Croatian Parliament to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Articles 35 and 36 of the proposal can only be regulated by the Constitutional Law in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is also proposed to review the provisions concerning the possibility of issuing voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. It is pointed out that it is not acceptable for this proposal to amend the provisions of other acts specifically referring to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for example. to regulate provisions in the normative part of the law in such a way that they are legally linked to provisions that do not yet exist in the legal system. In addition, it was stressed that the constitutional law of the Republic of Croatia needs to be amended in order to regulate the possibility of ex ante control of the constitutionality of the contents of the referendum issue and thus address the problems that have arisen in previous practice. At the end of most votes, 10 votes in favour and one abstention supported the adoption of this law. As you can see from all these discussions that are mentioned in the report of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, we have actually recognised a number of issues in these replicas that have been highlighted, so this has all been discussed on the Committee on the Constitution. Here are the proposals that individual representatives at the committee's session pointed out and we believe that this will be welcome and that the proposaler will take care of all of this in the second reading. And of course here are encouraged and expressed views that it is necessary to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is actually one job if we accept it in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61045	Thank you, fellow Bosnjakovic. Is there anyone else on the board? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the House Movement Representatives' Club and Honored counterpart Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61046	Dear President, Minister, let me begin by reminding me of two fundamental facts that determine and limit the reach of any debate on the legal regulation of referendum issues. The first is basically the protourendum spirit of the Croatian Constitution, which states in Article 87 that the Croatian Parliament will call a referendum if it requires 10% of the total number of voters, which is among the most restrictive conditions in Europe. The second is a law which, in its restrictive provisions on a relatively short deadline for the collection of signatures, which is now fundamentally not changed in this proposal given the constitutional condition of 10% signature. All this, along with other restrictive provisions of the law, calling a referendum on the basis of a mere initiative in the context of the Croatian political, social and media set, makes it almost impossible. This is also witnessed by the fact that in the modern Croatian state, regardless of the number of initiatives, only one referendum is held on the basis of the 2013 popular initiative on the constitutional definition of marriage. Contrary to this 10% constitutional provision in the same constitutional article, the constitutionally generous, actually pointless provision on the absence of an exit threshold or quorum in order for the referendum to be valid, which in practice can mean that a decision to amend the Constitution can make 3, 5, 10 or 50 voters. Since in Croatian politics and public life, memory lasts less than a week, we remind ourselves that this provision was found in the Constitution in 2010 as a fruit of a broader contract or trade in the system class of Croatian political class then embodied on the one hand in the figure of the mother of today's HDZ Mrs Kosor, and on the other hand in the figure of today's new born champion of Croatian sovereignty, Mr Milanovic, then president of the opposition SDP. In the background of the trade operation, their common and well-founded concern about the predictable failure of the EU referendum was more precisely the fear of the Croatian people's will which resulted in poor turnout and confirmed it. The second part of the contract concerned the HDZ's consent to the constitutional limit of the election of only 3 MPs in the Croatian Parliament to represent Croatian citizens resident outside the Republic of Croatia. Another limiting fact in light that we should also look at this legislative proposal is the content of the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, Election Promotions and Referendum adopted in 2019, the second Government of Master Andrej Plenkovic, the more accurate Government of HDZ, HNS, SDSS, Sach and the Group. This law has mixed pears and apples, political activities, election promotion and referendum. The financing of the referendum should be an integral part of the Minister of Today's draft law because its adoption should precede the regulation of the funding of the referendum. In addition, the one from 2019 has a first-class historical background with a travesty without precedent in the history of Croatian Parliamentism. What's this about? In 1919, the second government of Master Plenkovic through Minister Kuščević, lex Kuščević, from the political protureferendum motive and because of intellectual laziness reached for the theft of other people's unprotected intellectual property and in the parliamentary procedure, sent a copy of Milanovic's Government's proposal on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums from 2015, let's call it lex Milanović, Bauk, Grbin. Not only that, Plenkovic's Government went one step further in 2019, so according to the People's Representative, Bauk, it had been anticipating and respecting all the changes sought by the SDP's NGOs in 2015, which they had not been able to put into the final legislative proposal because Milanovic's Kukuriku was the government that failed in the elections a month later. Because of the forgetful and generally short public memory, not to say short mind, we go back a few years. First, 2014 under the impression of the victory of the referendum of the identity of the people who opposed the rule of the Troika Josipović, Milanović, Pusic, SDP's constitutional mindset Pedja Grbin in the procedure points to the protureferendum draft law on the referendum. At that time, the opposition, HDZ, came out of Mr. Karamark's robe, a proposal to cross, quote, the law on the disabling of the referendum. Due to the renunciation from the then non-governmental profit sector, now the platform We can!, Grbin withdraws and several months later from his and Bauk's pate turns out to be a new proturferendum paliative substitute, a legal proposal on the financing of the referendum, so that there is no confusion, the same one who prescribed Plenkovic's Government in 2019 adopted HS. Finally, I would refer to the measure of the lack of this legislative proposal, without the illusion of the substantial changes in the second reading, given that it is impossible without removing the constitutional limit of 10%. First and key, Art. 26. on the collection of signatures because it is restrictive because it determines that citizens can give their signature exclusively in places determined by the decisions of the representative body of the local self-government unit, which opens up the possibility of abuse or shorthandling because there is no sanction, let us remember the dictatorial behaviour of the Rijeka Mayor Obersnel, in the case of an initiative, there is therefore no sanctions, which is contrary to the practice of collecting signatures for candidates in the elections because election laws do not know such a restriction. In this regard, it is possible to disable signatures by electronic means, which is the practice provided in the current census. Secondly, a restrictive assumption is laid down for the establishment of an organisational committee to allow the final development of the referendum initiative to be completed even after its draft. Thirdly, the deadline for the collection of signatures extending from 15 to 30 days, given the constitutional restriction of 10% of signatures is only cosmetic and insufficient change. The fourth is related to the article. 28 containing provisions on data to be entered in the list, including the OIB, which is contrary to the electoral legislation, i.e. DIP rules which only require the number of IDs when collecting signatures for electoral candidates. The fifth, relating to the identification of the number of valid signatures granted to the DIP, not as so far as ad hoc to the minister's office, would be to allow for change and lower election commissions, which would speed up the process. Key... and introducing an indirect and direct counterproposal which is a takeover from the Swiss model. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In principle, it can be acceptable, but which, in the context of other restrictions, I repeat, is a key constitutional restriction, which makes the Swiss law a groundless debate in vain. I'd like to conclude that I've never divinated a referendum or anything like that. I have supported them from case to case in principle. That's right today. As politically responsible people, we do not lose sight of all the advantages, but possible lack of restrictions and abuse of civil referendums. The referendum is not a purpose to itself, the referendum is the last means that the people have in their hands when they face an alienated government and a political caste that ignores its authentic interests and needs, and especially when it tries social engineering to change its identity culturally, religiously and socially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61047	Thank you. Now it's the Bridge, the Bridge Representatives' Club and Mr. Nino Rasudiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61048	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. As I have already said, in mature democracies, the Law on Referendum serves to enable and regulate the referendum, and so far it has served to disable the referendum, make it difficult, obstruct as much as possible. I'm afraid this bill is also on the trail. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia clearly states that the people are the bearer of sovereignty and this is not a reluctance. Art. 1, in the Republic of Croatia, power comes from the people and belongs to the people as a community of free and equal citizens. The people then exercise power by selecting their representatives and by making direct decisions. The proposal for this Law states in an assessment of the situation in order to fulfil its democratic purpose of the Institute of the Referendum must be properly governed by law and adequately dimensioned in accordance with the Constitution. Here stands a trap in this matter of appropriate dimensioning, and now we hear some suggestions from the quite unexpected to God's free left that this appropriate dimensioning by the Constitutional Court should be done even before they start collecting signatures. The proposal is absurd because we could do a hundred fake initiatives and bury the Constitutional Court with initiatives, and then we wouldn't do anything but ambush and say this question is constitutional, this unconstitutional before and the signatures begin. In the same assessment of the situation, problems are recognised, not to say the theft of previous referendums, I quote the existing legislative framework does not provide for regular political decision-making processes in the referendum, referendums in the Republic of Croatia and today are implemented in the frameworks of an unsettled and undeveloped legislative framework, in particular when it comes to national initiatives and procedures that precede the adoption of a decision by the Croatian Parliament on the calling of a referendum, etc., etc. That is also said by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on 20 October 2010, when it stressed that, I quote legal shortcomings, open an objective possibility of neglecting that will of the voters. Over the next decade, we have seen how this will is ignored or played out. It's been 11 years since the Constitutional Court's position, which happened in those 11 years, nothing. Here, only now do we have this bill that only introduces some cosmetic changes. So, the referendum law I will repeat once again seems not to be there to allow and arrange the referendum but to disable it. We heard earlier that the ruling oligarchy had to abolish the majority of votes in the Republic of Croatia in a referendum because otherwise they would not have passed a referendum on EU accession. This was all happening in 2010. At that time, a crack was opened to express the people's will despite the huge other obstacles and obstructions of the small crack, and I repeat that a referendum on EU accession was used for the first successful national referendum in 2013. As far as these restrictions are concerned, first of all there is this absurdly high threshold, the number of signatures. Arsen Bauk, Minister of Administration, is not here, celebrated in 2014 when the initiative "Let's choose representatives by name and last name" collected more than 380,000 signatures for the signing of a referendum on the amendment of the electoral law, the Minister then delivered an opinion confirmed by the Constitutional Court that there were over 4 million voters in Croatia even though the data of the State Institute for Statistics and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance showed that at that time the residence in Croatia had 3.5 million adults and a referendum as we know it was not called. Another problem is the inability to sign electronically. We see now 50% of people self-recorded through the system of e-citizens, which is much more complex and much longer. As early as 2005, Estonia introduced an online vote, with us there is no correspondence that even BiH has and works well despite the recommendations of the Venice Commission we listen to everything that comes from Europe but sees wonders about e-voting something we are not given. Why we are so lagging behind in the introduction of e-voting, and we can make such a nice list of answers is simple. As for the elections, lower turnout means a greater proportion of safe voters more precisely their clientele and the results they benefit from. About these two key things, there's no movement in the new law. It is nice that these 15 days seem to have increased to 30 for the collection of signatures, but that is too little among other things because then the time for processing and handing over collected signatures and other materials is shortened. Our legislation on referendums shows fundamental mistrust with citizens and their maturity, as if Croatian citizens were some haters, and the ruling colonial managers will keep them under control so they do not savagely. Who are our rulers? Whether they are some enlightened absoluteists or, as the Constitution makes it clear, temporarily in the elections, they are authorised to, preferably for 4 years if they push through until the end of the term of office, act in the name of the people who have temporarily entrusted them with it as sovereign. We also have an old statement by Vladimir Seks at the time of the first attempt of a national referendum on the change of the electoral system to destabilise the system. That's when HDZ and SDP agreed. That's exactly what we want. We want to destabilise the system you've been hiding towards yourself and we want to break down the non-democratic and in economic and social practices of the corrupt scheme. We want to destabilise such a system, we want to delete it completely. Build new ones based on laws and on quality and fair institutions and their actions. The democratic deficit or the lack of legitimacy of those who make decisions in the long term is the greatest threat to democracy and freedom and the rule of law. The trend is global, and it is most clear in the EU starting with a referendum in Denmark in 1992 that rejected the Maastricht Treaty, which was created by the EU, whose outcome was later played. Afterwards, citizens and the EU were less and less concerned about the opinion, and when asked, they voted against the desire of oligarchy, from the EUR referendum in Sweden to the British 2016 on Brexit or the Dutch on the EU enlargement to Ukraine that year. These are dangerous tendencies, this pride of estranged ruling oligarchy, which becomes its own purpose and which apparently learned nothing from history. The important newspaper is the DIP instead of the Ministry of Administration, come on, it's nice, the DIP is an independent body. I hope Lovro Kuščević doesn't swim at the head of the DIP in a year or two. To recap, there's no reason not to introduce electronic signature via the E-Citizen system. He says the system isn't safe, so over the token, we go in and out of the bank, and we're e-civilizing, and I don't know that anyone has stolen money from anyone, through that system, for example. Another problem is the 10% threshold set by the constitution. Switzerland has 7.3 million inhabitants, 50,000 signatures are enough for a referendum in 100 days, in Italy 1%, 2% in Slovenia, Poland and Hungary. Let's agree on a change of constitution, put it down, it doesn't have to be 1% or 2%, make it 5%. For local elections it can be done immediately because the constitution does not determine anything, so change in this law that 20% threshold is really too high, especially for large cities. It is necessary to extend the deadline for preparing the signatures for surrender, then it is unclear that this action of the pro-tourendum committee which has no legitimacy, let those such as in Switzerland collect half of the signatures collected by the referendum initiative in order to obtain a proportionate media space to present their votes, their position against. Then there is no reason not to allow more than two questions in the referendum and it is entirely necessary to delete the law on local self-government to determine where the signatures are to be collected. I can assume that Obersnel or some of his heirs would be assigned to some remote meadow in Rijeka, right here to collect. It is sufficient to specify that signatures can be collected on any public surface in the Republic of Croatia. It is then necessary to simplify the procedure for collecting signatures because no other type of election is required to record the place and date when the signature is taken and the like. If all is accepted Which I doubt, only then would we be willing to uphold this law. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61049	Thank you very much. Now it is time for the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, it says Pavliček-Zekanovic, and I see that Mr. Zekanovic is first, first coming, so we will welcome him, please, go ahead, go ahead. No, no, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61050	And where's the minister gone? It fits. Dear Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Let's protect the Croatian Kuna. Croatians and Croats will go to the referendum from 24 October to 7 November to collect signatures to protect the Croatian monetary unit Kuna. This isn't the first referendum I'm going to take part in, there's been a lot of them. One was successful, we were able to protect the constitutional definition of marriage. But then there was a fraud, and I would like to mention it from this place for all those who have forgotten. After the people said theirs and after collecting a sufficient number of signatures from the then government, Milanovic gave in the procedure a law that played the will of citizens who were at the referendum, the Life Partnership Act. So all those who today are glorifying President Milanovic to remember that decision, or fraud, of the voters. And what I would like Croatian citizens from this place to hear and prepare, which is a referendum issue. Are you in favour of introducing in the Republic of Croatia a provision that reads, the monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia is a kuna that is divided into 100 limes. The decision to change the monetary unit to the Republic of Croatia is made by voters in the referendum. I call on all Croatians and Croats to prepare, from 24 October to 7 November we will collect signatures to have a referendum on this referendum issue. Unfortunately, the government of Andrej Plenkovic, now the current government will do absolutely anything to ensure that this referendum happens, so we still do not have the electoral census, we will still have to collect nearly 400,000 signatures to allow a national referendum. I will remind you that while HDZ was in opposition, he objected to Arsen Bauk's then minister for why no voter lists were arranged. Today Minister Malenica has the opportunity to settle these lists and has the opportunity to allow Croatian citizens in a fair way to collect signatures or to come to their constitutional right, which is the right to a referendum. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you are here with us and this way I challenge you, if you think this bill is valid and if it is good, hurry with the procedure, we will bring it into force for 10 days and let this extremely important referendum for the protection of the Croatian Kuna be held according to the new bill. Here I have to mention another fact that is extremely important, and no one has mentioned it before, and I'm going to give you this document that you have, and it's about resolving the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. For those who do not remember, the Truth on Istanbul initiative, which collected signatures to reject the Istanbul Convention, which is a bad document for the Croatian people, has received a response from the constitutional court, paragraph 5.1, will say, from the above, that it does not require the organisational committees to obtain permission to collect the signature of the referendum initiative from the body of local and regional or regional self-government. So, according to the Constitutional Court's resolution, anyone who wants to be in any unit of local or regional self-government in any place has the right to collect signatures at any time. The only duty he has, which is to obtain permission, to inform the police administration. What is provided for in the new bill makes this procedure difficult, and I invite you, if you are indeed in favour of facilitating referendum initiatives, change this. And I call on Croatian citizens to join the initiative and to protect the Croatian Kuna together. Here, Minister, a document for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61051	Mr. Pavlichek will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61052	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State. The referendum is the strongest instrument of democracy and the referendum is a festival of democracy. Unfortunately, the Institute of the Referendum is only a dead letter on paper in Croatia. In spite of a few dozen referendum initiatives, the referendum was allowed only by one citizens' initiative, despite a few dozen referendum initiatives. Everyone else was rejected for this or that reason. In fact, existing legal frameworks need to produce a famous figure of nearly 400,000 signatures in just 2 weeks. The units of local self-government waiting, allowing or not allowing the solution or providing information where signatures can be collected. After that, we have a famous count of signatures from various Kuštevićs and similar ones, and in the end we have the highest instance, which is the Constitutional Court which we ourselves know is elected by judges of the Constitutional Court and that it often makes decisions in favour of the rulings and often declares referendum issues that are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, a large part of the referendum initiatives are infamously ending. In this bill of law, there are certain improvements, and that should be said loud and clear, it is good to extend the 30-day deadline, to collect signatures, from 15 to 30. It is good that representatives of the citizens' initiative can be present when counting the signatures, but there is also a series of shortcomings, and I will be in them soon. But the question arises why is it here in HS today that the referendum law is being discussed when we know it was the same at a public hearing more than 10 months ago. Is this why we protect the Croatian Kuna initiative to launch a referendum on Croatia's entry into the Eurozone? Is this how this initiative wants to be divorced, or was this simply a negligence of the ruling ones, waiting 10 months for this legislative proposal to come to the assembly benches? As for the lack of this bill, I'll list some. We live in the 21st century where a large part of our citizens are informational written and we did not allow the collection of signatures through the e-Citizen system, and until 1 day ago we had a list of the population through the same system where a million Croats and Croats and our fellow citizens signed in via the e-Citizens system. Why are we afraid of the opinion of the Croatian people? We have no reason. They chose us, so let them decide what's best. And why we're not making it easier for them to collect signatures, but we're looking at making it as difficult as possible. It is also absurd to allow these two counter-proposals to be proposed by the Republic of Croatia in this Bill proposal. On the one hand, we have 400 thousand signatures or more, we have thousands of volunteers who a month after this legal proposal by snow, ice, rain, the sun, collect hard signatures, on the other hand we have 76 similar handles in HS, regardless of which political option we are dealing with and who will simply raise their hand and say that they will give their counterproposal and then these two counterproposals will go back to the referendum and the citizens will decide which one to accept. This is the direct killing of democracy, on the one hand we have a Croatian people, on the other hand we have MPs elected by that same people who will give their counter-proposal to that same Croatian people. It is also inconceivable to establish here, allow the establishment of a committee of opponents of the People's Initiative. A whole new concept that will have the opportunity to be present when counting signatures. Why the board of opponents of the People's Initiative? Whether the board will collect 400 thousand signatures and then oppose the people's initiative that collected that same number of signatures than it will form with 15 citizens and will have the same authorities as the entire national initiative, the same weight as 400 thousand signatures of Croatian citizens. So a series of illogicalities, here, I invite you to accept the amendments of Croatian sovereigns and introduce Indeed, the amendments to the Law on Referendum. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61053	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers and whose views Mr Darko Klasic will present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61054	Thank you very much, esteemed vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister's associate. The HSLS welcomes the amendment of the existing referendum law, which adopts European standards in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission of the Council of the EU, as well as the efforts to further strengthen democratic institutions with the proposed amendments. As we know, right now, democratic institutions, both in Croatia and in Europe and around the world, are becoming increasingly weak and because of their faith in the myth that once they are established in society, they will remain intact forever, and because of the political action of various political and social groups, whose goal is precisely the destabilising of democratic societies. In fact, if we have forgotten the similar indemnity of such democratic efforts in our recent past, it is precisely in the field of holding a referendum as one of the democratic institutions that we can no doubt be reminded of the current political developments and initiatives in Poland and Hungary. Current trends, regressions of liberal-democratic institutions may best illustrate the appearance of the concept of so-called "democratic institutions". non-liberal democracies, such concepts are based on the idea that democratic institutions can be separated from the liberal values and that certain majority at a certain point can also decide a certain minority which is seemingly democratic. In fact, if the foundation of liberalism as a philosophical political concept is lost, it is often forgotten more and more that the government of the Constitution in liberal democracy, so is happiness in Croatia. It is in our blood that the elected Constitution defines us as an independent, independent and sovereign political community in relation to all past, present and future political communities, and that is why the fight for our constitutional values is a struggle for our country and for the citizens to whom they belong. For this reason, as liberals, we are pleased that the legislator has recognised this extremely narrow link between the referendum, democracy and the Constitution that protects fundamental democratic values. On the other hand, the attitude towards social minorities shows that a particular political community is achieving its fundamental democratic values. This relationship also shows the difference between formal democracy reduced to the mere decision-making that very often becomes or are not liberal and real democracies in which the ideas of civil freedoms and tolerances are established a thread of the leadership of each policy. In view of the above, HSLS considers that the adoption of a new referendum law requires further defending and strengthening democracy and its institutions in which the freedom and progress of each community depends. Considering that the tasks of political institutions are among other things to protect individuals from the obsession of others and that it is necessary to prevent it from becoming a majority tyranny within the framework of the referendum, in order to ensure for each individual the freedom which may, for some reason, not acceptable, the HSLS suggests that the referendum law lays down the principle of universality of a referendum issue which should not be shared, which equally affects the entire electoral body, and does not affect certain particularly minority social groups. This is why HSLS proposes to propose the proposed provisions of Article 1(1). I would like to make it clear by the additional provisions in the form of a new paragraph, which would read as follows. The referendum issue cannot be decided on the rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, law and sublaw of the Republic of Croatia, which relate to certain groups of persons protected from discrimination under the established Constitution, law and sublaw of the Republic of Croatia. We also believe that freedom is actually a fundamental political issue because limiting the freedom of each individual is a necessary prerequisite for the political organisation of human life. Namely, if all or at least a certain majority can, at a certain point, work and decide on whatever they want, then all of them, and some other majority, at some other point, can take away freedom from others. We've been witnesses in history so far. For this reason, I believe that the regulation of the matter of referendum should be approached from the point of view through the necessary protection and strengthening of the liberal and democratic values of institutions. In addition to the above, we would also like to encourage a debate on the conduct of an electronic vote and the electronic implementation of individual stages of the referendum procedure in the context of this parliamentary debate. In this regard, we would suggest to the Proposer that he consider including electronic voting and other participation in the referendum process as additional possibilities, not at all, in order to start digital experience in the election processes. Promoting the new digital forms of interaction between citizens and the state by applying the latest technologies such as Blockchain, which can further improve the non-injuriousness of election processes and citizens' trust in them. The success and desire of citizens for this way of digital participation has just pleasantly surprised us in the actual signing of the population in the list of the Republic of Croatia, which has shown a large level of information literacy for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well as the desire to engage in active social and political processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61055	You, too. Now it's Mrs. Anya Chimpraga's turn to speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61056	Dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The referendum is a strong and important form of showing the democratic will of the people, so this bill is also one of the most important issues of regulating and practicing democracy that we as advocates can and must discuss. Accordingly, my club, the SDSS Club and I believe that this issue should be approached soberly and without party, party interest and intent. This is why I speak in that context. Back in the few years, we had several referendum initiatives that really showed a deep division in society, and therefore it is necessary to change the legal framework, but a lot of work to raise awareness of the value of tolerance in order to become a society where human and minority rights are respected and protected. First, the regulation of referendum matter so far was not good, neither was it in the Constitution, nor was it in the law. The constitution had two main weaknesses, allowing the three referendum voters to decide on a referendum issue and did not protect the fundamental values of the Constitution and democracy from referendum adventures. The law prescribed a high percentage of signatures so that many referendum initiatives had failed. So, the current regulatory framework has, on the one hand, hampered the democratic referendum initiative, and on the other, made it possible for such obstacles to pass and to legitimise the non-democratic people's will. Secondly, the current practice of referendum initiatives has at one point turned into a means of future party ideological platforms and for their political promotion. This practice, which in some cases focused on challenging the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, such as national equality or gender equality, has seriously burdened and compromised the Institute of Referendum. Such bad practices and experience of using a referendum to limit the rights of smaller people and create intolerance towards minorities should also be taken into account in the construction of a new law. As far as the bill before us is concerned, it is a significant and important improvement of the existing law. I'll point out some of the most important. It sets out much clearer conditions for the launch of referendum initiatives, supervision and control of signature collection, and deadlines for their verification. It introduces an institute of anti-referendum initiatives, which increases democracy and pluralism in society. It also removes the illogical differences that existed with regard to the maintenance of a national and local referendum, which was reflected in the fact that the conditions for the maintenance of local referendums were stricter than the conditions for state. It introduces the competence of the DIP in the assessment of the referendum initiative and issues, as well as the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. And it's all good, even very good. However, I'd like to say three things. First, we at the SDSS Club think that the 10% threshold required by the total number of voters is too high, and that it needs to be brought down significantly. We also believe that the percentage of those who support the referendum issue cannot and should not be less than 1/3 of the total number of voters enrolled. Finally, we believe that fundamental constitutional values should be protected from referendum initiatives, and that the rights of any minority cannot be decided at the referendum. Finally, with all its positive things, this law cannot resolve what is being resolved by any amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, either by amendments to the Constitution itself. For this reason, we propose that the talks on this continue at the meetings of the committees in charge, and agree on the views of the clubs. Our club will go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61057	You, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Sandra Bencic, who will speak in front of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61058	Thank you. So, we at the Green-Left bloc Club are the question of the referendum, and in particular the People's Referendum Initiatives consider one of the key issues of democratisation of society, but also of ensuring mechanisms of control and influence of citizens on legislative and executive power. Our referendum legislation so far has had serious shortcomings and major restrictions on referendum initiatives, and in particular, a local referendum that should be the most accessible and easy to launch in our opinion, because local issues are the ones that are closest to citizens and where citizens should actually have the greatest impact on decision-making. I'm going to give you an example of a local referendum that didn't work out precisely because of the legal restrictions we've had so far and we still have the law. This is the referendum launched by the “Srđ is ours” initiative in Dubrovnik. In Dubrovnik, then, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia, a local referendum was held, initiated by the citizens themselves. Of the citizens who responded to the referendum, as many as 85% of them, 85% declared against the project of the company Golf Development, which under cover of the construction of the golf course actually enabled the apartmentization of Srđa, but... This was not enough because the law, which is still valid, stipulates that a local referendum needs 50% plus one citizen vote. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't even have that in local elections in a large number of JLS. At the same time, 2013 37% of citizens have come out of the referendum on amending the Republic of Croatia's Constitution and this in terms of the definition of marriage because there is no provision on the number of citizens who have to come out in order to make a decision in the referendum on amending the constitution. In particular, the constitution was voted for, voted in favour, so 531,000 citizens voted in favour of such a referendum initiative and the constitution was changed. So if three people had come out, if three people had come out, they would have changed the constitution. So on one side at the local level we're looking for 50% plus one, and for a change of constitution, here's if one family agrees and goes to the elections, changed the constitution. The bill that we have in front of us is nothing, it's a milder thing, but it's not soft enough for local referendums. It now requires 20% of signatures at JLS level of registered voters in order to launch a local referendum, at the same time a national referendum of 10%. So I understand that logic was a legislator that there are JLSs with 500 people, so that literally one small-scale family can run a local referendum. But having JLS with 500 people is really your problem, not the problem of the people of the Republic of Croatia. Because, yes, no JLS should be a community, let's be realistic, if there are 500 people or 800 people because it's unsustainable in every way. And for that reason, we have such high limits. And 20% in Zagreb, and this is true for Zagreb, for example, also applies to Split, and for Dubrovnik is a serious figure that the local referendum initiative should be collected in the number of signatures. So we can't regulate it this way because because of all governments so far, but most of all, those where HDZ is in most of us have units of local self-government with several families. So we believe that these 20% must be reduced to a minimum of 10% and minimally equalized, so the launch of a local initiative with one that requires an amendment to the law or constitution at national level. Also, what you have prescribed is in this bill it is to ask for other than that 20% of signatures that when a referendum comes to a decision being made by most voters who went to the elections but only if that majority is equal to a minimum of 1/3 of voters enrolled in the register. So 1/3 of them must do that majority that voted in favour, for a specific referendum initiative, or for a referendum issue. So that's where we re-set a limit at the level of a local referendum that we don't have at the level of, for example, a change in the Constitution. Our proposal would therefore be because we cannot, at all, understand the logic of why the legislator would limit local referendums on the one hand, and that is disproportionate to regulations, in relation to the same regulation that regulates the issue of legislative and constitutional referendum. Well, I guess the logic is to make it easier for the locals, that it's a little harder to change the law, and that it's the hardest thing to change the Constitution. Well, that should be logic, so that's logic and representative authority, right, legislator. It's easier to change the law by simple majority, when we change the Constitution we don't have a simple majority, right? So what we think is that for a local referendum should be enough for 25% of registered voters to come out, for a referendum on amending the law 35% of voters, while for a change of the constitution we think there must be a serious 50% plus 1 quorum because we cannot change the Constitution in the same way as we change, for example, I don't know any communal question. I hope that logic is what we all do, that we all accept it. There are other rules on this proposal, for example, in Article 14 of the Law, for the identification of the number of voters by the ministry by a decision of the administrative body or ministry to be delivered to the DIP. So, you've identified the number of registered voters, you've made a solution, you've sent the DIP, but Article 18 doesn't say which is the possibility of investing a legal remedy against such a solution and whether there's a legal remedy at all. So there is no foreseeable possibility of any complaint or complaint to the Administrative Court in the event, of course, that the holder of the referendum initiative considers that the number of registered voters found is not correct. Furthermore, we also find it problematic what I have already told you, which is that in the local referendum, the way the referendum is being checked is done in a way that the legality of the referendum question assesses who, the ministry. And then, for example, if the ministry finds that the referendum issue is not legal what remains for the motion of the initiative, it can go to the Administrative Court, the High Administrative Court, huh. So, the instructive deadline within which the High Administrative Court should resolve it is 60 days, we know that it is an instructive deadline, we know that there are great chances that it will not happen within 60 days and that there is, of course, the possibility that it will happen in a year, two, three, when this local referendum may no longer make sense. So there's a clear way here to obstruct the local referendum initiative. Therefore, it is not also prescribed in that same article what is specifically happening to the ministry's decision if the High Administrative Court annuls their decision. You say then the ministry is making a new solution, but it does not say in the law that this new solution must be in line with the decision of the High Administrative Court. So, you can, according to what the law says, make a new solution that is contrary to the decision of the High Administrative Court and then force the local referendum initiative to go back to the High Administrative Court and seek a rejuvenation. So let's keep it half a year, year, two. So it's a model that can obstruct local referendum initiatives. I believe that the general amendments to this law must be followed by amendments to the Constitution as well as amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums in order not to have this disproportionate restriction at local level in relation to the national and constitutional level of amending the laws and the Constitution. Also... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61059	Thank you very much, thank you. Now Mr. Arsen Bauk will speak in front of the club, about the pardon, Mr. Branko Bačić, Mr. Branko Bačić will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Don't throw it out, don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61060	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I know that my colleague Bauk would work on this right, but there's a little more... a little more trouble on the left. We will support this law at the HDZ Representatives' Club in the first reading as the government proposed it for reasons because it legally regulates the area of referendums and referendum initiatives, harmonizes this law with the Constitution, further, contributes to transparency and openness of the procedure for the implementation of the referendum itself. It also includes recommendations from the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe and its implementation, we can say that it will contribute to improving the opportunities for direct participation of citizens in the democratic system and will allow the voice of citizens to be heard better and stronger in the same democratic atmosphere. This draft law is in line with the fourth amendment to the 2010 Constitution. Some shortcomings are being eliminated and in this way, the practical law allows the possibility of making the referendum known to citizens more accessible, simpler, orderly that the procedure is transparent and prescribed. That is why we will also support this law at the HDZ Representatives' Club. What we hear from other clubs during the morning is that this law is being challenged or predated by certain provisions that are allegedly not in existence in the law, and they cannot exist because the law that the government sent to HS must be in line with the Croatian Constitution. Therefore, the remarks I will repeat, which relate to the 10% voter censorship, as necessary, for the implementation of the state referendum, are set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Another remark concerning the law implies that the law should prescribe certain questions which cannot be prescribed in a referendum, which is also prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, where HS can question certain issues, but after a sufficient number of signatures are collected, so 10% of voters cannot be asked before. I understand that it would be said that the constitutionality of the referendum issue is being questioned by the Constitutional Court before it takes place in the 10% voter collection procedure because it would release a truly large social energy invested in the collection of such a large number of 380,000 signatures, but at this point the Constitution is defined. The third remark heard during the morning also referred to the decision-making quorum, which was again defined by the 2010 Constitution itself. Therefore, we can talk about the opportunity of such an approach so that the law may need to contain it, but it implies first of all a change in the Constitution. The experience that has taught us over the past years has led us to conclude that the amendments to the Constitution at the end or have resulted in a greater change than those which were in the very beginning when the initiative for the amendment of the Constitution was indicated or since the amendments to the Constitution have given up because it was indeed such a proposal to amend the Constitution of those who should be supporters of the amendments to the Constitution, which is 101 MPs, which means several political parties and options, makes such an approach at this time that would quickly change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and whose aim should be the Law on the referendum, which should therefore quickly go into the amendments to the Constitution almost incomprehensible and unacceptable. I personally think it would be good to think about amending certain provisions through the Constitutional Law, so that the constitutionality of the referendum issue is questioned before it starts to collect voter signatures, so that it would be good to consider amendments to the Constitution. But let's not be fooled, because of the need to gather 101 votes of MPs in HS, I am sure that the many political options that are being participated in that 101 hand will require not only changes to the Constitution that concern the need to regulate the Constitution and these three issues that I have just spoken of but are wider. And that's how I remember it because I was a participant in 2010. when we changed the Constitution that we were changing the Constitution in order to join and bring the Croatian legislation into line with EU legislation in part of the constitution of the state government, so we changed the Constitution and it was our priority, but because of the need for such a decision to change the constitution to be 101 hands to experience that we had changed the original bases, that we had changed the status of Croatian defenders, that we had talked about changing access to voter lists, rules, etc., etc. and we changed the number of MPs coming from the 11th constituency, changing a fixed quota and establishing a number of three MPs, etc., etc. So you need to be there pretty real. I think it is well within this framework that such a law is passed, if during that time we can at least amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court so that we can change the approach to establishing the constitutionality of a single referendum issue and that's good. But I'm sure that in such a short time or in a certain time that is ahead of us we will change the Constitution so that we can adapt the referendum so the new Constitution is not sure, I'm not sure. I therefore believe that it is good to pass a law that will help to make what I have said at the outset to the voice of the citizens in this immediate democracy better and more loudly heard and we are thus allowing it to really make that voice of the citizens in that direct democracy better and stronger. And I'm going to say a few more words about a flossule that's spreading not only in the Assembly about how it is, in Croatia they're groundless in any such folk or civic initiative, because, yes, that they generally don't have an epilogous referendum statement, so I'm going to remind you, for example, that it's 2009-'10. A very large number of signatures have been collected on the amendment of the Labour Act. The epilogue, the government, did not hold a referendum, but the government was in line with the referendum issue later and brought it into line, and brought labour legislation into line. Therefore, there was no referendum, but the voice of the citizens was practically reflected and realised through the amendment of the law. Afterwards, we had a constitutional or referendum question on the constitutional definition of marriage. The referendum was held, therefore, held and such a referendum issue was, today forms an integral part of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the law, monetization or government's proposal to go into monetization and outsoring also brought together the required number of votes. The epilogue is that the government gave up on both projects, one constitutional court estimated unconstitutional, and in the other the government gave up monetization before there was even a question about the constitutionality of such a issue. Thus, these two people’s or citizens’ initiatives also gained their success when they set out in its realization. Furthermore, the referendum initiative around, called "67 is too much". That's right, she didn't have her own referendum epilogue, but we almost fully accepted in HS, accepted a bill that was supposed to be questioned in the referendum. The two "People's Decision" initiatives and "The Truth of Istanbul" were not realised and had no epilogue in such a way as to vote on them in a referendum because the government, HS and the constitutional court found that one and the other initiatives had not collected the required number of votes. Therefore, I would not, at the outset, underestimate the democracy and the right that comes from the constitution to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to, to exercise their right in this referendum process where it is directly stated on certain issues that are of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because here is one annual review through several referendum initiatives that we have had in the last 11-12 years. says the opposite, and that's so good. It does not mean that a referendum must be held if, if the HS has adopted such an initiative in the case of amendments to certain laws. Therefore, I think it was the goal of those who, the initiative that triggered this to give them the HS or to, to amend certain laws that the assembly had adopted by its decisions. So I'm going to talk about it one more time, and we're going to support this bill at the counsel club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61061	Thank you. And now it's Mr. Arsen Bauk's turn, I assume, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61062	Your assumptions are good, Vice President. I'm still in one club and you're in two. All right. ... esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will support in first reading this referendum law, as our president explained at the outset when he asked for a break why. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we think this is one step in the right direction, but I'm going to compare this situation with the referendum law to one life situation. So, you have a car that drives along the highway, but it's got a problem with fuel supply, so it can't develop more than 2,000 turns, and then it would be about like this constitutional, constitutional regulation of the referendum, and then you instead of taking it to the mechanic, you take it to the foundry to fix his foundry, the vulcanizer to fix his tires and some other things, the electrician to fix his electricity, everything except that fuel supply that keeps him from driving faster. That's the situation with the referendum law. So, the fundamental, fundamental problem that we have in Croatia with the referendum matter is not in the law but in the constitution, and it would be good if there is agreement, and I see that there is consensus, regardless of the concerns expressed by counterpart Bačić, so that such a change of constitution from one article could be turned into a broad debate on, on the original grounds, to, to, to, to, to, to, to and from, everything else. I share this fear here, too, but I think it's less real than it was in 2010 or 2014. But in the end, if something like that happens to Mr. Bačić, you can always tell him I told you, and that's what you would be and that would be right. In Croatia, the referendum was mainly a means for the opposition or other groups to use if they wanted to prevent the government from doing something she had announced or if she wanted to change something that the government had already done. And all of these initiatives that Bačić listed and which were, when he explained how the people's initiative actually achieved its goal was precisely that. All of the things that have been listed and that have succeeded in their essence is something the government has done, so it has to give up or it doesn't go into realisation at all. But to be precise, the only initiative that has been formally successful has really failed the one about the definition of marriage. Why? Because those who wrote the question didn't have the guts to put into that question what they really wanted, and they knew that if they put it that the referendum would be unconstitutional and that's why they harass us every day that we passed a law that we passed the referendum will of citizens, which is not true because that's how the constitutional court would abolish that law because it's unconstitutional. As for the other, other topics concerning the constitutional court, it is the number of voters and the urban legend mentioned by my colleague Rasdic that I have deceived someone, I must admit that I do not have the power to misjudge the whole constitutional court, I have failed in any other case, so it is probably not in this either, but simply from the data available and presented by the Constitutional Court who is relevant, and the data were followed because of the record that according to the census of the National Statistics Office in Croatia in 2011 and '12. There were 3.5 million inhabitants, that the number of Croatian citizens residing in the Republic of Croatia and a valid ID card which was then a condition for entering the register of voters was 3700, that the number of Croatian citizens who were resident in the Republic of Croatia with a valid and invalid ID card was 4 million and 0.80 and something and that the total number of Croatian citizens with voting rights was included, so the diaspora 4.5 million was included and out of that 3 numbers the Constitutional Court assessed which was relevant. So, I didn't say any guilty information there or who accused me of it, but here, to keep it in writing, written down. So, as far as the amendments to the Constitution are concerned, the most controversial provision is that, as I rarely agree with Professor Sredello, it is about what number of votes it takes or how many people it takes to come out to make a decision in the referendum. I think it is primarily a threat to constitutional change, but from everything else and that is one, this provision is one of the major threats to the stability of the political system in Croatia because it is nevertheless something that takes away the legitimacy of the people's initiative and enables a fat minority to point out the quiet majority by its tenacity and perseverance, the silent majority. The second is the act of collecting signatures in this case, so we don't have a classic referendum campaign, and that's to say vote yes, to say vote against and to face arguments rather than actually a fundamental question of whether someone will collect signatures, and then when they collect signatures whether the Constitutional Court will allow a referendum, and when a referendum is allowed, then, as a rule, the result is certain. Therefore, this is not an excessively good instrument because an unsettled, non-transparent process, such as signing, is being thrown at the greatest part of the importance of this initiative. So we've been listening to all kinds of stories about how to collect signatures, that someone signed for others, that it's enough to give the number of IDs, that some signatures are signed from past referendum initiatives, etc., maybe that's, maybe it's not. We have a dispute over whether there were enough signatures for the two referendums and whether the Ministry of Administration determined exactly how many signatures there were and that it was crucial for the referendum to be called or not. I think this, as this is now prescribed, is better than it's proposed, better than it's prescribed, but this, we estimate that, we should not be afraid in this part of supporting the referendum initiative and the e-Citizen, so that may be, there may be some security issues here, but in any case benefiates are greater than these shortcomings and therefore the applicants would think about, for another reading. It is good that local referendums are also made possible in some ways. Someone asked at the beginning if a local referendum had succeeded, I remember only one in the municipality of Goric about the compost, indeed 50% of the voters came out. The second local referendum which has succeeded in the way that more than 50% of voters have come out, I cannot remember in, in this, in the long-term practice and monitoring of the referendum and this solution which therefore requires that the referendum succeed in, that the proposal should vote at least 1/3 of the total number of voters is appropriate. Maybe even 1/4, but this is a good solution, too, because that's why it devises the boycott of the referendum. So, when a referendum is called, no matter how much it comes out, if it comes out less than 2/3, and on 2/3, they don't even go out to the polls, in order for the referendum to succeed, it takes 1/3 of the total number of voters to vote. To conclude, therefore, the solutions proposed here in the good part are on the trail of the 2015 proposal which, unfortunately, was not adopted because it was not at the top of the priorities before the disbanding of HS in 2015 and in this sense, we find this proposal as a proposal in the first reading acceptable, of course, I believe that it will be, the amendments that will come to the final draft of the law. We are not reluctant to support such a proposal. We also accept that the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court better prescribes a way of questioning the constitutionality or legality of the referendum issue, and we believe that this should be regulated in a way that, after a certain legitimate,.../incomprehensible/... after a certain legitimacy which may be the collection of a certain number of signatures, or, which I think may also be considered, by supporting a certain number, e.g. 15 MPs in HS to avoid inflation and the closure of the Constitutional Court, so that a referendum issue can then be assessed. Many, many, many, few, will not say many, of the referendum issues that have been raised by signatures were, in my opinion, toxic and in the state, the state should in fact prevent the consumption of social energy and the creation of a climate of intolerance towards minorities, primarily towards minorities, which lasts for several months where actually legitimate interlocutors are those we know in advance that the issue is unconstitutional, but they get their media and other space and political, for a few months, so that it would not be good for the minority for the majority of neither for the state nor for anyone but for the petty political interests of those who profit on hate and I think it would be good to stop at one point collecting signatures Check the referendum question and then keep going. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you, Mr... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61063	Thank you, too. I thank you, too. And now it's Madam. Katarina Peovic, who will represent the positions of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here, you have to press me, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61064	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, to say that what's specific, let's say for my party is really this referendum democracy where we have experience of how it can work that way. So for those of you who don't know the Workers' Front that it's a direct democratic party means we don't have a president, we don't have a presidency, we don't mean some kind of headquarters, we have a referendum democracy, which means that by electronic means, in all the issues that matter, all the party members. It would be good if there were a little more such democracy at all levels. In any case, there is not enough democracy of the referendum either at local level or at national level. We have to say that the referendum doesn't just mean voting on a question. The referendum means, above all, a wide-ranging referendum debate in which people are asked means on the basis of the elaborated attitudes that are communicated in the public space. We certainly don't have enough referendum democracy. Let's just give examples of Iceland or Estonia, let's say, Estonia where, through their platform, everyone can propose an idea for parliament, and parliament discusses 15 of the most frequent issues every year, which shows that something like this is possible. In a lot of questions, what we're making here, we could ask the inhabitants themselves is that democratic majority, the working majority who thinks about what we're discussing here. In any case, such a decision is extremely important at local level. There are many cases so-called. The participatory budgeting around the world, many large cities of this rich let's say the West is practiced by such things as Paris, Reykjavik, Barcelona, Madrid, many large cities in the United States mean using this type of participatory democracy or participatory budgeting. So at the local level, the population is well aware of needs and there is much I can say to do with this data democracy. Our system of e-Citizens is a system that, for us, can be used to upgrade an e-Democratic platform, especially considering that now the partial censusing of the population has been carried out through that platform. The minister didn't detail, he would like us to have answers that are specific problems why you can't carry out a kind of referendum through an e-citizen because he always says that security isn't enough, maybe he could explain what that really means. What's the fact is, in the past, we've had a lot, a lot more local referendum democracy than we have today. A type of very important local referendum democracy was self-increasing. So the self-supply represented a much more democratic form of decision-making and financing of infrastructure projects through which, let's say, I remind you, built you, for example, the Tunel Učka, the Krčki Bridge, the Youth Hall, here's just to stop at Rijeka. What did it matter here? We allow all those who used meanings and who will use these infrastructures to decide first of all whether it is necessary or not. And therefore self-inheriting, which were forms of referendum response was always over 80% of registered voters. Today, only the mayor decides what infrastructure local projects are, and is financed through loans and bonds for 15, 20, 30 years, and will then be paid by all and generations who have not decided what and how it will be financed. In self-income, it was necessary in 5 years to finance from the part of the income tax of the majority of the infrastructure project, and above all it was important that it was infrastructure projects, which were decided by the majority. A minimum of 60% of voters were due for a referendum. Today, the mayor chooses, say, 15% of eligible voters and therefore has the legitimacy to decide on these infrastructure projects. So it's not just about corruption, clientelism, it's really about a man having a discretionary right to decide such things. Now that the referendum law means a downsizing of the number of signatures, I would point out three demands. The first is therefore on constitutionality, or on the verification of the constitutionality of each referendum issue before the signing, and not after. Second, the Assembly must request in all cases a check of constitutionality, not only if it so wishes. And third that the Constitutional Court should have a deadline for that assessment. Now, Article 36 states that constitutionality is being checked after the signing, so we think it would be good to check before. Why? First, the role of the Constitutional Court would be strengthened, in this way for many things such answers of the Constitutional Court would provide guidance for the adoption of various regulations. Secondly, before spending the resources for the collection of signatures, the answer would be whether or not it is constitutional or unconstitutional, there would no longer be a mass of dissatisfied people of a few hundred thousand, whose question has been declared unconstitutional after a sufficient number of signatures have been collected, and it also means that many questions are filtered in this way and indeed comes to the referendum only with questions to be asked or can be asked. I'm glad the minister announced this change. I don't know why this article was included in the 36th, why it didn't go into it immediately, but the minister announced that this would be adopted by the second reading. However, she would point out these other two problems. So this article is set out that the Council is sending the Constitutional Court an assessment of the constitutionality of the issue if it wishes and we know well how in 2013 the Assembly decided to call a referendum on the definition of marriage without constitutionality of the issue. It's important to point out that it's something that should be mandatory, not if the assembly wants it to. And thirdly, there is no time limit for the Constitutional Court to decide on the matter. I don't know why it doesn't mean the deadline, it should be the deadline within which the court has to decide, and now the minister has answered me today that one and the other question cannot be resolved by this law, but that only by constitutional court law is possible to regulate it means that the Assembly must, and cannot ask for an assessment of constitutionality, and define a deadline within which the Constitutional Court should give an opinion. But I have to admit, again, I don't understand why this couldn't be done, why wouldn't it already be in that article. In the 36th grade, if this is already followed, the constitutionality check shall be asked in all questions and put it before, before the signing or the gathering of the signatures themselves. And lastly, I can say that I believe that really this referendum democracy should be brought down to all levels, and I hope that such a heated debate and the number of MPs that were at the beginning of this debate, unlike the debates of working and working laws or laws relating to media and copyrights or laws that were related to the market, say, electricity where the assembly was empty from the outset, so I was almost wondering which parties were in the assembly at all, some parties were almost there, but here the party representatives decided to come to this debate. I hope that this debate on democracy, some start of debate and other issues, because obviously some issues are more popular than others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61065	- Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic will speak on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61066	Thank you to the president, my fellow MPs and MPs. In the part where this law creates a stable normative framework, it can be agreed that it is generally good. But because of two issues this law failed to regulate, which is an electronic way of collecting signatures and an electronic vote, this bill is also the defeat of a resolute minister and the defeat of the government as a whole. The laws to be passed must be adopted in accordance with the time in which the law is decided by looking ahead to the future, and this law finally resolves some issue that draws its tails from some past 10 years. It is a devastating fact because anything that could be praised as a principle of good by this law, such as the abolition of referendum silence, falls into the water before Karamarko could count to 5 and come up with the idea of digitisation because in this law neither does D of digitization exist. Thus, the minister of justice and administration showed that he is not ready and that he is not up to the challenges of time because he is only capable of writing what does not require too much wisdom, knowledge and vision, and has also shown that all the words about digitisation and digital transformation with which the government of Andrej Plenkovic filled all its national strategic documents with the mere flossules and pakin's facade. To introduce the possibility of an electronic way of collecting signatures and electronic voting, the minister is to be justified by technical difficulties. However, there are countries that have introduced these opportunities in the early 1990s such as Belgium, Brazil, Canada. For example, Switzerland uses electronic voting through a number of issues in its various cantons. Despite the difficulties and problems that really come with this system, it was possible to find appropriate solutions and thus give our companies an opportunity to show their knowledge, technological steps and to offer us some technologically more advanced solutions. At EU level, some countries are already being considered and the possibility of introducing electronic voting through blockchain technologies or those technologies that have gone and a step further and I don't know why there is such resistance in Croatia to all potential changes. The introduction of an electronic vote would also allow a number of groups which, for practical reasons so far, have been de facto excluded from the ability to vote to exercise their right to vote. These are, for example, armed forces, persons who are outside the Republic of Croatia as crew members, maritime and river ships under the flag of Croatia, voters who are deprived of freedom, voters who find themselves in peace operations and missions, for practical reasons, despite the fact that the law allows them very often do not have the right and real possibility of voting rights. Election legislation is the beginning of which all political processes and the entire state political and legal system originate. Through this electoral system come directly or indirectly all holders of state and other public functions, and this system is consumed by corruption. When I talk about corruption, I don't just mean alienating funds from public budgets, corruption is every form of depravity in which voter fraud should be involved. Corruption is also the process of creating and producing parliamentary tokens, and correcting all these phenomena requires reform of the entire electoral legislation. In doing so, the resolution of the referendum should only be a first step. I am therefore sorry that we missed the opportunity to introduce two very simple mechanisms that would actually enable the security of signing, faster, easier to facilitate the launch of referendum initiatives, and the country to have greater and stronger control of the referendum process. In any case, electronic voting would also encourage citizens to be involved in the process of pleading on referendum issues. Through several electoral processes, we have just become increasingly weak voters' turnout. In the past parliamentary elections where we who have now won our mandates, this turnout has been record low. Many have interpreted this worst response in the history of Croatian democracy as the message of voters to political elites. The voters are increasingly less trusted in old-timed political parties and political processes of representative democracy, and among those who still go to the polls there are many protest votes given not so much for a particular idea or programme as for an option that expresses anger and dissatisfaction, so they are a wave of votes against, not votes for. The result is the loss of confidence in HS as a representative body of citizens. In this criticism against the system, in this bitterness with the way we political elite and caste behave citizens have the right. How could they possibly believe that their problems will solve some assembly chair that is mostly part of the day and through an increasing number of discussions unfortunately empty? An empty assembly and the way it is discussed in the Assembly is one of the first images and first associations that appear in the minds of our citizens to mention the words of politics, as well as the few debates that a few MPs could reasonably lead to are disabled rules of the Rules of Procedure. HS stopped being a dialogue space and turned into a stage where MPs came to determine their share of monologues. And seeing this as well as looking at the widespread corruption in a society that this state does not suppress, it does, in a certain way, even rewards our citizens by calling for a referendum, thinking that it will correct injustice and fight for its own rights and interests when the political elite will not do so for them. And it is often not understood that a number of complex issues and a number of complex legal issues cannot always be addressed by a referendum. It is therefore important to build both political dialogue and political culture here in HS, which is based on the principle of accountability towards voters. And just these terms, the concepts of political dialogue, political culture, no responsibility to voters, we can hardly call on these concepts. Here in HS we are witnessing exactly the opposite processes, creating divisions and arguing where, by the logic of things, there should not be a cause for these disputes and divisions. Here, for example, there are no such concepts. So, the referendum is a fundamental instrument of direct democracy that gives voters the opportunity to directly decide on political issues of public interest, and how much political elite we are, in fact, in fact, in the present state authorities' right to the instrument and to the citizens' right to refer to the referendum, is best seen from the fact that this law on referendum is in line with the constitutional amendments of 2010, but if we are to be completely honest then we should say that this law regulates what was missing from the Constitution in the 1990s. It took decades for us to come up with a law in accordance with constitutional provisions from the time those constitutional provisions came into force. Now, from that angle, what this law brings is a good solution to what I should have said in 2010 or, perhaps, back in the '90s, but unfortunately, this law does not create a framework for affordable initiation and accessible implementation of the referendum in accordance with the requirements and needs of the digital age in which we all live. One of the parts of this bill that can be praised is the new role of the new task and new powers of the State Election Commission. It is one of the few institutions that has succeeded despite political attempts to build as independent and in their work processes in their power to implement more advanced IT solutions well. I think that this law should further strengthen the role and powers of the DIP, for example by assigning the DIP rather than the Secretary-General the role of drawing up the accompanying regulations necessary for the implementation of this law, and I also think that the time has come to ask the question, and in whose hands it is necessary to keep the database on the register of voters up to date. Based on the experience we have so far, we may be able to make one twist and a change of practice, as well as that power in a certain way assigned to the DIP, rather than to the resolution minister, and thus to the executive authority and the political option at that time in power. We will be easier to trust independent institutions that have shown themselves and proved such in their work, and those field checks and initial databases can provide them with and enable the MUP bases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61067	Now it's Mr. Nino Rasdic who's the first to have an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61068	My colleagues and fellow MPs. In order to hold one election in Krajigujevac in 1996, local official Živorad Nesic, the journalists asked Jadu how elections are going, whether there are irregularities, to which the official of Milosevic's party replied, when the elections are well-organised people do not even have to go out on them. Paraphrasing, I would say, when the referendum question is properly dimensioned, the term used in assessing the situation in the draft of this law, so when the question is adequately dimensioned, whether the people will go out or not. Now we've heard some suggestions, a run-in from the left wing to the rulings who will look and adopt it, which is that the Constitutional Court discusses in advance before the signing is asked whether the issue is in accordance with the Constitution, and we know how the Constitutional Court is tailored. What would that mean in practice? So that would mean that we could play with the Constitutional Court and do some false initiatives, bury them monthly with a hundred of some sort of referendum questions that they have to meet to discuss whether it's constitutional or not, so it's complete in the practice of nonsense. However, when we mention the Constitutional Court’s assessment of the situation, the Constitutional Court’s decision of 20 October 2020, which is worth more reading and reanalysing in that decision, warns the Constitutional Court that the applicable law is underdeveloped and that it contains shortcomings, inconsistencies and inconsistencies which require its improvement. But let's look at the shortcomings, which the Constitutional Court emphasizes. It stresses, quote, that legal disadvantages open an objective possibility of neglecting or playing the said voter's will. neglecting the voter's will and playing the voter's will. None of this news in this proposal addresses anything from these problems, which apparently led in practice to the neglect and act of the voter's will. And even with the last moves, which is that the people decide one thing in the referendum and the fact that the next day, by ruling in the law, installs something completely different, as if the referendum were guided by a definition or a word of what it means and not the substance to which it refers. The 10% threshold is set in the Constitution in those times, it is too high, unprecedented in democratic Western countries, I think it needs to be brought down, is it 5%, we can talk about it, but we can already agree in this Parliament's meeting, achieve a two-thirds majority, and bring that threshold down, bring it down wisely. As for the electronic signing one as well as the electronic vote, we haven't heard from the minister any excessive argument, he's talking about some security, we know that over the token we can enter banking, into the E-Citizen system so I don't see anyone being stolen online money. So, the thing works very well, the thing is sure, it can be provided additionally and also when collecting an electronic signature, very easy to install and program that I don't know, for 10% or 20% or even for anyone who has signed over an E-Citizen you can confirm that you have given your signature and that they click "yes" and that the thing has been checked. So, the thing is perfectly simple, ruling it does not want to introduce it despite the recommendations of the Venice Commission and despite having examples like Estonia that have been using it for 16 years, for elections let alone for something as simple as giving an e-signature. The question of the location of the signature was not well solved, it was left to local rapists, I don't like to use the term sheriffs because it offends positive sheriffs like Wyatt Earp was others, but local rapists like Obersnel in Rijeka who didn't let him sign because he didn't like the referendum issue, he was above the people, now they're left arbitrarily to determine which location that might be. So now I determine I don't know, the locations at the top of Zagreb's skyscraper in Zagreb's square, the elevator will be broken, and who wants to go on foot or some meadow outside the city, a nice idea, and this didn't occur to you? It is necessary to make a decision that all public areas in the Republic of Croatia can collect signatures and that is simply settled. So, instead of simplifying the matter as much as possible with some inaccessible signature or a short name, if there is an OIB, to seek a way to recognise the signature and to allow the will of the citizens, every possible way not to be recognised, to cancel the signature, and to return to my initial thesis that in mature democracies, the Law on Referendum serves to enable and edit the referendum and the code seems to be disabled. Therefore, in this form, this law absolutely cannot be supported because it does not solve key issues that concern the local level of signing reduction, perhaps it would be prudent of 10%, or I have heard a sound proposal from HDZ, depending on the size of the local unit to solve it at different degrees, or to initiate an agreement to change both the Constitution and reduce some reasonable one, there does not have to be 1.5% as in Italy or 2% as in Slovenia or Poland, be 5%, but to reduce that threshold. To allow through E-Citizens what was happening at the signing, to sign and to freely collect signatures on every public surface in Croatia. If this goes into the law, we can back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61069	Thank you. You have replicas, wait. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Rasudiæ, you say from the current referendum practice and from reading this text of the law, so it seems to me that your impression that we only adequately dimension the referendum issue can pass, otherwise it will be closed and disabled. You were not there while I was speaking on behalf of the club, so in my presentation, I showed that any referendum issue raised by citizens we call the People's Citizens' Initiative, if it fulfilled the required number of signatures regardless of whether or not in accordance with the Constitution, fulfilled its purpose, because both the Government and the Assembly have virtually anti-cipated this referendum issue with their amendments to the law. Therefore, in practice so far, I would not agree with you that it is necessary to carry out the referendum, if that was the question... dimensionally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61071	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61072	When I was talking about the appropriate dimensioning of the question, I was thinking about this, this procurement that comes to you from your left wing from colleague Peovic, which is that in advance, before collecting the signatures to discuss the Constitutional Court, no... form, form is fine, is it in a form where it can be set to be clearly written than the content itself before collecting the signature is acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And otherwise I had this experience by participating, I can advertise public television and show The Fifth Day where several public intellectuals discussed current topics, at the very beginning of my participation a young colleague, the prominent left intellectual in Croatia kept talking about direct democracy. Direct democracy is a direct democracy, he was bored with it more, when that referendum started in 2013, suddenly not a direct democracy, when he estimated that the people would not make a decision and what we heard from his colleague, Peovic, so he would not expect it from the left, but rather, it sounds like some reactionary right from the time after the French revolution that would undo the equality of all citizens before the law and the people as bearer of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61073	Thank you very much. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61074	So, at the outset, I must, of course, look back at what my colleague Bacic said, that indeed every referendum issue has fulfilled its purpose because the government has been anticipating it and later making some legislative changes. We'd have a completely different electoral system to begin with, so the question is, would you and I be looking here today? So it's very simple, if the government really wants to listen to the citizens, regardless of this crazy threshold, which is why we have to change the 10% constitution when it sees it's 100 grand, let alone 200 or 300 grand. It is authorised, if it does not want to accept the referendum issue and call this type of referendum, to call an advisory referendum to really see what citizens think in many other issues. And I'd like to ask you one other thing. We went to the Resistance and recovery plan, we got a lot of money for digitality. So no obstacles to the official should have been to e-mail our voting system And yet you're not going that way. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61075	Thank you very much. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61076	I have no explanation, so there are all technical and security requirements that both e-Signing and e-Plasing are introduced into Croatia, and we have practical proof now of this wonderful response by citizens, almost 50%, if I have good data with the last day that they signed, so we have answered about 20 questions, we have done something much more complex than giving an e-Signing, yes, to sign and almost or vote, which is simpler than this. For example, if e-Citizens could get into e-Citizens through banking tokens, that there were no embezzlements, no money alienation, no hacker attacks, too, it says there are no risks on that side. Now, it's just a question, and it's another thing that he left me, as it stands with our servers, whether they're in our hands and under our control or whether they're controlled by some other states, thanks to some companies that are large in the majority state property of other countries. But that's a whole other question. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61077	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61078	Thank you. I was hoping that today's debate would serve to bring out some proposals from the opposition to liberalise the referendum, make available citizens, and today we are actually in the process of having one coalition, not only of the HDZ and the SDSS, but of the HDZ coalition and the Workers' Front where proposals are announced that should make it impossible for citizens to plead on some issue. So even before citizens begin to collect signatures to show their position on a question, this Constitutional Court, which is created by shameful trade means of HDZ and SDP, should decide whether or not citizens can raise a particular question at all, and as you said, we have this procurement from the right of the Workers' Front and today a coalition of the HDZ and the Workers' Front, so here, I want to know how you comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61079	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61080	Perhaps counterpart Peovic went so far to the left that she broke out on the right, but such an attitude is indeed the attitude of the historical reaction. These are reactionaries on the right, so those who feel that they should return to some old times when the people are not the bearer of sovereignty as they are in our Constitution than when some enlightened minority click knows better than the people what is good for them and what should be done. But that's what we have in Marxist tradition, isn't it? So,.../incomprehensible/... it was legitimate to call for proletaries, to the working people, but it doesn't know the working people itself, but the left intellectual knows better than the proletarian, which is his interest, and he will articulate and represent him politically, and will make it impossible for him to have any option of multiparty elections or referendums, in this case, that this proleter, the people, as you will, this basis of legitimacy, will show himself what he wants and what he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61081	You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Branko Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61082	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State and my colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. What I would like to say on behalf of myself in this debate, is that all morning during this debate, I have not heard a more serious remark on this Law, but is, in fact, semi-communicated with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and with the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. The government has been established in its own business with a proposal for an act that must be brought into line with the Constitution, and there is a dilemma whether to leave undernourished, disorderly conduct in the process,.../incomprehensible/... a special statement of the citizens, as so far as it has been, not to comply with the 4th amendment of the 2010 Constitution or in HS, or perhaps in the public life and political life of Croatia to comment on something that is not yet in the procedure. Therefore, we at the HDZ Representatives' Club said that what was said during the morning was about amendments to the Constitution. But we also said that these amendments to the Constitution that would go towards 3 essential elements that are heard here this morning in the debate, which should be amended by the Constitution, refer to the censorship of the signatures collected to activate the referendum, the second quorum of the decision-making process, or the half-way of the number of voters or a certain percentage of the total number of voters in Croatia, and the third thing is whether and what basis on the referendum can be questioned. Therefore, it is something why the HDZ Representatives Club is open to these possibilities, but we also know that I am already saying in advance that given the fact that such changes need not 76 or 39 MPs, as is necessary for some other acts, but that they need 101 MPs, which means a lot of political options in this segment will have to act, and given the particular interests of individual political parties, their political programmes, their view of forming a Croatian government whether we are talking about regionalisation, whether we are talking about electoral law, whether we are talking about the number of representatives from the 11th electoral unit, whether we are talking about the number of national minorities, whether we are talking about how we vote, etc., that we now know that such a change of the Constitution will go very, very broadly. I didn't mention the issue of forming local self-government, etc. So these are all legitimate issues that open the debate on amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but this and this solution to the amendment of the Constitution in my opinion cannot be an obstacle for us to bring good, quality and within the framework of the Constitution of the Law on Referendum. That's the important difference between what we at the Advocacy Club and what we're trying to answer during the morning to something that isn't at all, can't, can't be the question of the Law of Referendum while the Constitution is like this. And ours, our position that we are open above all because it seems to us that it is simpler, more appropriate to amend the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court is our quality good approach because it also needs 101 hands. Therefore, is this coming from the left, from the centre of the initiative that would further strengthen the possibility of direct decision-making of citizens to the Republic of Croatia in the referendum is welcome. So we move that in this case there are HDZ coalitions and the far left of those who in the past few months have collated around Croatia with the farthest left of strange coalitions, it seems a little deplaced to me and we could talk about it very, very much. Not to speak here in the Croatian Parliament where we daily reject laws that sign the far right with the far left. We're such laws up here on, here at discuss as much as you want. I now have no time to give them the example of one, one co-existence in political space here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61083	Thank you, thank you very much. Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61084	Well, my colleague Bacic, I really don't think you're going to go so left to co-ordinate with the Workers' Front. As we see now in the debate on the Law in Reconstruction you are more centre-left to go towards We can and the future coalition than you are going towards the Workers' Front, so I find such accusations entirely unfounded. The other thing I'm trying to say is, you didn't hear any serious remarks about the referendum bill, so here I'll tell you again because maybe I didn't hear correctly that you didn't hear. Which is inconclusive in asking for a local referendum to cut the 20% threshold that practically makes it impossible. The example of the City of Zagreb may be the simplest, where you will have 20% of the signatures and more than for the state referendum to call the locals. What is unserious about this and what did you not hear when you were looking for the electronic ability to vote? And I personally think it should be put down. and lower to the part of the area [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Local units on this in an individual debate. [[Thank you very much, Mrs. Selak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61085	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Selak Rasdic, don't worry HDZ won't be a MOST to co-ordinate with the left political parties here in the Croatian Parliament. As for the local referendum, you seem to be late for the hearing. My first replica this morning, the first replica to come out of the HDZ ranks, was a recommendation to the government and the minister to consider the graduation for the second reading, the construction of the censors needed to collect signatures for the implementation of the local referendum, depending on the unit of local self-government. So that's the attitude and me personally, and I believe the HDZ Representatives Club. Everything else, including what you are now talking about, when it comes to voting, electronic voting is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where it is prescribed and how the right to participate is exercised in the list in a referendum relating to the territorial principle [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and he is necessary in the Republic of Croatia. [[Thank you very much, sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61087	Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61088	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear counterpart Bačić, here is just to get attached to my colleague Rasudiæ, so just now fellow parliamentary representative Rasudiæ praised HDZ and the proposal for a graduation that we have carried out through replicas and resolute ministers and 428 municipalities from at least a few hundred residents to Viskov who has 14 and a half thousand and certainly needs a graduation to reduce abuse in small municipalities where practically one extended family could conduct and conduct a referendum every day. On the other hand, we haven't heard anything concrete that this law makes bad, although at first reading today we have a consensus regarding the extension of deadlines and the reduction of how much it will take at local level, but also on the issue of both the legal framework and security and the State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61089	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61090	Article 238, demeaning parliamentary representatives. So let's do it again. After his colleague Bacic said that he had not heard any serious remarks in the replica, he himself said that he had made an extremely serious remark on the current proposal for a referendum law and it concerns a universal censorship of 20% for the local referendum, although it comes from the ruling coalition that this law proposed to the Croatian Parliament. That's the way The form of conduct is indeed a demeaning [[Thank you very much.]] I'm like a councilwoman. [[Thank you very much, thank you very much, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61091	Thank you very much. No one has been disdaining anyone, and you have replicated, and you have a warning, so you have a warning. Don't throw away, you have two warnings, don't throw away, no recommendation, my recommendation. Sir, you have to answer now, please, no, you've already answered, Mr. Shashin. Whose fault is the Rules of Procedure? [[Bukarica raid: A breach of the Rules of Procedure can.]] [[Bačić: A is not registered, not registered.]] Whose? [[Bačić: A is not registered, not registered.]] I didn't register it, yours? Which one? Do you have any injuries to your Rules of Procedure? All right, here you go. [[Major raid : Injury of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61093	So the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Chairman. My colleague Rasudiæ did not mention the article, but she did not indicate to anyone the injury of the Rules of Procedure whether to me who spoke before her or to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61094	Well, she got Mrs. Selak Rasdic's notice, so I have to give you a warning, is that a sanctioned yes? How much is that worth? [[Intruder Bačić: Replication response.]] Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague should be correct, precise, colleague Selak Rasudiæ listed the article only wrongly injure the Rules of Procedure, not Mr. Mažara, on whom she raised the tile but me, but we do know each other at times a little bit and execute ourselves in the Assembly obviously. Therefore, my colleague Mažar, if you were right, we said this first thing this morning, and my view is that 20% of voters are required to launch a referendum in Zagreb and in large, even in smaller cities, and in units of local and regional self-government, i.e. regional self-government. County. There is a need for this censorship to be created in order not to flood some small units of local self-government referendum, but on the other hand to fulfil that constitutional right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and there we are, as a club, absolutely supporting And we suggest that we think about it until the second reading. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61096	Thank you very much. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61097	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bacic. Here is the fact that in the Republic of Croatia in recent years we have a relatively small number of initiatives, mainly at the local level to call and implement the referendum, in favour of citizens probably being satisfied with the degree of democracy or the possibility of decision-making and participation in the decision-making of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia. Given that these proposed amendments significantly simplify the procedures and procedures for calling or referendum initiatives, do you believe that there will be an increase in the number of these initiatives at both local and national level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61098	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61099	I'd like to thank my colleague, Shashin. So it is not only possible to propose and call a local referendum on citizens, the law stipulates that the council of local committees can, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, can one-third of the council, make a clear decision then by most council members. So in local units there is a really small number, relatively small number given the number of units of local self-government. But for example, in my Dubrovnik-Neretva County, there was an extremely successful local referendum in the City of Ploca where over 80% of the citizens appeared to me, and 95% supported the referendum issue. There have been some more successful referendums, though little and I think it is necessary to enable the flexibility, to facilitate access to the referendum in a way that still reduces that censorship where justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61100	Thank you. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61101	I am not personally interested in my colleague Bačić's preference to your initiative by the RF, Mrs Peović, the SDSS, to limit certain questions of the referendum. I am interested in local referendums that are very difficult to come to as a question in Croatia. Why not equalize to 10% as at national level the number of signatures of all adult citizens in the area? That's the key question. Key question why must a signature be gathered in Zagreb if... Mayor of the City of Zagreb to become mayor? So who's gonna collect 100,000 signatures? So in my Sinj to be a referendum, we would no longer feel born to us who govern the cities and municipalities of the triba to ease the referendums, It is the will of the people, let the people decide [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] initiatives. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61102	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61103	Col. Bulj, and now the Constitution provides for the possibility of HS asking the Constitutional Court about the constitutionality of the issue. So, that provision is now in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because if it were not for it, there would be no such pre-questionation. It is only said here whether it is politically opportunised to ask the question post-festum after the use of strong social energy, a large number of people with found that a particular issue is not in line with the Constitution. In order to establish, in the beginning, that the whole process should not be included and thus acted. But it's decided again with 101 MPs, so it's not possible to approach it without 101 hands. I don't think it's a good thing that when it's all over in the end that it's determined [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] that something's unconstitutional. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61104	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61105	Thank you. Dear colleague Bacic. This about the local referendum, so we warned a few days ago at a press conference, you realized what a failure you've made with this law where you're actually asking that in the City of Zagreb to call a referendum you must collect signatures of how many Tomašević received votes and now you suggest that when you saw us stand up here against it, you suggest some sort of graduation. I don't see why in Sinj, in my Metkovic, in Petrinja, there would be conditions for calling a referendum different from the City of Zagreb? And how can local referendums do that, how can they require the same number of signatures as for some national issues, let alone twice as big as you suggested. It's something we won't agree to, just as we won't agree to this anti-referendum coalition of HDZ and the Workers' Front, which is the power of the people and which comes from the people that wants to pass on to your trade constitutional court. You're not gonna get away with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61106	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61107	As much as you are trying to convince, first of all, you and you in the Bridge about potential coalitions, the fact is that the only bridge across Croatia coalitions with the left in a very, very, very large number of units.../incomprehensible/... and with the far left and left, that is a fact. All over Croatia, therefore, you are now trying to wash yourself a little, transfer such a thing to HDZ, which will not work. As for the graduation I was talking about, there is already construction, so for example, the City of Zagreb has more representatives than some unit of local self-government councillors. The powers of the City of Zagreb are much greater than any other city, they are numerous, many laws are regulated by such graduations in conduct, in decision-making, as we have suggested that a censorship should be defined for the launch of the referendum. It's not new, we've been thinking about it, and in the end we'll hear what they're going to do. The government and what the law will look like. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61108	The next replica is the respected representative Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61109	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Representative Bacic. As the organisational president, i.e. the president of the organisational committee of the latest referendum initiative Protect the Croatian Kuna, the problems of this current referendum law are visible. Unfortunately you haven't taken a big step forward, the other day I mentioned, that's one limping step behind which the other leg somehow drags behind that first one. The problem that colleagues have already mentioned is that 10%, that is, the percentages in collecting signatures that are extremely difficult to collect, but we are not afraid of. But I would say the bigger problem in this whole story is also a key issue, when and in what way the HDZ Government will bring in the necessary amendments to the Law on the Registration of Voters and the lists of voters. Until we get rid of it. We don't even have to talk about [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] quotas for signatures. [[Employed: Dear Representative Bačić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61110	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Milanovic Litter, this bill would certainly make access to the referendum initiative she announced, which you announced. Therefore, the requirement to pass a law within 15 days so that an initiative that, as I hear it announced for October 24 is truly unrealistic. Really unreal. Therefore, if the referendum initiative collects a certain number, the required number of votes, we will decide here in HS how and how to proceed with this initiative. Now, until I see a referendum question, until I know which direction and how it will be defined, I can't really answer what you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61112	A representative of Milanovic litre has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61113	Art. 238, so counterpart Bacic mentioned that our initiative would apply to this law. It's simply not true, we'll work under an old law that's worse than this, I have to admit worse is, not much, but worse, so there won't be the same conditions as prescribed under the new law, there won't be 30 days of signing, and the only reason why this law today, now at the hearing in HS is because of our initiative and trying to wash all your government's sins according to the previous referendum initiatives. [[Agreement: Col. Milanović litre.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61114	You know you've abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure and you're being warned. The next replica is the respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61115	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you were talking about local referendums. So far, as far as I've sent five such referendums, it means that even by this law, they were possible, in Fužine, in Gorican, in Dubrovnik, in Ploča, in Labin, 4 did not pass because it wasn't enough to get out of the citizens, one passed in the plates when they rebelled at that thermo power plant, I think the size of 800 megawatts and there the citizens came out,... And it didn't happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that even under the existing law, the referendums were possible. What I support in code and in your debate is certainly that graduation, I would reduce it to large cities, and.../incomprehensible/... less and the municipalities would leave in another group because there were tried referendums and they were achieved. This is for big cities, it is for thinking and the ministry, and as far as this joyous conservative left is concerned by the Bridge, their simple action at local and regional level shows that they are very supportive of the SDP, especially dear President Zoran Milanovic and all that comes from the left, and there are only to pass votes. Right and [[Intruder: Thank you.]] For the purpose of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Left. [[Intruder: Answer...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61116	...the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61117	I thank my colleague, Boric. First of all, let me tell my colleague Milanovic Litra that he or she did not listen or understand it, I said that this law is in force so that you can implement the initiative around the euro, so that you can have access to the number of votes more easily and quickly, and that you can be able to come at an opportunity to discuss it in HS. That's what I said. You heard it wrong. As for the local referendum, you are absolutely right, fellow Boric, it is not the same in the municipality of 800 voters and in the City of Zagreb the voting process. Realistically, it is not easy to raise 160 thousand and there should be a dramatic, drastic reduction of censorship, and there in small municipalities where it could come almost daily to an initiative to collect signatures around some initiatives, should be considered well. That's where I agree with you. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61118	The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61119	Here, I have to say, I'm honored by this team, this panic in the ranks of the Bridge that the Workers' Front is going to co-ordinate with HDZ, but I think it's clear to everyone here that it's not going to happen. The bridge is a party that has co-ordinated with HDZ. But let's clarify the basics of that proposal that your minister said he would still accept the Workers' Front and the same number of requests would be accepted by the Most, so there is really no privilege of the Workers' Front. So what we're asking for, that the Constitutional Court is determined according to the referendum issue only after or before, is the question, whether after the signing or before the signing, the Constitutional Court will be shown about the meaning of the character and constitutionality of the referendum issue. Already there is that the Constitutional Court should be manifested, it is foolish that it must be manifested after people have collected hundreds of thousands of signatures and that, I am glad Minister Malenica accepted, but two of our proposals did not accept, One of them is that the Constitutional Court has less time to answer. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61120	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Selak Rasdic has broken the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61121	Art. 238, disdaining parliamentary representatives. It's completely unclear to me, the HDZ chased us to the left, and the left brought us back to HDZ. The only thing I can conclude from this is that first of all, everyone wants to come with us and secondly, colleagues, I have to tell you that you know what your coalition is with, there are colleagues you're sending love arrows with now, and secondly, if you go with HDZ, you'll end up with We can because you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61122	Thank you very much. You know very well that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and the foundation of an article. I give you a reminder by taking away the word. We have, now we're going to the next debate, and, excuse me, the answer, please, here's a response from the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61123	Thank you. My colleague Peović, I am pleased that you are racing together and third in the coalition with HDZ, we are not thinking about it, so that you can be calm, you will be in opposition to both this and another mandate, and you and Most, therefore, have no need to court us in the Croatian Parliament. As far as this is concerned, the Constitution has already defined that the right of the Croatian Parliament after it has been established that a sufficient number of votes or voters' signatures have been collected, the Constitutional Court has asked whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution. This is not news, nor does it need any initiative. Yours, what you suggested, was yesterday a speech on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system not to engage great social energy in Croatia. It employs 300, 400, 500, 600 000 citizens in signing something that later the Croatian Parliament will say to one or another or another in the Constitutional Court in this convocation to another or third, about it being unnecessary because it is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61124	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Since we have now been an hour, we will now make a small break in this point and continue as is the custom of taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. Now we're going to go back to our wheel that we ended up breaking up for a while, so we're going to have an individual debate and now we're going to talk to the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61126	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President. Of all the suggestions here we could hear, which we as the Mosta Club sent a few days ago and presented to the Croatian public regarding the reduction of the threshold, therefore, of 10% of the census. Of course, it is necessary to go to the amendments to the Constitution. The reduction of this threshold does not require a constitution for a local referendum where 20% is now required which actually sends a message that some local issues are more important than national issues and which is absolutely inappropriate because this threshold should be lower than this national threshold, than that we have sought e-signing, so since we have seen now and in this list that almost 50% of our citizens have taken advantage of this possibility and self-signed. So these are all the things that we have asked for in the context of the amendment to this referendum law, which is the thing that the proposal is, by ruling, ready to accept, by ruling the HDZ. A proposal coming from the extreme left of the Workers' Front that is heading towards not liberalisation and greater availability of the referendum, but limiting the referendum. So, before the referendum initiative begins to collect signatures to the Constitutional Court and that which they have smuggled through trade between the HDZ and the SDP, it decides whether citizens can even collect signatures. And so it is not that we believe in the people and the people's will, but in that statement by Ingrid Antičević Marinović "pipl fat trast as" we should believe in the Chamber of Commerce, we should believe in the Mlakara that is falsely represented in Austria and I cannot come to myself that Katarina Peović more believes in the HDZ of Mlakar, who falsely represented himself in Austria than the Croatian people, that she believes more in Ingrid Antičević Marinović than in the Croatian people. I understand that Boric believes more in Mlakar. It is clear to me that Boric believes more in Plenkovic than in the dear God, but I do not understand that Katarina Peović believes more in Mlakar than in the Croatian people. This anti-referendum coalition that we have in the Croatian Parliament today, that anti-referendum coalition of HDZ, SDSS and the Workers' Front will try to narrow it down. We will not allow them to go into legal changes that would deprive the people of the right to speak up on certain issues. So the referendum should be more accessible to the citizens. The referendum should be liberalised, not looking for ways to prevent citizens from expressing their democratic will. As I said in my replica, the American Constitution is the foundation of the American state. In Croatia, the Croatian Constitution is not. The foundation of the Croatian state is the people because the Constitution says that the government originates from the people. Why are you people afraid? Why do you have such fear of the people? Is the Workers' Front that sympathises communism and the communists afraid of the people because they're actually used to one leader deciding everything in communism? Did HDZ have the fear of the people because hundreds of thousands of those who had a party card went to HDZ? Why the fear of the people? We're going through, so fellow Troscott has now introduced me to this, he's given three conclusions on this law that requires precisely these amendments and the liberalisation of the referendum itself, meaning a 10% reduction of the threshold, the local referendum, so also, e-signing. Also before the adoption of this new law, since you have acknowledged that you have stolen these two referendums, it is necessary to access the new count of signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61127	We've got more replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61128	Thank you very much. A fellow Grmoy of the people's will is expressed in a referendum and in the democracies he, the old democracies, is a basic asset mostly at local levels. Local referendums are very difficult to pass in Croatia. And here I am as mayor of Sinj City would be delighted to have as many referendums on certain decisions as possible, and to emerge from the people. And the leaders themselves, who are born from birth, should be appointed not to be born. However, here is the question of the link between the Workers' Front, Mr. Here, Katarina Peovic and Mr. Boric, probably they agreed that a referendum should be limited, that the Constitutional Court should be held, but the judiciary is progressing. Here, nobody's faster than me because of DJ, which I was letting go, when there were 105 thousand people in Sinj for Sinj's Alka, so I played a few songs, they were just fantastic blues, the guests were happy, you see, the judiciary already called me and it was already this state's main debate. So you can see that the judiciary is working, but the question is how for whom.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61129	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61130	So, dear colleague Bulj, it is quite clear that you will stand up to these foolish measures of the Staff, that you will be struck by the Croatian judiciary, before those who have drawn great money from the Croatian state will come to that blow. So what is important here is that we have here today in force, namely in HS, an anti-referendum coalition of HDZ and the Workers' Front that wants to disable the referendum, and on the other hand we have representatives of the people of the Most, which means to the last atom of our strength to defend the right of citizens to plead on all important issues and to have their voice heard here and here in the HS public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61131	A respected representative, Peovic, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61132	Yes, point 238, I have to react, really, I didn't mean it, and I have no intention of constantly raising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but this has already been repeated, I would say, not only to belittled, but also to abuse the MP because the constant repetition of lies becomes true, so it's about the HDZ agreeing to sooner, and not later, when 300 thousand signatures are collected, seek constitutionality of the referendum issue. You've also been accepted by a series of things, but you keep making up the same thesis and stop doing it because you're simply repeating something that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61133	Thank you. You know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If someone's lying or telling the truth or you think he's lying, uh, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure anyway, so I have to give you a heads-up about it. My friend Bulj, you're the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure? That'll be your third injury if you break warning if you are in breach [[Agreement: It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.]] Rules of Procedure. [[Agreement: It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.]] What? Go ahead. [[Agreement: It is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61134	Thank you very much, Vice President. 238 where you essentially deny a colleague of Grmoy taking us out of Mosto, bringing out the fact that you have the same attitude about the referendum, you, a colleague of Boric, a colleague of Bačić and HDZ. That's the same attitude, you want to limit the referendum and that's what you're saying. So you're saying it's a lie, no, it's true, you want to limit the referendum along with HDZ. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj, first of all...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61135	...I gave my colleague Peovic a warning. And what she said and that, as she said, etc., had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I am your foundation. 240th century 2 points out a reminder by subtracting a word until the end of the debate on this subject. They'll answer, we now have a replica of the respected representative of Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61136	Dear counterpart Grmoja, it is impossible to discuss the referendum today without returning to 2018 when the taste of stolen referendums remained bitter. We have to mention all those people who unfortunately had to collect their signatures on the ironing boards under the candles. So we have to mention all the efforts of all the people who have been collecting signatures in those places. We must therefore mention that the efforts of our citizens who came to places to sign, we must mention that never the mayors of Rijeka and Samobor responded because the days of people of the city of Rijeka and Samobor were stolen to plead on the referendum. Neither did Minister Kuščević, who swore to the Constitution and the law that he would protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so that they could plead on the referendum initiatives and this censorship, which is highest in Europe and in the world, remained the same. It is impossible to pass this law without putting it in the context of referendum initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61137	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61138	At that time, we had one broad anti-referendum front of HDZ-SDSS-SDP-HSS against the referendum, which required amendments to the Electoral Law. A wide anti-referendum front. Today it is again here we have in force and what we advocate are changes to the Constitution, but the changes to the Constitution that go towards greater availability of the referendum, and what do they suggest? Changes that go to disable the referendum. Do you know what they did when they changed the Constitution together here, just as they jointly agreed on the composition of this Constitutional Court? They have reduced the number of representatives of the Croatian people in BiH they have forgotten, and I will speak more about it here at HS tomorrow. They did it, so they kept doing it. It chokes the will. [[Thank you very much. Replica, Your Honor...]] Croatian peoples and their right to plead. [[Intruder: Thank you very much!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61139	Now there's a word of respected representative Peovic, I ask you to stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61140	The ultimate hypocrite. The party that has co-ordinated twice with HDZ, which could change everything you're talking about here, accuses the Workers' Front that has never co-ordinated with HDZ and will never co-ordinate with HDZ, a representative who entered this House so that in front of the Parliament she has experienced violence by HDZ MPs, verbal violence, you have the cheeks to call for a coalition. But because of the people who listen to this, I'll do it again. And now it is possible to ask the Constitutional Court whether the referendum issue is constitutional or not. What the Workers' Front suggested, to be before, not after the signing. Well, that should do you good. So, 300 thousand signatures come together and then it comes to the question of whether it's a referendum issue constitutionally or not, so it's better to ask before. I even said, you shouldn't leave people disappointed. They must have the opportunity to collect signatures. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61141	It seems to me that colleague Troscott has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61142	Art. 238, I just wanted to point this debate out that there were no coalition talks, but that we were suggesting that the Workers' Front in some things agreed with HDZ, and the example was the HGK, so we're not talking about coalitions, but therefore in certain positions where the Workers' Front agreed with HDZ, that was the main point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61143	Dear Troscott, read the Rules of Procedure and you will see that the orientation of the discussion is not an injury.../incomprehensible/... Rules of Procedure. I'm giving you a warning. Honorable representative of the Grmoy, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61144	Well, I'm sorry, colleague Peovic, that you feel called, but all of what I'm saying is not directed at you, it's aimed at the HDZ that has accepted your position. So it's not about me claiming that you're going to join a coalition with HDZ or that you're going to raise your hands for the budget or that you've sold yourself in any way, so that's not what I've been saying or ever will. I just want to say that you're in favour of making a referendum out of me, because why? It's not the same when, before you started collecting signatures from the trade and political constitutional court tells you that you can't collect signatures or when you collect 400,000 signatures, then that political trade court will think a little bit about what decision they're going to make since 400 thousand people have signed something. That's what this is all about, and that's what the HDZ is really about, and that's why it supports you. I want to tell you to change your attitude. /Speaker disabled./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61145	Thank you very much. He's a friend of Grumo's. Thank you very much, let's stop at last. The replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61146	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Grmoy, you're talking about trust or faith in the peoples in politics or political parties. You, Grmoya. Oh, my God, Petrov. Is there any greater deception than the two of you? Well, you signed up with the public notary so you wouldn't be collating with the HDZ or the SDP. The other day, you ran under cover of the night into the Ban Courts and signed a coalition with HDZ. Twice. And you're talking about the deception of the people. So is there anyone that did this in Croatian politics? No one. You sign something that says, verify the public notebook, come and form power with those you said you wouldn't. It's no big deal. It was only when you got the screamer from Plenkovic, when you were expelled from power because we realized that you are Milanović's remote, that you are Puljkov's chip, that you and such are trying to cheat on the Croatian people with pulism, lies, hypocrisy, you will talk about who to believe or not. The People Show Faith [[Thank you very much.]] You're in the election, and you're away, you're away. [[Thank you very much.]] of which and such HDZ [[Intruder: Thank you.]] colleague of Grumo [[Intruder: Dear Representative...]] You're the last one who can speak [[- I'm sorry. - I'm sorry.]] of Faith [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Boric...]] Because you're hypocritical. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61147	Enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61148	Mr. Boric, you ran after us then. We were hoping we'd get no such result, we were facing enormous responsibility, so then, there was a question of what to do. And I am not running that we have made certain mistakes in this inexperience, but we are the only ones and remember you, and all those who watch, the only political option in Croatia's history that has signed here for the disbandment of the parliament and thanks to the Most for the first time we went to early elections, to get fewer representatives in these early elections than we had in the previous session. No one's ever done that, but it's interesting how you're accusing me of a coalition with HDZ, as if it means collating with HDZ might be something criminal. So here's what Agent Boric of the HDZ says is that coalition with HDZ means something criminal, something toxic, and you know what I'm going to tell you, Mr. Boric? I learned...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61149	and surely.../ [[Thank you very much.]] Speaker down. I'll repeat Mr. Mira Bulja's words [[Thank you very much. Let's finally stop...]] And with Sava Strbc [[Intruder: Speak.]] means better than [[I'm giving you a warning.]] with a criminal organization. [[Intruder: Basic Art. 240th century 1]] I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate. That's enough of that! So finally stick to the Rules of Procedure! So what do you think you can do with these outbursts in parliament? You can't! Appreciation of Rules of Procedure Is a Key Thing [[Intruder: Dear...]] I'm damn sure warning him! [[Intruder: Dear academic Rainer. My colleague, Boric, has spent 15 seconds in time and you have not fallen upon him in such a way!]] And now, don't... [[I won't let you, I won't let you!]] Intruder:...to be due to breaking time...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61152	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state. This is how politicians who simply do not recognise the power of arguments end up, but only the strength of lies, falseness, hypocrisy and such are presented to the public and say that they represent the people, the Croatian people are not what they think, and they show that time in the past. So today, when we have this topic of the referendum, it is clear that this topic has marked the entire path of the Republic of Croatia since the very beginning of independence to this day. The first referendum we held on independence, about the independence of the Republic of Croatia was also one of the most successful we had in history. Over 80% of the citizens left, 94% of those who said we wanted an independent, independent Republic. Then the bush and such a team of politicians meant nothing, these were then clear structures, clear politicians in which we could learn something today. Unfortunately, I say, it was all in the past. We have spent time learning democracy, and today we learn, and we will certainly learn in the future. So these stories today of a referendum on who is the anti-referendum coalition who is in favour, these are ordinary political flossules that the Most likes to work, label without absolutely standing up for anything. In fact, some of these and such referendum initiatives have become politicians and are sitting here with us today. The question is whether they were interested in initiatives or in their own personal moments that wanted to be made public, to come into the policy area, to high politics, and then to share to everyone what they think is necessary. In the past 30 years, we have had a lot of initiatives and a lot of questions to be heard about. We had a question about the interruption of co-operation with The Hague Court in 2007. That didn't happen. Was the Republic of Croatia supposed to be a NATO member? We've become a NATO member and I think we know what this means to us today. Shall we reject the arbitration agreement with Slovenia? We know how the arbitration agreement ended, but we also know the word. Would you like to amend the Labour Act? We've been through this one way that we've withdrawn the law. Changed it and today it exists in a completely different form. Are you willing to ban the sale of state property? There were questions like that. A ban on the production and sale of GMO products. Are you in favour of re-questioning membership in the European Union and this was one initiative there in early 2010, 11 or 12, if I recall correctly. Would you like us to cancel the conversion and privatisation? All of these were legitimate questions, as well as whether you were for Cyrillic i.e. for the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Minority as regards the official use of the Minority Language and Letters. We see how that ended. Would you like an austorsing? Would you like to monetize the highway? Would you like to hold a referendum on the referendum law? And we had that as an initiative. Today we're discussing it and it's kind of on the agenda. Would you like to cut the number of MPs? Would you like to cut down on the number of minority representatives? Are you up for the 4% election threshold? Are you willing to have three preferential votes? Are you in favour of minority representatives not being able to vote in favour of the budget and trust of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Are you to cancel the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family? This prophecy by his colleague Zekanovic did not come true. In the Croatian Parliament, we still don't have a toilet that says it. Let's think of those times. These are all legitimate questions that have been raised to Croatian citizens. They signed on these and such demands. We had a request 67 is too much. And we solved that through changes and additions to the law. Speaking of locals, we had five of them that I remember. Four of them somehow failed, one of them passed when we were talking about the City of Plates, I say. What was I going to say through this? That the questions were all sorts of, that they covered all the problems at certain times when they were being asked, that the people reacted, that those who led might not have succeeded in achieving what they wanted, but that the government was neither so far silent nor that it listened to what the citizens were saying as well as the local self-government leaders. And the fact that people or citizens have been sent through signatures, and it has not been achieved through the referendum in some way, has been resolved. What could not be solved was not solved regardless of the initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61153	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61154	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I believe Article 238 has been injured. A colleague demeans other MPs...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61155	I'm sorry, I thought it was a replica first. But first, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61156	That's what I'm doing, yeah. I believe Article 238. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, yes.]] A colleague's talking about some kind of toilet thing. I don't know if I ever said it, I don't think I did, but I'm sure I didn't. But if there's ever a toilet like that, we know who we're gonna find inside. Mr. Boric. That toilet will be intended for you and you from HSLS and similar to you. I didn't make a mistake with HSLS because you're actually a typical HSLS guy by the habitat of a Hrebak guy like that, and that's you. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61157	Thank you very much, dear colleague Zekanovic. And you know for yourself that the discussion about toilets is certainly not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Now you can replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61158	Now I can replicate, great. Bravo. So, dear colleague Boric, you listed here and perhaps all those initiatives and what should have been a referendum initiative. And what the Croatian public must know is that you have never in your life moved anything in any initiative of this type. Because you've always been a representative of the political establishment, the caste that's ruling, and here you just said that some have actually moved in the referendum initiatives. I'm one of those guys, I am, and I've spent a lot of them, and we've done it many times, and we're gonna make it this time. Neither will your boss, nor will you, but this time the Croatian people will collect signatures for the referendum initiative, and then you will be guys and you and your Andrej will try to bring it down in the Constitutional Court. I'm talking about protecting the Croatian Kuna of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61159	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61160	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will return to what I said and to your activity in an initiative and with what you have scarred the citizens and our parliamentary representatives here. When you talk about who it is then you must look at yourself and say first to yourself which party I belong to, because there are also you in the Oak Party and you are president of the Sovereignist and you have entered the HDZ in this Croatian Parliament. That's where you became a politician, and then you were with the Homeland Movement, so you spoke against Skora, so now you've taken it over to yourself, etc. That's it. I know where I belong. I know what I am. I know which stranger I belong to, and I've never done what you do in my life. If the people appreciate it, let them appreciate it at will. But those are not to be trusted, because whatever they did in life, they only did because I said that they appear to take advantage of what the people want might solve a question but that they only position themselves somewhere, and it is no longer important to them after that. It's better to be honest and honest, loyal to what you think and what you live, than to play big politicians who can be in every stranger just offer them what they want, and that's the chair, the pay phone, the TV, and then they're happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61161	Thank you. A colleague, Zekanovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61162	Yes, that respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Article 238. I have now heard the greatest laugh in the history of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Boric called himself honest and honest is a miracle. He calls himself honest and honest. Mr. Fighter, before you told me I wouldn't enter the Parliament again, so I came in again. I've achieved a great preferential result. And I'm asking you how much would you be worth without the HDZ stamp my father founded? Do you know how much? Zero. Zero and less than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61163	Comrade Zekanovic, I beg you, let us not abuse the institution's violation of the Rules of Procedure. It shall, of course, give a second warning on the basis of Article 240(1). But I'm asking you nicely, let's not do that. Let's not. He has an institution of replication. There's a final speech institution on behalf of the club. There are a number of ways to speak in this House freely. What you're doing is ugly, unnecessary and incorrectly accompanied by a colleague. We have a replica of Honorable Agent Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61164	Thank you. Dear counterpart Boris is the fact that this law needs to be completed and adapted. But the sad and humiliating thing today for this tall home is that the representatives of the Bridge who declare themselves to be great Christians, the believers share our crowns here with the righteous today by orchestrated attack on our colleague regardless of her attitudes, amendments, or what she wrote. This is not a way of working in a high school. I find it sad and sad that I have to listen to this and sit here and in this way I don't think we should argue. I know they won't listen, and I know they'll still share the crowns, but what they've been doing today is not Christian, human, and this is not how they treat their colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61165	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61166	Thank you very much, dear colleague Lenart. I agree fully with you and with the dictionary you used to describe these gentlemen, because indeed in every debate, even this one, which I think is quite good and normal, is using himself and his own goals to label people's laws as anti-referendum, and the debate of individuals is also under any level of the anti-referendum coalition that needs to be looked at or heard what we're saying here to find out about this Law or to have an opinion. They do it all the time. When they do that, they escape from the Assembly, they are gone because they have fulfilled their quota of insult for that day. This is what they are called for in their debates, and then afterwards they are called to regret that they are representatives of that Croatian people, and they are essentially incompetent populists who simply contribute nothing but themselves, which they have shown over the past four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61167	The Republic has a respected representative, Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61168	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke of initiatives and issues on which citizens wanted to hear the opinion. It was far more national than at the local level, but today it was hardly said to call a referendum at the local level could be proposed by the mayor or mayor of those who received more than 50% of the votes you received on your Lopar, as you received more than 50% of the votes in order to be head of the apropo of what counterpart Zekanovic says as much as it is worth, and we know how many others in their cities and municipalities have received votes. A referendum may be called on the proposal by those leaders, with the majority in the representative body. My colleague Bulj often spoke of some leaders who were born. There is no leader who will be born, and we plan to go for another term. Therefore, a referendum can also be called on the mayor's proposal, with the support of the majority in the representative body, which must also be given to the majority, which must also be supported by the budget of the same head.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61169	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61170	Thank you very much, dear colleague Yurichev. Yes, but we who know who Mr. Thunder knows and why they're saying it. This is what we're saying and what you said you were right. But they are speaking here from the opposition situation that someone who disagrees with the government will be able to come into a situation to achieve some kind of political project or a particular referendum will be called. They're doing it neatly, which is why I said that he is, say, a coin of Mr. Puljko because we see how it works in the City Council of Split when the Bridge holds most of you. They fell apart at the 1st session because they are not ready to make unpopular decisions. We can see that from Mayor Sinja's only one they have, but we can see they're not ready for it. It's just common populists. As for the local referendums, they were under current law. They may be by what we ask the Ministry to consider is how to separate perhaps large cities, and the other cities and municipalities leave by this status whether to cut the threshold because then it is possible to solve for... The initiative. [[You don't understand.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61171	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61172	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. The debate with the metrics, which is the Law on Referendum, has gone a little bit, it often happens, so we started counting not only the signatures and checking the voter lists, which is very important for the referendum initiatives, but we started counting how many votes there are. Well then someone who always walks along with some big parties without any branding and any hard work like my colleague Juričev Martinchev or my colleague, Boric, they dare some people like me or my colleague, Škora, who has won with no party infrastructure 106 thousand votes in Zagreb or 465 thousand for the president of the state. And then you'll find some argument to say it's not worth it, and it's worth your tow with one brand, I'll repeat my colleague, Boric, who my father created, and then you had nothing to do with that brand, and it's about the HDZ that today's HSLS with you at the head, with the lady. Martinchev and, of course, Andrej Plenović. - Mrs. Crescent. Martinchev, who will defend Vesna Pusic and mention in the media my parents by order of Andrej Plenkovic. I haven't forgotten that. I've forgiven you for that, but I haven't forgotten, colleague Martinchev, how you stood up for your political matchmate. Your political contemporaries. And descending to the level that then to his colleague, his parents, so do you know my parents, colleague Martinchev? ... You know my parents, my colleague Martinchev? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And as for the referendum initiatives, as for the referendum initiatives, so of course you have no idea what referendum initiatives are when you're the only signature you've given in your life was signature for HDZ. Maybe some for the Communist Party at some point and never again to anyone. It's the only signature you've given, and you've been collecting signatures perhaps only for the great leader and for nothing more, and you have no idea what it's like to volunteer, what it's like to volunteer, what it's like to give your time for an idea, for the people, for the state because you're not the one. But then you have the nerve to come for this pay phone and tell yourself, honest and honest. Well, my people, I'm gonna have to take that off my cell phone when I'm bored of smiling. The fighter calls himself honest and honest. It's a fantastic thing. And then, if you are honest and honest, encourage your minister, an esteemed colleague who is very much with you, I respect you very much, fellow Malenica, to check the final lists of voters. Have him check the final list of voters. There can be no more voters in Croatia than there are people. It's impossible. It's mathematically impossible. And I remember how you from the opposition then criticized Mr. Bauk when he was a referendum on marriage. Then there was an interesting HDZ and this referendum on marriage, I must admit, it took part and took place on the back of HDZ, a former HDZ, a different HDZ, not today's HDZ. And we won, we managed to collect the signatures. We've collected over 750 thousand signatures. And then Milanovic played us in a perfidious way. And here, if you were to review the voters' list, it will be today. And one more thing I call you, Secretary of State, and I've already said to the respected Minister Malenica, if it's possible, and this applies to the presidency of HS for Vice President Reiner and for me, hurry up with the procedure of adoption means this Law, let another reading go, here I propose, on Monday, it's not a problem for me, and let's do this referendum which we Croatian sovereigns with friends, we plan, we work, we volunteer again, let's do it under the new law, if it's better. Even though he's got a lot of holes, I think you're aware through today's debate. And if you accept any well-intentioned suggestions, respect that letter, or the Constitutional Court's decision, point 5.1, is extremely important, so they can be signed without units of local and regional self-government allowing to collect anywhere along with, of course, the permission of the police, or with prior notice to the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61173	Thank you. A colleague, Boric, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61174	Thank you very much. Art. 238, Mr. Zekanovic once again demeans me as a person, but also my colleague, because he thinks he's some sort of full of truth and that what he's saying is that. He doesn't know anything about me, so he could talk like this.../incomprehensible... who I am and what I am. So we who have the opportunity to look into the media space of what's going on and to meet these people, we know who they are, what they were doing, where they belonged, and where I say today, they belong. At the same time, they can be members of one party and the presidents of the other. And that's fine, so be it. But then there comes what I said, and that's what it is, exactly what Mr. Zekanovic is. And with that he terrified all the citizens when he... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61175	Thank you very much. Uh, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you a warning. Comrade Zekanovic, you have raised, which is very unusual for a pay phone, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61176	Dear counterpart Bukarica will agree that this is businessly possible. So art. 238 No, I've done it a few times already. [[Intruder: It's possible, I said it's just unusual, nobody's ever done it before, but obviously.]] I've done it a few times, but obviously I haven't. [[Intruder: Obviously you're doing some things the first time.]] So 238, of course. [[Well, go ahead.]] Dear fellow Boric, you, we have freedom of speech, this is democracy and you have the right to say whatever you want and I have the right to say whatever I want and you know for yourself that you often cross the border, very often, yes, yes, you cross the border very often and you are in your controversy here, and I will even dare to say and sometimes it is rude, and then it's little, in someone else's eye you're looking for that little speck, and in yours you don't see You don't see a log in yours. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61177	Thank you very much. Uh, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and since you're third in line, I, in particular, have warned you, I must be the foundation of your article. 240th century 2 give a reminder by subtracting a word until the end of the debate on this topic You don't, unfortunately you don't. [[Then there's not even a replica anymore?]] And you won't be able to answer. [[/Intruder: And who is he going to replicate when I'm gone?]] There'll be a replica, there'll be no answer. You can't, you can't. .../ [[/Intruder: What can't I replicate now?]] You're a mouse, and this is you, Buccara, my nasista... /... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This one. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, [[Well, I'll give it to you. He's got to whisper to him, huh? And he wouldn't get that sitia.]] Here's your esteemed representative, Juričev-Martinchev. [[No, I didn't say that, no, no, no.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61178	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleague Zekanovic, I appreciate all the votes you have received and the number that stands with your name of the preferential votes. You came down on me because I said you couldn't tell my colleague Boric that he was worth zero when he got over 50% of the votes in Lopar himself, which means you insulted all the people of Lopar himself, and I'm not going to talk about the sympathy he has within our party, our members and our sympathisers. When it comes to my colleague Pusic for our public, to remind you, you told your colleague "shut". I will say again that this is wrong and that this is not the way to treat a colleague of you who are a professor, you who are a teacher's child have both parents professors, who are the father of the three I will again say it regardless of which colleague you said "shut".
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61179	Thank you very much. What's wrong with you? .... /Intruder Zekanovic: Well colleagues, I've never had you on a personal level, and I have materials... [[/Intruding Zekanovic: But you take your colleagues as the right to give me a clue. So what's the matter with you?]] What's wrong with you? [[You don't understand.]] I didn't give you my word. I am the basis of Article 241 of you. ..... /Invader Zekanovic: I have material for you know how much? Tons of material and I always... because of what... [[You don't understand.]] Elevating. [[You don't understand.]] We know each other. We're down here and you're gonna to me so... Shame on you. [[You don't understand.]] Shame on you. And I'm going to tell you a little taste for everyone who has, who cultivates and cultivates the Yugoslav idea for everyone, here's everyone. An individual debate will be respected MP Antolic. ... I'm sorry, I didn't see. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear representative Peric has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61180	This is proof of how sincere and honest Zekanovic's colleague was on the HDZ list in IX. the electoral unit and who then changed colors and showed the right face, and this is how he calls his colleague Juričev Martinchev and fellow Boric who made for their local units and environments more than he will ever in his life and the rest of us who worked in the interest of the units of local self-government and such a person to give us lessons I think it is really below the level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61181	The next debate will be... Honored MPs Antoliæ Vupra. [[speaker not enabled, not understood]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61182	Your Honor, Mr. Proposer, the chairman. So, the referendum law is long awaited, to some extent welcome and we can say that Croatian citizens have decided only three issues of independence, entry into the European Union and the definition of marriage so far. It should also be noted that in 2010 the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia indicated that the existing Law on Referendum is a law to be amended because it is unarranged. The public says the whole procedure is liberalised because the deadline for the signing is extended from 15 to 30 days. Local self-government units are obliged to provide places to collect signatures to referendum initiatives, depending on the number of residents in the local self-government unit. It also undertakes that within 30 days after the DIP has determined that a sufficient number of signatures has been collected and a referendum is called. There is the problem of who is in power in a particular municipality or city, and if a local sheriff depends on how and under what conditions these signatures will be supported and collected the same, or they will be difficult. So it's the same problem that this law certainly won't be able to solve. So liberalisation needs to be welcomed. However, there is a need to strengthen control in some segments, which is not enough at this time to regulate only legally, but also constitutionally, especially when it comes to the topics on which a referendum can be called, because so far this has not been defined. The SDP proposed this in 2014 so that human rights, the tax system, appointments and other matters which are within Parliament's jurisdiction could not be called a referendum, but should remain in Parliament's jurisdiction. If the liberalisation of the procedure is already being advocated, in particular with regard to the collection of signatures, and how in this higher house we hear multiplely from both the prime ministers and the ministers on digitalisation, we now have only a census. So the reply in the replica of the minister was to be further controlled and coded. So it was extra control. With regard to digitization and the collection of signatures for a referendum that could go in the form of a system of e-citizens and the answer to the actual replica was that this maltene system wasn't safe enough and that based on the experience we had from other countries first of all, we can doubt that someone with their influence could crash that system. But what about the local referendums? Is there really some big player who will question the security of the system at local level when it comes to local initiatives, and that in this way, there really is a real HDZ that allows this digitisation to get through this medium to local levels. So do it. I think the local referendum is an excellent area of introducing this country's digital transformation in an excellent way. Here is my proposal and the appeal to include IT industry in all this, to increase the security of vote and not just vote and other systems. That's what we should be working on in the future. That's the interest of all of us, and that's what the government program says.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61183	We have one replica. Please stay here. Honorable MPs, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61184	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, then, in your presentation, you spoke about the system of e-citizens. So, the fact that you can't refer to the referendum and that the referendum can't go through the e-Citizen system and when you say it, the minister is scandalous. For the simple reason we now have a census. See around a million and a half inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia were listed through the E-Citizen system. We had a recent election, we'll have them again. We made it through the E-Citizens' system and you don't have to go any more to get the copy that you need to be a candidate at all in any election. And now you have the possibility that once there's a referendum on that system that's secure on the list, it's safe when you need to take something out, it's safe in some of the data you get, in the referendum it's not safe. So, at the very least, I find that statement scandalous. Please comment again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61185	Honorable representative Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61186	Thank you very much. So several times we heard the initiative about it and the appeal. Give at least the lowest levels of management, so right in the local referendums. This would actually solve the problem of direct democracy at the highest level. So even from collecting signatures to everything else, it's not as important as how many citizens later participate in the referendum itself. So try to implement the government program at least in the first phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61187	The next debate will be the respected representative of Miroslav Skora. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will repeat once again something that has been said many times not only in this convocation for this speaker, but the repetition is the mother of learning, so here in the Croatian Constitution it is said that the government comes from the people and belongs to the people and that this people directly decides independently and in accordance with the Constitution. We are guaranteed freedom, equality, and Article 10 of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to quote: "Protect the rights and interests of its citizens who live or live abroad and promote their ties with their homeland." How is this bill referred to Croatian emigration? Article 36(1) states: “The collection of voter signatures is carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia.” We therefore excluded the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with residence outside the Republic of Croatia from the process if they do not, of course, come and sign there, which is, therefore, without a legal basis in the Constitution and puts the inequality right to influence political life in Croatia. I'll remind you, too. Due to its entry into the European Union in 2010, the Constitution has been amended to ensure the outcome of the referendum of the HDZ and SDP duopod. This was followed by us who were not at that time in politics on television, so for the success of the referendum, it no longer took the semi-partner's will of most eligible voters, but the will of most voters who approach the referendum and then we come to those ridiculous numbers coming out three, two being for and the referendum has passed. The end of the negotiations with the EU was therefore more important at that time than the long-term interests of the Croatian people. Which has brought us into the European Union and how much better we live, we see it ourselves. We beat the Bulgarians convincingly, and in everything else we're the last or the last. However, as an air counterproduct for Croatian emigration and diaspora, it was possible to vote exclusively in diplomatic and consular representations, which means with 40 and how many 3.4 seats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they settled in Banja Luka, Tuzla. Who else? Sarajevo. Let's say 4, 5 places and Mostar where these people in Bosnia and Herzegovina who belong to the Croatian Corps can vote, and most of them Croatian citizens and heritage are these rights that I spoke about at the beginning. And instead of the 5, and there were 12 of them at the time, then there were 6, were there only three representatives in the Croatian Parliament today? Does Croatia need diaspora? Does Croatia need eviction? If it's to judge 14 even more billions of kunas a year that come in as signs from abroad, then we need it. If it is to judge by the national football team of Croatia which was the finalist of the football championship, and the team consisted of 2/3 of players born outside the Republic of Croatia, then we need it. If you judge her by tennis, then we need her. If it is to judge on the floor of the board we are passing by, which is that Croatian emigration financed the restoration of this assembly where we are sitting, then we also need Croatian emigration. However, if it is to judge by this bill, the Honorable Secretary of State seems to be very unnecessarily unnecessarily needed. We also have the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the country and this is written about equality and about one and indivisible Croatian people, right. Now, if the minister says it can't be implemented and again, I will be wooding the electronic signature for quoting it: "Availability, security, possibility of fraud". For God's sake, how is it possible to mention the availability, security and possibility of fraud in this case? How come you don't mention it now, and what did your colleague Dark Tarritash talk about when she's a census? And it's not true that it's a control. When you sign up, you get the code. Put it on the door and no one can touch you. It's a fiction. You can transfer millions of kunas in transactions. So will this government, if it is in power and these people, when blockchain technology comes, also claim it's impossible? And we all know it's possible. So, I think that part would guarantee what is important, which is integration, even more integration of the Croatian Corps. Because if political rights are guaranteed through the list, I don't see any reason why this can't be guaranteed to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61189	We have one replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61190	Dear Representative, what is the situation of whether you may have been comparatively investigating in other European countries how they treat emigration, according to their diaspora so-called. in Italy and European countries many? Are there certain progress in terms of electronic and voting and valorisation in these modern times and in relation to the Venetian documents there? Well, maybe you could explain that to us a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61191	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61192	Thank you very much, Mr. Sacic. So, I'm not much of an expert on this, but getting ready for this speech, I came across a work by Professor Kasapovic who certainly isn't inclined and I'm sorry I didn't bring it with me, in some things. However, there are guidelines for parallel solutions and very many countries consume exactly what you are talking about in a certain percentage compared to the number of parliamentary representatives of particular countries that have such a strong and large diaspora and emigrantism as the Croatian state has. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where we often get an example from Estonia, which has the ability to vote electronically when the elections are at stake and then we are given some other situations in which it is not generally possible or applied, and it has given up. But that technology progresses literally from day to day. And I'm sure it will change even as we discuss the final bill, so it would be good to... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61193	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Damir Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61194	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will refer briefly to this proposal for a referendum law, and at first I would like to actually praise the Ministry for having actually decided to draw up a proposal for a new referendum that is detailed, which is precise, comprehensive and edits in fact and regulation, and I think we can all say complex matter that refers precisely to referendum rights. Namely, the existing Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority, local and regional self-government, dating back to 1996 and has been amended several times and complemented. The Constitutional Court also warned of the fact that the existing law was unsettled or underdeveloped, and even in certain parts and inconsistencies, which required its amendment or completion. One of the fundamental constitutional values is the principle of rule of law which, among other things, stipulates that the rules of general, predictable, precise, particularly with regard to their addresses, or persons subject to certain rules. In view of the above, the proposal for a referendum law is contained in the view of three times the scope of the existing Law, which is far more precise than it, which determines legal situations which are not prescribed or regulated by the current law, the law which governs or assumes institutes which are also recommended by the Venice Commission. In fact, in my individual debate, I wanted to touch the part relating to the legal protection procedure in part of the referendum procedure. However, I can say invited by certain debates, first of all here I think of colleagues from the Bridge Club, I will look back at something else, and I mean what he said and if I'm not wrong about my predecessor, my colleague Škoro, that repeating is the mother of wisdom, then I think there's some things I need to do again. So bridge colleagues have been here again since morning, unfortunately they are no longer here because they obviously think they have achieved their goal, I will try to explain that they are wrong, talking about that the HDZ Representatives' Club together with some other MPs here actually wants to limit the possibility of going to a referendum or asking certain referendum questions. So that's absolutely incorrect. So it has already been said here but I think it is worth repeating already now, according to the existing positive regulations, the Constitutional Court has the possibility to ask whether there is a referendum, a potential referendum issue in accordance with the Constitution or not. What was proposed here yesterday was actually discussed very closely on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system whether to do so before the signing or after the signing. What I think we can all agree, obviously, is that it is much better to discuss this issue before all that energy is used so that people are hired, time, gathering 300, 400, 500 thousand signatures to then the Constitutional Court says that the issue proposed is not in line with the Constitution. I would say that it is a dangerous thesis represented here by the Club of Representatives of the Most and what I also want to say does not actually fit them, because they actually use this low pulsism and demagogue actually to enlist their voters, and not to actually fight for what they point out here, therefore some values they represent, some nationality that absolutely has nothing to do with it. I repeat again, this is absolutely not the case. It is far more dangerous and I hope that they are aware that by the existing positive regulations, therefore, as it is currently arranged, there is still this possibility that the Constitutional Court will question at this time the constitutionality of a particular referendum issue. So basically nothing changes except asking whether to do it sooner or whether to do it later. What is important here is that most discussions here were actually about amending the Constitution and the need to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, which is not even the subject of this Law. The subject matter of this Law is therefore the area of referendums and referendum rights and all those acts that come into this House must be in line, of course, with the constitutional law on the Constitutional Court. In addition, they require unique methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts. And it would be good for some parliamentary deputies to be before they actually get involved in the debate and get to know each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61195	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61196	Dear Representative Habib, give us an explanation of how much you can in short lines on what, what led you, who has fought to put on a legal initiative that is organised in the form of an organisational committee that energizes enormous energy to animate people to go out, to conjecture the issue against it to put a counter-initiative that has no obligation, and to participate in counter-propagand and to count votes. Institutionalise an opposition that has regular access to media, and you place it at the level of the Organisational Committee's couples who must strictly comply with the prescribed conditions. That's illogical, inadmissible. Try to explain why it's like that, why did you suggest it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61197	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61198	Thank you very much. My personal opinion is that it is a democratic achievement. So, I believe that if the advocates of a particular referendum initiative through the whole process provided for by this draft law within 40 days have the right to present their ideas, they have the right of, of course, to use the media space, then I also believe that a group of advocates, i.e. those who are opponents of this initiative, also have equal and equal terms to state their reasons why they oppose it. I think it's a democratic achievement, and that's one level that this bill is sure to achieve, and I think it's totally acceptable and I absolutely agree with that and I can't agree with you that someone will get a space that doesn't deserve it. Because just as those who are against have the right to state their opinion and have the right to hear the opinion of the Croatian public and finally on the day of the referendum to decide who they are and whose arguments were more convincing whether those who advocate such a referendum issue or those who are against them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61199	Your Honor, Mr. Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61200	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Habib I am pleased to share our love for the same sensations, so as the repeat mother learning interests me only in your attitude when it comes to what I was talking about, so these are Croatian emigrants we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who are equal Croatian citizens like you and I. For this reason, it would not be possible for these people to ultimately and for all Croatian citizens to at least contribute by electronic means to the launch of referendum initiatives, i.e. to be able to subscribe to such an initiative and in some way show their desire to consume the constitutional right of government to come out of them and in some way that it should be created precisely by their initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61201	Honorable representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61202	Thank you very much. So, first of all, to clarify the fact that it wouldn't stay in the air, so everyone has the right to decide on a referendum, so that means that our people living in the diaspora too. As for the possibility of them co-signing, you mentioned an electronic vote, i.e. electronic signature. I must admit that I agree with what he said in his opening statement, and I agree with the minister himself. So, a question and security, a question and technical possibilities, a question and possibilities if you really want to cheat. So, anyway, this is just the first reading of this law, so I think that every proposal is welcome on your part and will be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61203	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61204	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. What is no matter what political positions we are dealing with seems beyond any doubt to me, and that is that so far the order of the referendum in our legislation is bad. This is what I think we all agree because, for years now, the clear need to change the law that regulates it has been fully demonstrated, and obviously, as today's debate goes, we will also need changes to the Constitution to address this issue in a good way. In the last decade in Croatia, the most dust and public attention in the referendum was raised by initiatives around the so-called People's referendums, therefore initiatives launched by citizens or stakeholders themselves. And I'll say very openly no one in those processes was satisfied. Neither were those who organised or tried to organise the referendums, but neither were many other citizens satisfied when they saw the issues and how they tried to edit these proposals. To be clear and open absolutely to the end. Many of the initiatives to call a referendum in the last decade were not a festival but rather a twilight of democracy and a people's decision. Many of these initiatives have made the intention clear or hidden that someone’s rights are being reduced, that someone is being excluded, or that someone is being banned. That's not how I see the idea of a national referendum. He should be just the opposite. The citizens' initiative to spread freedom, to tear down borders, fence the exclusion of anyone. A referendum on marriage, an attempt to change the threshold for using the language of national minorities, the abolition of minority representatives in the Croatian Parliament and even a referendum on outsoursing if we forgot. They were all initiatives to ban something, to exclude someone. It just shows that without democratic and civil culture, there is neither direct democracy nor referendum. Switzerland is often mentioned. Speaking of Switzerland, we only have one small problem. We're not Switzerland. This law, however, in a certain way introduces order in the whole process, and that is already in itself good. We must be aware that the moment when citizens through the referendum become constitutionalists or legislators is an important moment for the state. And he's just because he's important has to be well-organized. If there is a very good procedure for calling a referendum when it is called by the Parliament, the Government or the President of the Republic, then such a strict procedure must also apply when the referendum is sought and organised by citizens. The intervention of citizens in the constitutional and legal system of the state must be regulated and restricted by clear rules. Citizens who organise and decide at a referendum of the People's Initiative are the kind of bodies of state authorities and must act accordingly. For me are among the main and important papers of this law when we talk about a referendum and you see that we are talking about that whole debate in that part of the referendum, so on. National initiatives to introduce and regulate the committee of advocates, i.e. opponents of the referendum initiative. Advocacy must be clear, hidden and important to those who advocate, but also to those who are opponents provide at least the same space for advocacy, including the representation of views in the media. The same space should get one and the other. Another important thing I read in this law is to strengthen the role of the DIP in the whole process as the regulatory body that has the most experience in implementing election processes together with the provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities, electoral promotion and referendum is an important step in establishing order and transparency of the organisation process and implementing the referendum. With the ability to vote through the E-Citizen system, I think we said so. I am deeply hoping that the minister will listen and see how the Minister of Agriculture did it, so she listened to the remarks, so yesterday we received a law that states that the objections of different associations, initiatives, parliamentary representatives have been respected, and I hope that some of our remarks in these discussions will be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61205	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61206	Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, I need to react to a few of the things that you've brought out, which I don't think are intrinsically standing. Speaking of the referendum initiatives we've had so far, you've been saying that it's about shutting someone down, that someone's being banned. In particular, the referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage was that the definition of marriage that has always been in the laws to rise to the level of the Constitution was precisely to exclude any ideological imposition from some simple majority, that an ancient institution was drastically redefined in such a way. So nothing was invented, no citizen was denied anything, it was just that this institution that was so defined in the law was raised to the level of the Constitution. Neither did anyone want to abolish national minorities' representatives, but today you have a majority that is made up of a minority of voters. So something that is a good ossus on special lists is chosen by people to articulate the issues of their national minorities, eventually form the ruling majority, which has never occurred before. That is what it is, and anyway, most members of the national minorities vote for the civil lists as well as members of the majority. That's what's important to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61207	Thank you very much. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61208	Thank you very much, colleague Rasdic. I'd be surprised if you didn't react, it was for you to expect you to react, and that's why it's important to me it seems in this law that when they go so-called. People's referendums that there are those who are advocates and who say why it is like those who oppose it. I am absolutely sure that the law which, or referendum which was about marriage and which we should have further defined has denied the rights in part, therefore, and democratic law and some human rights to individual groups of this society. And that's clear and that's the way it is. We also had a referendum that some failed, but it's a right for everyone to think differently. And it's good to think differently, and it's good to be different from what we think differently. And that's why debates like this have come extremely well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61209	Dear Representative Škoro has the following. And I'm sorry! Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Honorable Representative of the Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61210	Article 238 in the light of the demeaning of MPs. I'm very well aware of what I said. It's one thing we think, and the other thing is what's in the law. So the institution of marriage can consume every person in the Republic of Croatia but it has been defined in law and is now in the Constitution as a community of men and women. There are obviously some social and historical and demographic reasons why society particularly cares about the community of formalised men and women more than some other communities. Most of them clearly showed how they felt about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61211	My colleague Rasudić, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Please don't abuse that institution. Dear Representative Škoro has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61212	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives of the Dark-Taritash, to try to help perhaps those who listen to us and follow us in this long debate. Article 37, lastly, it seems to me that Articles 35 and 36 say that the Croatian Parliament can launch a direct or indirect creation of a counter-proposal of a referendum initiative. Right? And that's what you're talking about, if I get it right. Now, if we go back to the Constitution and power comes from the people and belongs to the people, the people choose the representatives by direct decision here in the Croatian Parliament and we should be the expression of the people's will. How is it possible that if we are the expression of the people's will, and not what the people at the national referendum want us to be at odds and against what the people are coming out with as with the initiative? It's a little sylogism to me, one Corinthians says all Corinthians lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61213	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61214	So, dear colleague Škoro, we obviously also have this law, or the proposal for a referendum law, we read a little differently, and we interpret it a little differently. So this part of the third part that was related to the Croatian Parliament and what was in this bill I did not refer to. I referred to the part where someone came out with a proposal called the so-called. The national referendum that has so far been unregulated and it is good to regulate it and it is good for anyone who decides to know the rules of the game in advance. It was not good, no matter what I did about this referendum and that initiative, I thought when we had one initiative for a referendum and then the ministry of reference read the signatures that were and something from those signatures for days or months. So the rules of the game must be clear. We can represent different interests and we have to represent different interests, but we can't play basketball. And at the end of that, someone said we were playing football. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61215	Thank you. Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr. Taritash, you said that so far's reference initiatives are actually the twilight of democracy in this regard. Do you think that we should actually promote democratic culture from primary school, even through both secondary and secondary schools, and also in this Croatian Assembly, and finally bring this ethical code of conduct to the Croatian Parliament, which we see as necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61217	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61218	Thank you very much, colleague Nadj, I will now respond to another topic, and this is a topic that would surely in this assembly cause debate and dispute, which is the importance of civic education and the importance of raising from the earliest age. I'm not gonna say much from kindergarten, but almost from kindergarten and through elementary and high school. All of us who advocate liberal democracy advocate learning and some other things, responsibilities, responsibilities to vote, responsibilities to some, financial responsibility, and I read them all in civic education. Someone who experiences that civil education differently will read some other things, but this is important too. And this is important that everyone has the right to their position, to have the right to be different, that no one can at some point ask a referendum question that will, in fact, affect the rights of some others. So it's always the majority that decides about the right minority, but everyone needs to be listened to. And it's important. that education from the earliest age of life. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61219	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61220	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Rukavina, honourable MPs and legislators of this bill, the area of the referendum is fully in line with the Croatian Constitution of 2010 and its fourth, fourth change. This will greatly improve the legislative instrument of the referendum and will also eliminate the current shortcomings and shortcomings, irregularities, etc. What I consider to be good, necessary and useful is certainly that the draft law implements the recommendations of the Venice Commission or the Code of Good Practice in referendums. The most recent changes and additions were in the 10th month 2018. What's this really about? It is a document setting out guidelines and guidelines for the organisation of the referendum and a declaration of good practice in referendums was adopted on the Council of Ministers in 2008 in order to invite Member States' public authorities to follow these guidelines. When you read both documents, this proposal for a referendum law as well as the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and when you compare them, then you can really see that the bill follows the recommendations of the Venice Commission. And I think that's good and necessary because, for example, This encourages political dialogue between the Organisational Committee and the Croatian Assembly through the institutions of the indirect and direct counter-proposal of the Croatian Parliament, etc. As far as the indirect counterproposal itself is concerned, we had it in practice recently when the Ministry of Labour, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, fully respected the demands of the "67 is too much" initiative and almost 700,000 voters and implemented it in the amendments and additions to the final proposal of the Pension Insurance Act. In fact, this is the principle of an indirect counterproposal, which was also spoken by fellow Boric, who is now being formed as an instrument as well as an instrument of direct counterproposal. What is certainly good is that this law significantly improves the existing legal framework and very clearly prescribes the rules of the game. You know exactly who's what and when he's doing, who's responsible for what, what are the deadlines, etc. And there's no room for uncertainty, there's no holes or there's no legal gaps. In the morning I mentioned recent folk initiatives by not naming anyone, absolutely no one when data and signatures and minors and even babies and foreign citizens were found on the signed lists, and when these signatures were collected even by hoods of cars on the streets. This is what some colleagues from both the DP and the MOST felt for, and why they recognized why they saw themselves in it, indeed, remains one great unknown. As for the often mentioned e-voting here, I will also return to the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which suggests or suggests the following, that voters should always be able to vote at the polling station, and as regards the e-voting of the Venice recommendation, they say they can only be an option if they are available to all. In the case of one grandmother from the chabar or gyro, is it really accessible to everyone, equally available, so that's the end where the signal is little and so on, so I'm just talking about what the Venice Commission says about it. Voters should always be able to vote in the polling post, and as far as e-voting is concerned, it must be available to all. I would mention here and the role of the DIP, I think it is very good that he gets an active role as co-ordinator of the process that keeps track of the referendum activities, which examines the formal legal compliance of the referendum issue, of course, with the indication that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is deciding on constitutionality and also the DIP becomes competent to determine the number of eligible voters' signatures. In any case, I am pleased that this bill sets out the rules of the game in detail and that it will certainly contribute to greater control, greater transparency of the procedures for the implementation of the referendum, which I deem absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61221	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected member of the Shore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61222	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Buric, you have often mentioned the Venice Commission, there is a Venice Commission to say anything about everything, there is also an electoral law, there is also a minority MPs, so it would not be necessary to take it selectively, now that the Venice Commission is fit, then we will call on it, and then when we don't like it, then we won't. However, when you said availability, so what is the difference between the census and I do not know how to sign a referendum initiative when it comes to availability. In both cases, you have people who make the same thing available to the fact that you have censuses. Those who are listed electronically or electronically do not have to participate in this, so it could also be here. No, it can't be a selective approach, it's very unprincipled, on the one hand it can, on the other hand it can't or can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61223	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61224	Thank you. Dear colleague Škoro, here it is, with all due respect to you, however, that you have carefully read the recommendations of the Venice Commission I believe that you would know what I'm talking about, I suggest you read it too, although Croatian translation is not available, but in English, you will believe very well understood. I will, again, remind you that it is therefore the 2008 declaration. which has been adopted on the Code of Good Practice on Referendums and that this is, in fact, a suggestion, that this is guidance to Member States regarding the implementation of the referendum, as well as the promotion of political dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61225	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61226	Dear Representative Buric, here you have given me on the line of your interpretation of the Venice Commission how I can obstruct the introduction of e-voting in Croatia for centuries. According to your logic, if I go now as a monk, the hermit on the top of Velebit lives permanently where there is no internet connection, in Croatia there is no e-voting or e-signing because there is this single monk, I at the top of Velebit that has no connection, so no one can. That's not what this is all about, so your logic is completely unbulful. And the second thing, since you're so sovereignly writing off the referendum initiatives of stories about signed babies, about the dead, etc., please give us the amount of data compared to 380,000 or 400,000 signed signatures, how many babies, how many non-existent people are because in this way it sounds casual and unfounded, so what is the number of such signatures?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61227	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61228	Dear Mr. Detachment, I must first of all say that I disagree with you when you actually insult and mock in a very ugly way to people who live in border areas of the Republic of Croatia wherever that is. I don't think that's right because the people who live there are facing very specific living conditions. And if you were correct with them, I don't think you'd ever say that, and I don't think you do, after all. As for collecting signatures related to recent folk initiatives I didn't name, I don't know why you felt called, I really don't know, but it's indicative, it's very indicative. And as for the signed lists that were both minors and babies and dead. I think you would in that sense [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I'm actually convinced that you have very good information about this. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] I made the facts. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61229	Thank you very much, please hold on to the time. Dear Representative Rasdic has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61230	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 238, insult, demeaning and insinuating that I insult people from less populated areas. There is no one living on the top of Velebit, so I have cited the hypothetical situation where I become a nun and as a hermit I go to live on the top of Velebit where it doesn't matter, and because of this, my position cannot introduce an e-voting in Croatia. So please don't manipulate. On the other hand, I congratulate you, indeed, as Sherlock Holmes, you have seen that it is indicative and that I am talking about these referendums. Yes, I wrote the most read column in Croatia and publicly performed and supported that people consume their sovereignty I do so in a different way today. [[Intruder: Thank you very much colleague Rasdic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61231	This one, along with all your speech skills, you know that you have actually abused the institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure, so I give you a second warning and I draw you attention to that as a second warning. Dear Representative Škoro also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61232	Thank you very much. Because of those who follow us, 238, and maybe a few other articles of the Rules of Procedure. So, no change in the territorial appearance of the Republic of Croatia, Velebit is still not a border area as far as I know, only if there have been some significant changes since this morning, so that this analogy is the entire Croatian border area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61233	Thank you very much. But even geographical corrections aren't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so please don't do that, and I have to give you a warning. The Honorable representative, Dark Taritash, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61234	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. I would also refer to the subject of electronic signature collection, so let's see the reality in which we live. If we are to say so, the very treasure with the crown has put us in a position to have some hybrid sessions of the congregations of certain counties, we have also hybrid ones who can come here who are somewhere else. For the census, we have decided and urged citizens to be made to the fullest extent possible through the system of e-Citizens. The interest of this country should be that the system of e-Citizens works, should not be the interest of this country that the system of e-Citizens does not work. Therefore, in this context, I am sure that the possibility of electronic signing should be of interest to have really referendum initiatives, to be regulated and to show the will of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61235	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61236	Thank you, dear colleague Dark Taritash. I think I have already said a lot about the recommendations of the Venice Commission, especially about the e-voting, so the commission itself does not speak or-or is not exclusive but says and must be given the right to vote, these are recommendations with the option if e-voting is available to all. And in my speech, my colleague Škoro, I listed the chabar and German region, which is the border area in the Gorski Kotar and I mentioned Velebit, I did not already mention my colleague Raspoudic, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61237	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61238	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As stated in the proposal for a referendum law, the referendum is a fundamental instrument of direct or direct democracy, as voters directly decide on political issues of public interest. It is important for the spread of the democratic foundations of political decision-making at the state and local level, but also for achieving democratic political dialogue in society. So I welcome this proposal for a referendum law that wants to be regulated in a comprehensive way by this matter. Since this first reading of the law has plenty of time and seems to be the political will we saw on the home Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to improve this text of the bill until the second reading. It is also important to remind of the provision of the Article. 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that freedom, equality, national equality and gender equality, peace, social justice, respect for human rights, non-implementation of ownership, preservation of nature and human environment, rule of law and democratic multilateral system are the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpreting the Constitution and therefore would be a referendum issue which would reduce the level of the above-mentioned constitutional order's highest values. It is therefore necessary to prescribe safeguard mechanisms in the proposal for a referendum law in order to prevent the possibility of a majority self-willing over a minority, especially in the part of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms under Chapter Three of the Constitution, but also to amend constitutional changes in order to regulate it. It would be particularly unacceptable to reduce minority rights through referendums, because society is as strong as its weakest member. It is therefore necessary to prevent any possible devasting of the provisions of Article from taking place through the referendum. 14. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia according to which everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independent of his race, skin colour, sex, language, religion, political and other beliefs, national and social origin, property, birth, education, social status or other characteristics, and all are equal before the law. In the case of a Member The Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court has been prescribed that, at the request of HS, the Constitutional Court will, in the event that 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia request a referendum, determine whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution and whether the assumptions of the Article are met. In the 86th century, pages 1 to 3. The Republic of Croatia's constitution for its calling. It is therefore the authority of the HS to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as referred to in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 35, 36. The proposal for a referendum law can only be regulated by the Constitutional Law on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and the amendment of the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court should also be considered. According to Art. 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on issues referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this Article will issue a referendum in accordance with the law if it requires 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. Art. 13. The proposal for a referendum law is prescribed in accordance with the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia may request the HS to call a referendum on issues referred to in Article. The 11th and 12th laws. It is therefore clear that that provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in some way restricts the legislator in prescribing a potentially smaller number of voters than 10%, which was also highlighted during the consultation with the public interest, on committees, but also during this debate, it is not possible to reduce this 10% voter threshold again without change. Unlike the State referendum, the regulation of the local referendum of the Constitution leaves in full the law and statutes of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government, and until the second reading of the provisions on local referendum should be liberalised as regards the provision that a proposal for a referendum is required for 20% of the total number of voters in the unit. As for the collection of signatures via e-Citizens, I believe that there are conditions in the Ministry of Justice and that there are no obstacles to the implementation of this, especially as we already have an e-Bird, we have the possibility to draw documents from the queen. Therefore, there are no technical obstacles and no security obstacles to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61239	We have, please stay, we have two replicas. She is the rightful representative of Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61240	Dear MPs, you mentioned the liberalisation of the local referendum. And they said these limits were too high. Do you have any suggestions that the figures should be in the law for a local referendum?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61241	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61242	Thank you very much. Anyway, this 20% limit is too high. At the very least, it should be reduced to 10% as well as the one at the state level, but it can also be considered a smaller censorship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61243	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61244	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, here I see that you yourself support the electronic collection of signatures, and I agree with you that there are no obstacles on the technical side. We have seen, for example, a list of voters that our citizens accept well, react well to technological news that makes it easier for them to fulfil their civic obligations, and also to consume their rights. The only thing I think is that maybe this electronic signature collection system is better organised through a system with which it will manage itself and the DIP as the competent authority for the conduct of the election. So I would rather put it in their hands than leave it to the Ministry of Justice and Administration, so to the executive authority, and thus to one political body always tends to one political option. I think it's better to entrust this task to an independent regulatory body, there are no obstacles. I think in the process of digitising the DIP of all our institutions somehow went the farthest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61245	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61246	Thank you very much for, on the replica, I think we should leave this at the Ministry of Administration for the continuity of the management of the e-Citizens system, but in any case at any further stage, perhaps organisationally redistribute both these employees and perhaps the technical DIP funds. I don't know how effective this would be at this stage, given the continuity run by the Ministry of Justice and the administration of the e-Citizen system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61247	The next debate will be the respected representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61248	Thank you. During the debate, I also heard a thesis that in which HDZ, the Workers' Front, we can, and I think they mentioned us in alleged signs, accuse us of wanting to limit the referendum. I believe that the referendum should be limited because these limits should be set in a reasonable manner. And there are three criteria for the boundaries of the referendum. The first is the legitimacy of the applicant, so how many signatures should be collected in order to make the idea legitimate that it is even considered to call the referendum and that is now set to 10% in the Constitution. And as you can see in many times, many times that number has gathered under this law. So, I don't think that line is too high. It may be something lower, but then other boundaries should be adapted. The second line is on which topics can be called a referendum. Technically, our Constitution did not foresee any limits there because this could be called a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution, if any change to the Constitution was ultimately unconstitutional under the current Constitution because it requires a change and that would not be a constitutional issue under the current Constitution. Therefore, it is a very slippery terrain that I would not enter, and the Constitutional Court has had various carnages and dribbles there to show some initiatives as if they were not to be called a referendum or as if, as counterpart Bacic said in a statement on behalf of the club, they were already consummated by different decisions of the assembly or government. And thirdly, the third limit is how many votes must be made to make the decision. And only the combination of those three, those three criteria can be fully addressed to the matter of the referendum. It is totally unacceptable for me to reduce the number of signatures if there are this number of votes left, as I fully accept to reduce the number of signatures, but to increase the number of votes needed to make the decision, because we literally did not have a real referendum campaign. They consisted exclusively of whether a sufficient number of signatures would be collected and whether it would be allowed, the question allowed. And then, of course, in the situation of formal organisation of those who give an initiative to collect signatures and informal non-organization of those who may be opposers and the initiative, this first party is, in my opinion, one of the advantages that these amendments to the law will, or the adoption of a new law, be adjudicated. As a rule, the referendum was a means of pressure on the government either local or national. And he's usually used by the opposition to put some pressure on the hair. It began among other things with the signatures of the Labour Act where more than 700 or 800,000 signatures were collected in 2008 or '09. For years, and I am absolutely sure that at least half of those who have signed had no position on the Labour Law at all but expressed their position against the government. After that, there was also a referendum on the monetization of highways where I am also convinced that most did not want to pay more expensive or cheaper highways and did not know much about monetization but showed an attitude against the government, if the referendum on outsourcing as well as this referendum 67 is, 67 is too much. So it's too much. Therefore, it was also a means of political, day-to-day mutual accounting, and it is therefore good to regulate it in a way that the referendum initiative is not being misused in order to demonstrate the power of the majority over the minority, not politically but by all other criteria, in order to deny or reduce certain rights, whether it is the right of national minorities, the right of sexual minorities, the right of women to choose or any other right that actually wants to prohibit someone. In fact, it's paradoxical that a people's initiative is actually used to ban a part of the people, which I think is an entirely anti-national initiative, and as long as I have the opportunity to talk about it, I'll be against it with my voice, even if I'm accused of not being a democracy or anything else. I therefore believe that this law should be sent to another reading, that, in parallel with this, we should change or work on changing other acts, the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, and that then and on the matter of the referendum, we finally come to a level of boring European countries where referendums will indeed be called about things that will bring the state better, not worse. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61249	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Milanovic litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61250	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Bauk. I'll be clear on my point, so here's what we might be able to do, and I know in a manner that's not usually a policy practice, but answer yes or no. Are you in favour of making the Croatian voters known through a referendum on Croatia's entry into the Euro area?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61251	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61252	I am in favour of Croatia entering the Eurozone if the Constitution allows Croatia's voters to declare it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61253	Dear Representative Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61254	Honorable Parliamentary Representative Bauk. As a longstanding assembly, as minister with your experience, tell me whether it is a bit pretentious and in fact in a way significantly restrictive to put the DIP into office as a preliminary assessment of certain issues where it still takes part in the role of the Constitutional Court, which can therefore make a significant contribution in certain suggestions to our electoral body, political suggestions that it is not good to go out on this referendum and that the organisational committee is actually consterning, frustrating and putting it on the sideline track, and that it has not been decided by the measuring body of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61255	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61256	Thank you. Here while you were asking the question I also established contact with certain MPs from the ruling majority because I thought what you're saying wasn't in the law. So, the constitutionality of the issue is decided by the Constitutional Court, and ultimately, if the DIP does what you say, so I have to look at it, I have to admit that that's not how I didn't understand it, but if the DIP gives a preliminary negative opinion, and then the Constitutional Court finally has a positive opinion that motivates people to go out on such a referendum. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61257	Please don't get off the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61258	Meanwhile, there is enough time for this to be a media topic in media space that would then motivate people. Otherwise, I think it might be good to have this deadline for the delivery of the signatures small, but to give enough time to discuss the subject in public, to hold a referendum perhaps a year later after the collected signatures on the subject so that the subject is simply completely devoid of this issue of signature and to discuss the metric in... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61259	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61260	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Bauk did not show it well, so the DIP does not decide, he decides on the compliance of the issue with the law in part as clearly, unclearly and as far as voters are concerned, and not on the scale of the question is it not now important. I wanted to say that even today, the Constitutional Court, although the Constitution does not stipulate which topics can be questioned by the referendum, determines whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution, so when it comes to international agreements which have passed the procedure, they cannot be questioned in accordance with the Constitution, and then fundamental human rights, for example, economic policy, in terms of taxes, for example. raise the question of whether to abolish VAT, I think a significant number of voters would be collected, but then the state's functioning is at stake. Therefore, and without amendments to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court She can often decide that. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61261	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61262	Thank you. I know this constitutional court practice, I can't say that I was happy with it, but sometimes I was happy with their decisions on the subject, so from this kind of self-service, I take it as my right to choose what suits me. But my position is not only on this subject, but on the other hand, that the government in Croatia has a parliament, not courts, that the courts carry out what the Parliament brings, including the Constitutional Court. So he assesses the constitutionality and assesses whether something is in conformity with the Constitution or not, so if something is defined by the Constitution, it is much safer for the citizens than to consult the bang of the Constitutional Court because it requires certain research knowledge. Yes, the Constitutional Court has been there many times at the height of the task, sometimes it isn't, but now it's a matter of perception. And to quote Mr. Vladimir Seks, I learned something from him, he said that the right to remain is merely political will in the legal norm. Then let's shape Parliament's political will... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] The speakers speak at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61263	The Honorable representative, Dark Taritash, has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61264	Thank you very much. You were actually talking about form and content, about the form of a referendum that will and may also be implemented that should be regulated more clearly, more seriously that we do not have any obstacles, and the content is what we all like to discuss and which will always be the question. And in the end, you mentioned some boring European countries, so I'm going to refer, one boring state or city of Berlin had a referendum on the issue because the problem with real estate prices or renting apartments, and most of the citizens' will was to get into the expropriation of private apartments, it's not exactly like that, but that the city has to buy from those who do business, actually take apartments for rent, buy those apartments. And now the question is, now everyone is actually expecting the decision of some constitutional, their constitutional court that's a little bit different, whether it could have been the subject of a referendum at all. So we can compare ourselves in some situations with some boring European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61265	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61266	As far as I read about it, it was a consultation or advisory referendum, so the decision in the referendum is not binding on anyone. In that case... The government's indication of whether it has any direct support for citizens, some villains would say Berlin returned to the DDR after so many years and had nationalised, nationalised the apartments. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This may be, it may be a legitimate decision by the authorities if, of course, it has a constitutional basis for affecting the prices of renting apartments and being just, it was actually a kind of execution, in the end of the matter, a kind of expropriation that we both have for the roads and for these things. Therefore, they have estimated that the public interest in the housing is also such as to come, in which case there is an exemption to give a fair, just fee. But from the point of view of the referendum, it was an advisory referendum such as any council or government in Croatia can call.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61267	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. No need to repeat, but yet anyone who in any way in his life collected signatures, stood on the stand, engaged in such activities, knows how high the censorships of this law are in this bill. They are also at the state level by my humble court on the edge too high, and at the local level absolutely 20% is unsustainable and I think the minimum at which in the next final proposal of the law should be 10%. This is, of course, the issue of electronic voting that has already been very well argued here from this pay phone, there is no reason why if we do the census via the e-Citizen's e-Citizen's e-Citizens, I see no reason why the possibility of electronic voting is also used in the referendum, which would lead to the possibility that at the state level, we will remain the highest 10%. We all know that in Europe it's one of the highest censors, usually it's about one, two, three percent. Then we think that the problem of the referendum decision's legitimacy is still unresolved and because in the state referendum the majority of votes are decided regardless of the number of voters and regardless of the percentage of voters who have given support to a particular issue in relation to the total number of voters. In order to strengthen the legitimacy of the referendum decision, we propose to introduce a quorum for the validity of the referendum decision, and that means that the validity of the referendum decision would be regulated by the percentage of voters who supported the proposed issue, according to the type of referendum decision we propose different quorums, that is 50% plus one total number of voters for amendments to the constitution, then 35 plus, 35% plus one for changes to the organic laws and 25% plus one voter for the total number of amendments to the laws for local referendums and other issues. And the percentage could be determined according to the total number of voters in the voter list who can vote in a concrete referendum. Of course, for such amendments it is still necessary to initiate and amend the constitution, as well as to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. So, in this whole debate, it became quite clear that without amendments to the constitution, constitutional law and the Law on the financing of political activities, this referendum law would remain one less than a semi-resolved situation, and certainly would not reach those democratic principles and direct democracy so as to say which we should all strive for. Of course, in art. 15. We believe that it should be explicitly defined that the referendum cannot decide on human rights and the rights of smaller ones. We also think that this is important because there is not exactly one common idea about what it would be like to be a minority and how it should be protected in this country, as well as what human rights would be, so that should be reminded of it legally. Today I'm just as concerned, let's go all the way, I've wasted my time, okay. So we have some more, some remarks that we'd like to ask an article. 26, it is that the organisational committee is running a list of people who have collected signatures in certain places we believe that the number of volunteers is large, that this is, a great fluctuation, so we suggest that the erasure of this item and that only the organisational committee should be responsible for it. We also suggest that HS, the home working body, be obliged to present a referendum issue to invite both initiators and opponents of the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61269	We have a replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61270	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, here I am going to start by commenting on this latest proposal to delete this provision that says you need to keep track of who collects signatures on the spot. I don't think that's a bad provision, but I think the state should have control over who's been collecting the signatures because we're all aware of the fact that there's no political party and there's no candidate who, by chance, didn't have a non-existent person on his lists. And that's why, in order for this to never happen again, in order to prevent it from ever happening again, I am advocating the system of electronic or giving the opportunity to sign along this written path and collect electronically. If we were to introduce such a system then this 10% or 20% censorship was not a problem for us. Although I think that high census has some excuse because a referendum should to serve important things. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61271	The answer of the esteemed representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61272	Thank you. So, I absolutely agree with you, introducing an electronic vote at the referendums, and I don't think there should be any obstacles and I don't understand that it's already in the bill. I disagree with you that 20% is not too high for, regardless of the electronic vote for local referendums. I still think it's one too high a percentage for what can be a local topic. As far as volunteers are concerned, I believe from my experience that it is still better for this responsibility to be taken over by an organisational committee. As I've already said from, simply because of people fluctuating, because of a large number of volunteers that I'm not sure that everyone can properly control, and the organisational board takes responsibility for themselves and I think it's better that they keep doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61273	The next debate will be the respected representative of Mark Milanovic Litra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this proposal for a referendum law is a step forward. A limping step behind which a second leg pulls, yet a step forward. I find it extremely important to praise everything that is good, but also to criticize everything that is not. So let's start with what's good. The obligation of units of local self-government to determine and grant a clear number of places to collect signatures is certainly a positive shift in preventing politicians from carrying out their own will. Let's just remember that everything allowed itself to be Mayor of Rijeka Vojko Obersnel during the latest referendum initiatives "The Truth of Istanbul" and "The People Decisions". Mr. Obersnel has declared himself responsible and invited to decide whether a referendum issue is constitutional or not. He gave himself the right to deny our fellow citizens the opportunity to plead on a referendum initiative. And let us not forget the constitutional court's reaction to the lawlessness that it has assessed that his I say Orwelski decree does not constitute a harsh violation of the rules of democratic procedure and that it does not dodging or seriously violates the right of citizens to a referendum statement. General Sacic warned about these problems during the signing of the "Truth of Istanbul" initiative, so I can say that I am glad that you listened to it and put this provision in this bill. I also welcome the extension of the signing deadline from 15 to 30 days. I also find it a good idea for an observer to be careful not to reject valid signatures depending on the will of individuals from state institutions. This is a good idea whose implementation and implementation we have yet to see. It would be nice to live in a country where the state apparatus serves its people, but unfortunately we are condemned to Croatia according to the direction of HDZ and SDP that has never been the goal. In their system of values, the state apparatus has an advantage over citizens. Enough evidence is the level of economic and political freedoms in Croatia, and there is no need to talk about the demographic disaster and the national tragedy of evicting highly educated young families from our homeland. What is certainly not good about this bill and which does not contribute to a higher level of democracy and citizens' involvement is the left out electronic signature of the referendum initiative, but also the vote itself in the referendums through e-Citizens. My colleagues already mentioned it, so I'm going to skip this part. Croatian citizens expect and deserve that we here contribute to their easier and simple inclusion when it comes to deciding on the future of our country, and we must enable them to do so. The fact that since '96. For years, we have been waiting for the new Law on Referendum to talk enough about all governments of boredom and how much they care about the opinion and will of their citizens. It would be logical to conclude that this government is somehow different from everyone else and that this government is intended to obey the will of its people and to make policies in accordance with that will. But then we just need to remember our former minister and former secretary of state who, meanwhile, have been charged with serious corruption, who destroyed the referendums a few years ago. I therefore believe that this debate today is another one in a series of PR spins, it has been made clear that this government, led by Andrej Plenkovic, will not allow its people to declare whether they want to give up national monetary policy and Croatian currency in favour of introducing the EUR and pushing Croatia into an increasing federalisation of the EU in which I would say at the top of the bureaucratic food chain from Brussels, punish all those who think and have different policies from them. The statements we hear from members of the ruling party and their partners who, like parrots, repeat the words of the Prime Minister, we do not need a referendum. They do not need a referendum because they do not need an opinion and are not interested in the will of the Croatian people. They are self-sufficient and know everything for themselves, and as Andrej Plenkovic would say, they can do whatever they want. They can do whatever they want until the people rise up and say enough, and believe me, it will happen sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61275	The next debate will be the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61276	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a lot that's already been said today, and I'd like to brief my thoughts on this bill. In fact, in the previous referendums, we have all learned in fact that according to the existing law there were both certain gaps or shortcomings, and for this reason I believe that it is justified to adopt a new Law on Referendum and that this proposal actually sought to solve all the gaps that have been seen and the irregularities of the applicable law with this proposal. Of course, in improving the regulation of the referendum as the most direct form of people's decision on all political and political issues that they sought to make in advance, but we were also limited by constitutional regulation of the referendum as a form of declaration, as well as by the Constitutional Law. So we must be aware of all this and say what is already in front of the HDZ Club today, said the club president that this bill is certainly the best of what is possible under such circumstances. It is certain that with regard to the arrangements of the state referendum, there remains to hang in the air this 10% censorship, whether it is too high or not, but precisely because of the arrangement of this constitution, the question is whether we can at this point realistically consider it realistic to change it. Without, without changing the constitution, that's not possible. If that's all we're prepared to do, that's why we're going to change the constitution, that's what we're going to see. As for the special arrangements of the questions about the civil initiatives referendum, I think that there has been a major step forward in relation to the current law because a number of issues have been better arranged, the deadline for the signing is now 40 days and for the collection of signatures and for the handover of the same ones, which has so far not been sufficiently arranged, so there was essentially no prescribed deadline within which the collected signatures should be submitted. What is also significant is that the signatures and lists are handed over to the DIP as an independent body, the whole procedure is very precise. For the first time, the right of organisational committees is introduced, as well as the Committee of Opponents of the People's Initiative to observe the process of determining the number of signatures obtained and valid. The current law also does not have provisions on legal protection in the part of the People's Initiative procedure that precedes the decision to call a referendum. This draft law provides for legal protection against a high administrative court and allows for the submission of a complaint to the DIP because of any irregularities in the course of the proceedings. For the first time, it is also legal to observe the work of all bodies for the implementation of the referendum. The obligation to establish and assign a place to collect signatures without compensation has also been established, which I consider to be a positive step. With regard to local referendums, new rules have been laid down which I consider to be fairer than those currently in force. So far, it has been necessary for the referendum, the local referendum to come up with 50% of voters plus one, which is a pretty high percentage, and now this rule has been changed, and it is in fact necessary for 1/3 of the voter cast to vote on the referendum issue and I think that, in that part, I also agree with my colleague Bauk's debate that we still have to set certain rational, rational limits on the referendum as one tool expressing the will of the people in order for him to be justified. Because we also have regular elections where voters also choose the authority of both local and national, and the local referendum actually serves to promote those referendum issues that actually affect the jurisdiction of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61277	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61278	Thank you. So we agree as you know there has to be a certain dating quorum, but we think they should be different for different kinds of referendums. So it doesn't make sense that for the local referendum, we have a restriction on the outcome of 1/3 of voters enrolled in the register, and that we don't have that for all other kinds of referendums, so my question to you is why we are thus limiting the local referendum which, in our opinion, should be the most accessible and easy one because it solves those issues closest to the citizens, and we are not doing the same for example to change the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61279	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61280	Thank you very much. Well, I have also said in my opening statement that amending certain rules on the state referendum also requires amending the constitution and the constitutional law, so that we, this bill, in the context of what is possible to comply with both the current constitution and the law, propose that the proposal be legal. As for the local referendum, what has already been said today by our club, we also believe that this percentage that is in the 20% proposal for all units, for all local referendums may not be the best solution because units of local self-government are different sizes and then that percentage is not the same in some small unit where the 20% represents a small number in the City of Zagreb. And I think it's a good suggestion to introduce a certain ranking here. But I also think we can't let that percentage be very low because then they'll be on the team. small units that mean two families will be able to run [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a referendum question. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61281	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61282	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think it is also good to underline once again the importance that for the first time, for the first time, the Institute of Referendum Issues, which the DIP will be working on, and it will examine the formal legal compliance of the issue with the provisions of the law. But also the possibility of an indirect counterproposal and a direct counterproposal, and in such a way we can get back what citizens are, or this initiative and the question that they have raised without additional cost problems and so forth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61283	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61284	Thank you very much. So I agree with you, so it is certain that the referendum as a single form of democracy costs, as well as a local referendum for which the funds should be provided in the units, in the budgets of the local self-government units, as well as the state referendum. For this reason, there were also discussions here today about when to apply to verify the authorisation of the referendum issue. Whether, before the start of the signing process, not only for costs but also for the whole process, the citizens participate, and then under the current law, let's say the constitutionality of the referendum issue can be checked only after the process. So I think there's a reasonable reason why we should be able to figure out what's more opportunistic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61285	Thank you. The next one will be spoke by a respected representative, Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61286	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think the culture of the referendum can be reached overnight. This is something that must enter the mental code of the people who want to carry out this way let's say the highest form of democracy, which is, of course, the referendum initiatives, the issues and all that can be reflected in life whether it's a state referendum or a local referendum. We often mention the Swiss model and I agree, but apply the Swiss model overnight in Croatia I think it is absolutely impossible and that there is a lot to work on. This law shows me by what the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has been doing for the past few years, which is that he wants many things that have not been laid down by some laws, some laws we haven't changed since 2003, some since 2009, that we now want to raise them to a higher level and say ok we have an initial correct, not ideal, it's not perfect, but from that, we're starting from that. I'm coming from a small unit of local self-government, so I'm going to talk a little bit more about it, and it's started by the distinguished parliamentary representative Mrs. Bencic, I think that part needs to be changed. The municipality of Cviljana and the municipality do not know Chepin who also has 11-12 000 inhabitants in the same category. So it can't be that number, the number of signatures is equal to those two units of local self-government they're exactly the same but they're important, they're significantly different and they're significantly different. I think that in essence the referendum and all that the referendum as well in democracy brings we should practice on these small local self-governments because it often happens that certain local self-government leaders simply change and simply no one can do anything to them. And we're absolutely powerless here, and the state and the judiciary and all that, and they're still doing their will waiting possibly for some kind of election whether someone's going to replace them or not. And here I think there should be this first rock that we need to put in there, in that mosaic of ours, so that Croatia will reach those highest standards in 5 or 10 years when it comes to democracy. It's similar to my village football club Slavonac and the Dinamo Football Club are two same clubs, the same are citizens' associations and the other. How to put it in the same basket, it's absolutely, absolutely impossible. And I think that what I am here as a man who came here a year ago, and I've been interested in my whole life that Croatia is one about the borders, as far as the law is concerned, but Croatia is importantly different both in regional and geographical and in any other sense, and I think that Croatia must seek an ununited solution because it probably does not exist, but must seek solutions that are closest to what is needed, and these are citizens living on a specific, specific site. So of course I welcome what's being said today and maybe what's not good, and here's what I'm going to apostrophe. It's not good when HDZ doesn't accept something, then HDZ is arrogant, then there's nobody to respect, and we're most of us who can do what we can, and when we take the initiative of someone who comes from another political platform that's currently in opposition, and then we're called a trading party, then we're trading something, then it's some of our chips that we want to try something with. It is not good, I think that every debate in the Croatian Parliament must be built in such a way that part of the proposals that are really excessive and smart, so I don't know who it comes from, but they are good, they are good for Croatian citizens must be implemented if not in the first reading then in the second, and if not in the second, and then in the final proposal, the bill on which we will vote. I think that's the way we should go, I welcome everything the ministry does in this sense, all of you who have really done your best, and maybe you know this problem better than I do, here I am speaking from the position of a man who comes from little JLS, and I think this is going to be a good trigger and a driver to solve some problems that they haven't been able to solve so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61287	Here's a number of replicas, the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61288	Thank you. Well at first you said that nothing can be achieved overnight in terms of the culture of the referendum in Croatia, so that there are probably certain, certain restrictions. However, we must say that in these 30 years. Not exactly night, it is now I would say some morning, perhaps half a day because at the same time Slovenia is, for example, an independent state like us, the same time, so for example, for you to launch a referendum at national level, it takes 2% of the signatures of registered voters, 2, we have 10, with Slovenia having, how much, half less, half less residents than, than the Republic, slightly less than half. So, what I'm saying is that we really do now have a single regulatory framework that is, indeed, limiting or limiting the launch limit. referendum initiatives, but this won't lead to them either. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61289	Dear Representative Ivanovic. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61290	Yes, I understood, that when I said overnight I didn't, I didn't think it was a long dark, dark night until now than I thought it was a good, good start, but someone looked at what's been going on over the past 10 or more years and said let's do it, let's fix it, let's do it better and I think you're right there, that it might have been, be more and more we had an initiative than the referendum was carried out. But this censorship, I agree that 2% or 5%, but the people who are interested in solving some key things shouldn't be a 5% problem to him. I know that those signatures have to be collected, that those signatures have to be reviewed, the number isn't small, the 400,000 signatures are not at all, all of us who once bought any signatures know what it is, but I think this is a good, good start to a better end, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61291	Thank you, thank you very much. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61292	Thank you. My colleague Ivanovic, you have inspired me a little bit with your first sentence on the tradition of the referendum or so, so thanks to my memory, then Google helped me remember two referendums, November 14, 1982. 70% of Zagreb voted in a referendum for a 1.5% contribution in the next 5 years. to build a university hospital. And then they repeated it in 1987 and the self-delivery lasted until 1992, each citizen of the City of Zagreb singled out between 1,000 and 1,500 German marks then to build a university hospital. Therefore, there were traditions of calling a referendum, even in that less democratic system and they were, this one I don't think of all, were also a kind of useful and referenda, and by my deep judgment there are also these other useless or harmful or toxic and I'm about to limit their destructive and toxicity to the extent to which it is... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61293	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61294	Thank you very much. And I remember those, those times. A good idea, a good initiative brought people together and my Ladimirevci did not have 2% there were 4.4% of the self-sufficient contributions to building the school. It's okay. So it's not all about, in the legal context, something is in the very idea of a referendum that we want to call it, how people look at that thing at all, and I think it's important to determine how many people are willing to go out on a referendum, how many people are willing to sign for that referendum initiative, so I think all in all, here's half five.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61295	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61296	So, first of all, I'd like to say that it's clear. The point of this debate between who is collating with whom if someone's proposals are being respected is not in the very name of certain political actors in terms of the coalition but in emphasising the paradox that when new restrictions are needed then we find unification on the different sides of the political spectrum, in this case we are talking about limiting, additional difficulties in the referendums to earlier tests on the issue of referendums, and when something needs to be liberalised or really working on the benefit of our citizens, then no one wants to cooperate with, so that was the point of these calls today. And secondly, what I'm interested in is that we're talking about how to make it easier for citizens to approach referendums, how do you feel about going to a part of the local self-government unit and allowing them, for example, a referendum initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61297	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61298	I think that's good, and I think that the councils of local committees operating within certain JLS would be entitled to some kind of referendum on their micro, micro, why not. However, it may be another step, one more step. Apro according to this first thing you said, of course, this law will still pass e-consultation and a lot of smart people might even be legal experts, people who know a lot about constitutional law will pass, so perhaps one part of what you said will be part of this final story. So all that happened today is probably the first step in something we didn't have, but I think this law much, much better wants to bring and introduce the lowest form of democracy in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61299	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61300	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of mine you said the same thing. I must say that this is not possible according to the current proposal by the local self-government council to organise a referendum, but we must know that we also have regular elections for a representative of the local self-government council, and this bill also allows the majority of the local self-government councils of a particular local self-government unit to submit a proposal for holding or dissipating the referendum and voting on it by the representative body of that unit. So we need to know that the referendum is just one of the forms of citizens' decision-making. We have regular elections where citizens in a certain percentage are elected by the government, which in the mandate acts especially at local level, solves everything that is in their jurisdiction. And so the referendum, especially at the local level, is just one of the ways in which citizens are going to restart the direct initiative. some of that from their... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61301	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61302	I agree with the distinguished representative Jelkovac, of course, that the statutes and rules of the local self-government units allow certain places that are part of the units of local self-government to go to the referendum to have some kind of initiative. And of course, I hope the general public doesn't realize that by introducing a referendum, we want to change the electoral law, so we'll carry out a referendum on whether HDZ is good or bad, and then someone will say it's bad and then we won't act in power anymore. This is not the point of the referendum, it is known that the referendum initiatives, the referendum questions and why the referendum is being introduced at all. So every debate that's been held here makes sense to me, and of course, the competent ministry is that all of what we've said here will try to interpret or interpret into something that will benefit all of the citizens of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61303	The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61304	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow MPs and MPs. When someone asks me how I see the role of Parliamentarians and that form of political action at all, then she would say that all of us through the laws we adopt should talk about Croatia's vision of what Croatia should be. And as every house is built from the foundation, so is the state built from its constitution and then further elaborated through a series of laws and sublegal acts. And this debate as well as a whole series of others has once again raised the question of amending certain provisions of the Constitution because this debate and this law have again shown that some key issues are the great rock of controversy and stumbling. A whole series of representatives' clubs have come forward about those parts of this referendum law, which are generally well-arranged, well-resolved, they're putting in a step in relation to the situation we've had in view of the fact that since '96. We have not properly regulated the area of the referendum, but we are also all aware of the dangers lurking from the fact that, in accordance with the Constitution, the minimum number of citizens required to declare that the referendum proposal is explicitly supported by its vote. It also remains an eternal issue of what these topics are, which are referendum initiatives that should not be resolved by decision in that way. And it seems to me that this very fact that we are all talking about the need to amend the Constitution, and we are aware that the amendments to the Constitution will not go, talks about this one absurdity, about one delusion that the referendum will actually show the right will of the voters. To try this more vividly, how can we expect that the voter's will expressed in the referendum will indeed represent the true will of all our citizens if here in HS, we parliamentary representatives organised into political action through political parties in a slightly political writing and more trained cannot agree on several key amendments to the provisions of the Constitution. And it's not just these few questions about the referendum, it's a question of relations between the government, the president of the state, it's a whole series of other topics that in practice show that they're an eternal stumbling block. So that's why, and in this law, many MPs say that there's only one semi-product that sort of relieves pain, but it doesn't solve those inflammatory processes that come from somewhere beneath the roots. I'm sorry to hear that. The other two topics that I'd like to say more about is the structure of institutions, which is usually the subject of my work because I think we're going to be as successful as we're going to create meaningful, well-organized, functional, efficient and economic institutions. As far as the DIP is concerned, I'm going to commend this institution, I think it's organized well, it's well-designed, and it's implemented some information programs in accordance with those powers that it's given. It is one of the few institutions that has implemented what is an action plan with the Anti-Corruption Strategy and days in the field of work, but I believe that there are also issues and areas that can be better and stronger, and we do not need to stick to some old customs, so let it continue to be so because there is a habit, there is a practice, there is a practice so far, I think that we institutions should comply with what is logical and in accordance with how it should be, and not blindly sticking to the situation that has been so far. So on this trail until the next reading of the law, I would suggest that a few changes be made, one question is, who is the one who makes the rule that works out some procedural processes? I think it's a bad scratch that the regulations are passed by the Resolute Ministry, otherwise it's often put in those regulations what should be defined by law itself. In fact, this derivates the legislative role of HS, and what should be addressed by the legislative representative body is given into the hands of the executive authority. So to avoid it here, I think it's a much better solution to, for example, data on what contains records of these referendum initiatives to bring such a rule to the DIP itself because it's about trained professionals who do such things... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61305	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61306	Dear MPs, we have been through a lot here today to diversify the possible signings for this referendum, but I don't understand why we don't pick up those best practices from Europe. If someone mentioned it, I don't know who mentioned the Swiss model. There are two referendums in Switzerland, legal and constitutional. For a legislative referendum, 50,000 votes should be raised in 100 days. The constitutional vote needs 100,000 votes, but in 18 months, and we are limited so that the referendum is actually impossible to call. And with this law, we won't change it, if we want to change something, we have to move into new technological solutions so that we can collect signatures differently. However, we must mention, the state of resources has, the question is whether you want to run the resources to collect signatures for the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61307	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61308	For electronic... I've been in favour since 2019. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will point out that many countries around the world have implemented these solutions since the '90s. As for the collection of signatures, I really don't think the referendum should be easily approached and it's very difficult for me personally to convince that if we're not able to hire citizens to give their signature to call a referendum so that we can expect greater turnout. So I am in favour of making it easier to collect, and that would be, let's say, this electronic system and electronic voting, and the way citizens are engaged should actually show to what level citizens care for themselves that the referendum changes something. But another important thing, here's what I couldn't say in an individual debate. A colleague from HDZ said that we needed to develop a culture of referendum and mental code that is suitable for this direct form of democracy. I agree with that, but then I ask if we are able as a society to agree on the mandatory introduction of civic education in all JLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61309	Thank you, thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61310	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said at the end of your debate that in fact the provisions that are prescribed that the regulation will resolve certain actions and the jurisdiction of the assembly. I cannot agree with you here, namely this bill is really prescribed who is all involved in the procedure and the referendum process, which are the competences of these bodies, in which the referendum is implemented, so the regulation will determine only certain technical matters, technical implementation matters as is usual to be dealt with by the rules, and everything that was necessary to determine by law as a general regulation is defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61311	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61312	Well, that's your point of view, my view is that such a technical regulation that requires expertise in the implementation of election processes can better design the DIP itself, and if, just as the regulatory supervisory authority in charge of this area, we do not trust, we can add that it gives HS its consent to such a rule. And about how common the practice of solving a lot of rules is, here we can also see, for example, the programme of reconstruction measures. When we passed the Rehabilitation Act, I said that what is intended to be written in the Renewal Programme should be well defined in the law in order to see whether there is at all a state vision, direction, goal, direction and renewal, the practice has shown that in fact this mechanism of transposition, the adoption of regulations and other implementing acts on executive power is only one mechanism of hiding from the eyes of the public in which the way and in whose interest individual decisions and individual processes are made or hidden ignorance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61313	Thank you very much. We now move to the final presentations of the representatives' clubs and will first be the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, and will speak to the respected representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61314	Thank you. Thus, the proposal for this law in Art. 15. it is said that the referendum issue must be in line with the legal system as a whole and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. However, when it comes to the referendum initiative for amending the law, there is no mandatory procedure for verifying the constitutionality of the issue, but the assembly may, if it so wishes or so, if there is the will of the majority in the assembly. We see this as particularly problematic from the aspect of the protection of human rights and rights and national minorities and all other social minorities, but also those who have less social power in this society, which are defined in Chapter 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the logic of constitutional protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms is that they are protected by the constitution as fundamental and highest in the hierarchy by legal document in the Republic of Croatia against arbitration or the abolition of those rights at some point in time by the will of the current majority. So even if the law limits any right or freedom for citizens in a way that is disproportionate, the Constitutional Court would have to abolish such a provision in the constitutional process. The Constitutional Court said that potential referendum issues must not differ from the constitutional principles of equality and equality of all citizens with special protection of human rights. So, we believe that any referendum initiative aimed at amending the law or constitution should go to the constitutionality of the issue, and in particular the one in Chapter 3 of the Constitution for which it would be worth considering under what conditions of turnout, turnout can be changed by a referendum. I'm going to give you an example because I can see that there are disputes about it. For example, Art. The 56th Constitution says that the longest working time is determined by law. We can imagine a referendum initiative of certain stakeholders asking for the longest working time to be no longer defined by law than the subject of a contract on the work and negotiation of employers and workers, right? There are stakeholders and there have already been initiatives to remove the restrictions on working hours from the Labour Act. It's not impossible to imagine. Now let's imagine the referendum on which 20% of citizens come out and that passes and thus regulates the Labour Act and directly violates the article. 56. The Constitution, it directly violates him. What's the procedure then? Okay, the Constitutional Court may subsequently carry out an assessment of the constitutionality of that regulation. However, when did this referendum issue that passed in the referendum and the amendments to the law from the moment to the moment when the Constitutional Court adopted a constitutional assessment of what happens to the rights of all those workers who, for example, have been extended far or have not been regulated? What happens to their salaries, what happens to their rights? Will he ever make it up to them? They won't, because at that time the law was different, and that time would pass. So when we talk about why it is important that there is an assessment of the constitutionality of the issue and an assessment of the constitutionality of the referendum issue, we are talking about preventing, in fact, situations which, during a certain time period, will put our citizens or part of our citizens, for example, workers in the private sector, in the position of second-class citizens. So our club asks that this law, or parallel to this law, go into amendments to the Constitution and reduce the number of signatures needed to launch referendum initiatives at all levels to 5% because we believe that this launch must be easier. The current framework for the launch of the referendum initiative is more restrictive than the practices of different EU countries than Italy, Slovenia, etc., in Italy 1%, for example. However, we are also asking for a mandatory examination of the constitutionality of the constitutional issue by the Constitutional Court. So, on the one hand, let's make it easier to launch the initiative, but let's guarantee in advance that the referendum issues are in line with the Constitution. We also ask that, in the process of assessing the legality of the issue of the local referendum, a presummation of legality is specified if the ministry does not respond within 60 days and that a special accelerated procedure within which they must assess is prescribed by the High Court of Justice The legality of the local referendum issue. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61315	The next final on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61316	I'm going to pick up where my colleague Bencic left off, and I'm going to start with the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court. So democracy exists to the extent that institutions are able to promote and protect it and this debate has shown that some issues and some issues of different clubs are agreed on, and some of them have certain doubts and, among other things, about the censorship needed to launch the referendum initiative. And that is why sometimes when we talk about solutions that exist in other countries is not necessarily and does not mean that it would make good solutions for us because we still have our children's democratic diseases, and one of them is also the way the Constitutional Court's work works and practice so far. It would actually be ideal if we could go in this direction 5% to launch a referendum initiative, but then mandatory constitutional control of the constitutionality of the referendum issue by the Constitutional Court if we could be calm and trust in the Constitutional Court that all their decisions and their conclusions are aimed at protecting constitutional freedoms and the rights of our citizens, and not sometimes protecting the current political interests and the daily political needs of the political party in power and that should be taken into account. Yes, indeed everything comes from both political culture and preparedness for dialogue and political responsibility and raising some standard of objectivity in the process of political communication, but unfortunately that is not the case, and we are aware of how judges of the constitutional court are elected, it was still today. Therefore, it is indeed a political agreement to political trade that does not always lead to the fact that high-level lawyers dedicated to the protection of constitutional rights are elected to such places and to such positions, so perhaps it would not be a good solution. What would be a good solution is that someone, on behalf of the promoter, listens well to what the MPs said during the day, and we all agree more or less, so if since 2015. The HDZ as a political party currently in power is talking about digitisation and if it has a digitalisation process more or less embedded in its political programmes, and during this term, it has installed these concepts into a whole series of national strategic documents, starting with the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, then it would be good to show in a very concrete example how this digitalisation works in practice, especially when this is not about such a big technical paper. One comparative analysis of those systems that I have been saying since the 1990s can be made with solutions that have been resolved, and thus show how much debates really make sense, to the extent that we listen to each other, we respect the arguments and we look for solutions that contribute to the protection of the rights and interests of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61317	The next club of representatives is finally on behalf of the Mosta, according to the respected representative Marija Selak Raspoudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61318	Before I specifically state what our demands are for this first reading of the referendum law, I must refer to what my colleague Bencic said. So to simplify here it is said to try to imagine a situation where I will simplify myself, the evil employers will unite to discuss a referendum that will bring work rights and this referendum in Croatia will succeed, and then the poor workers will find themselves on the road and will not be able to work etc. First of all, this situation is unimaginable, secondly, Croatia, where most employers, and the minority of that working class, forgive it, a paradise on earth as well as any other country. So what are we talking about? Do you know where we live? So, what's the point? In addition to this attempt to target some evil capitalism that would like to document labour rights here through referendum initiatives with an example that is completely unimaginable to succeed in practice because most Croats are workers, not employers. And there are no evil employers there to make life difficult for workers, but they most often barely survive in Croatia, please face our reality. He's trying to cover up something else, and because of that example, I find it not only completely missed, not to say tragic, but also dangerous. Something else is clouding, so there is a strong trend that we could follow all day in this debate in the Croatian Parliament to limit the possibility of our citizens to organise referendum initiatives and ask referendum questions and that is what is infuriating. And what my colleague Bencic actually wanted to say, but she didn't say because now she's performing a new apolitical thing is that we think that the citizens of some bogeyman whose only goal is the focus of life, not their existential problems that most of us would assume, but that human rights and minority rights are dominating, and if we don't now rush that we don't ban them, here's the line everyone's waiting to organize initiatives to tomorrow step on those same minorities and everything else. However, it is obvious that someone dares not say a word after this pay phone, so he hides himself among the amazing examples in which employers will see the referendum initiatives asphyxiate labour rights, so please do not make us laugh. Tell me what hurts you, say that you think that the people of the bogeyman who are here are waiting and squatting that we pass this law so that he can rush to destroy minorities in Croatia, and then we'll talk without gloves about what bothers him and what anyone thinks and expects of the people and democracy as such. On the contrary, our intentions are completely different, we believe that we are chosen from a people like those who have obeyed the system of democracy because in the end we act in such a function, we want even more peoples in decision-making. In that sense, our demands are next and now I will clearly repeat them, the possibility of electronic censusing, if we could now for the census, don't mess with us all of Europe's money for digitisation so that it can't be used in the elections and also in the referendum initiatives. Too high a threshold, this is a unique opportunity to regain the need to change the Constitution and bring down the threshold and finally have the opportunity to open the referendum more easily. For locals, we can immediately rule here and it is necessary to reduce this pointless and incomprehensible 20% threshold and we need to go to 5% or we may be able to think about the model depending on the size of the unit, but this certainly cannot remain what the HDZ colleagues agreed with on our initiative and I thank them for that. Then extend the deadline for preparing the signature for surrender, the anti-referendum committee should collect at least 5% of the signatures to be put at the same table with the referendum that collected 10%. So someone can't just walk away from it, then everyone should have the same legitimacy if they want to fight for their rights. Someone can't have to collect anything, and someone has to collect everything. We can consider enabling more than two questions and erasing that local self-government determines where to collect. To determine that signatures can be collected anywhere in the Republic of Croatia and to simplify the procedure. Again, the people are not the boogeyman, we believe in the people who have chosen us, and have the courage to enable them. that more often and easier to declare. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61319	Now, finally, on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61320	Okay, let's try not to capitalize our seat by exploiting the people at all levels, but then standing next to the people at once is about the referendum. First, I'm going to answer that charge of the Mosto that... in the direction of liberalisation of the referendum and that there is now a word of Toboj to some anti-referendum coalition of HDZ, RF, SDSS, here is now a colleague who has said she is glad that something agrees with the bridge, but it is not a coalition. But if, by chance, in one situation, we agree, it's a coalition. So let's repeat once again and now it's limited, many things are limited so one of the things that is limited is that on the referendum issue the Constitutional Court can determine, so the Constitutional Court can give its opinion on the referendum issue. I will repeat once again, the only proposal that HDZ has so spectacularly accepted from the RF is that this constitutional issue is a matter of constitutionality of the referendum issue to be asked before the signing begins. So instead of 300,000 people signing, being disappointed and then not being able to carry out this referendum, better to know at the beginning, and not at all fetish, I think the Constitutional Court is just trying to lay down some rules that would be the same for all, not that things end up in some political will. I would be genuinely interested in how would the Bridge respond to the RF referendum initiative to annul conversion and privatisation? How would the Bridge respond, and would you then ask for a constitutional check if someone asked to abolish private property? I think the bridge would be the first to scream for a constitutional check, it's not constitutional. So we're trying to agree on some rules, and that means that I'm also saying an example that's not realistic some employers are going to join together, but this is a real example if you're just calling on the people, why don't we say let's stop conversion and privatisation, why don't we just have a referendum question right now? So what we asked further is that the HDZ has not been accepted, so it's not about the coalition, that it limits the time when the Constitutional Court can give that answer, because theoretically it means the Constitutional Court can not answer that question for months, years, so it must be limited until the Constitutional Court can answer that question, so we are just limiting the possibility of the Constitutional Court or the will of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the question to ask about something by the Constitution of a constitutional check, and in some other case not to ask for a constitutional check, is also a matter of arbitration, so it should be decided whether a constitutionality check or not is required. So these are some three of our demands that we have set along with those that many have said, which is that we must reduce the percentage of the vote, especially for local referendums because 20% is too much. So local democracy at local level is crucial, especially in the decision-making of infrastructure projects where the mayor and the ruling party decides today exclusively for them, and infrastructure projects such as, I don't know, building a sports hall will decide what the lives of generations will look like to pay for these loans. Why only one party would have one actually mayor who had 15% of the vote why it would be possible to decide, why not ask people who live in the area, especially what schools, kindergartens, homes of health are something that people can not only decide about but can also know what they need and what matters to them. So when we talk about the referendum and the referendum law, we can't take things that suit us, throw away things that aren't good for us, and then I mean really juggling that we're chosen from the people. I think that's also let's be honest and open with the right particular case because it's clear that their referendum issues are going towards limiting minority rights and that this constitution is defined as something that is not possible to implement, so the minorities are there to maintain themselves or to ensure their rights. In some ways, the agreement about protecting minorities is a democratic agreement that must really have some kind of framework, and when we talk about all possible issues, when some are hiding behind the people, they forget to mention that they don't care, that in all other issues, workers stay exploited to be exploited, but that we must limit the rights of minorities. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61321	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative Selak Raspoudic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61322	Art. The 238th demeaning of parliamentary MPs, however wrongly you have told colleagues Peović you have our full support, you are free to launch as many referendum initiatives as you want with any questions you want. Do we want this to be called Communist Croatia? Okay, let's see how much support you get. If we want to, whatever you want to do every day to deal with such topics and everything else, we are there for you and we are completely open to you, and the people will tell you what they think about your initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61323	Although this is completely irrelevant, of course, it was a replica and relevant because we are at the end of the debate I still have to give you the foundation of the article. 240th century, 2nd century, a reminder, taking away a word until the end of the debate on this subject. And now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I find this debate interesting during the afternoon, I would say that it reminds me of the conflict on the left between the Bridge and the RF, resisting one and the other to prove who is the larger left, I think that my colleague Rasudić was more convincing in the arguments that the Bridge is the right contemplative left, and here I congratulate her on that. As regards the law itself or the doubts raised in this debate on the possibility of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia having a decision solely at the request of HS whether a single referendum question is in accordance with the Constitution or not. I have already said this, I will repeat, it is contained and in the current provisions of the Croatian Constitution, however, you are wrong, so the Constitutional Law on the Constitution of the Court of Justice article... it is defined to me that a period of 30 days has been defined, so the deadline within which the Constitutional Court, at the request of the Assembly, must be demonstrated if the conditions have been obtained, and the conditions have been obtained when the HS established that a national initiative, a civil initiative, a referendum initiative has collected a sufficient number of votes or signatures. 10% of the electoral body in the Republic of Croatia and that is not disputed. What today can only be a matter of dispute when we mention the possibility of determining whether a single referendum issue is in accordance with the Constitution or not, whether a sufficient number of hands will be acquired here in HS to enter into amendments to the Constitution or better say in an amendment to the Constitutional Court's constitutional law to determine how it is possible to evaluate this before the 10% signature of all voters in the Republic of Croatia is collected. Therefore, there is no dispute, and here in the HDZ, I will also confirm this, we think that it would be good to have such a provision, but we must not be slaves, and this procedure, in a way that we stop with the referendum law and that for the next 3 years, 4 years unless I agree to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court still suffers this regulation which, the legislative regulation which defines and determines the procedure for calling the referendums in the Republic of Croatia because of our inability to agree, because we will eventually not agree whether or not to amend the Constitutional Law or the Constitution will continue to make it difficult for citizens to access the referendum initiatives on the one hand, and on the other hand, there will be many questionnaires that are now when it comes to check the list, etc., the way of collecting the signatures, in which case the people's initiatives are obliged to submit to the Croatian list in question. Therefore, we must refer there and that is what is crucial in this law is on one side of the will, the political will was enough or not to move towards amending the Constitution and the constitutional law on the one hand or on the other side of the adoption of this law, and when this political will is established, arrangements at the level of all important actors in Croatia, and above all here in the assembly then it is very simple to bring the referendum into line with this by force. But until that happens, we have no reason, we have no right to continue to suffer criticism that the referendum legislation is undernourished, that it prevents and is not a positive wind in the back of the referendum initiatives, or a direct declaration of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. And I think if that's not clear from this debate today, the pillar, the attitude of the HDZ Representatives Club will never be clear again. So we are open to debate but we will not allow what we cannot possibly agree to suffer is what we think we are obliged to do to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is that they have the right to simply consume their constitutional right to plead directly at the referendum. And for that, I support it like this. This, this is the government's position, and I call on the government to consider our proposals until the next, for the second, for the second, this second, second reading. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61325	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. And now that we've been working on one 10 minute break for a long time, I'll see you in 17 and 15 minutes. [[It's 1704 hours.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 17:15 A.M.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, the following point is: - Selection, appointments and resolutions, and I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appoints and Administrative Affairs, Nada Murganic, to explain the proposals for decisions, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61364	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of Art. Paragraphs 105, 1 and 3. 161th and 1st and Article 1st respectively. 273. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the HS submit several proposals for decisions on resolutions and appointments, with two meetings held on 22 September, a decision on the resolution of the Vice Governor of the CNB is proposed. The Vice Governor of the CNB, the Master of Martina Drvar, is hereby dismissed on the basis of a basic request from the date of 1 October 1921. The proposal for a decision on the selection and termination of the term of office of a member of the Justice Committee HS is elected by Dr Ivana Kekin on 15 September 2021. The duty of member of the HS Justice Committee has ceased to be the master's master, Rada Boric, for his term of office. The proposal for a decision on the selection and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the HS is selected by Dr Ivana Kekin. On September 15, 2021. A member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, HS, has stopped acting as a magistrate, Rada Boric, for his term of office. The proposal for a decision on the selection and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of HS, as a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, is also selected by Dr Ivana Kekin. On September 15th 2021, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, HS, stopped acting as a magistrate, Nada Boric, for his term of office. And a proposal for a decision on the appointment and termination of the term of office of the deputy member of the EU delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The deputy of that delegation is elected Dr. Ivana Kekin. On September 15th, the post ended due to the resignation of the parliamentary mandate by Master Rada Boric, and these decisions will be published in the National Journal and will take effect on the day of its adoption. The meeting of the Committee on 29 September adopted a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the election of a member of the Committee on the Legislatives of the HS. A member of the HS Legislative Committee Krešimir Akcar is hereby authorised, but Majda Buric is elected as a member of the Committee on Legislatives. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the HS. Andro Krstulović Opara is elected as a member of the board since 15 September 2021. The mandate of the member of the European Affairs Committee has ceased to be held by Danica Baricevic because of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. The proposal for a decision on the election of a member and the termination of the mandate of the foreign policy committee member HS is being chosen by Andro Krstulović Opar, in the wake of the end of the parliamentary term, Danica Baricevic. And a proposal for a decision on the election and termination of the term of office of the member of the Committee on Tourism HS. Majda Buric is elected as a member of the committee since September 15th 2021. Danica Baricevic stopped acting as a member of the committee because of the termination of the parliamentary term of office. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of HS. A member to this committee, Krešimir Akcar, is dismissed, and Andro Krstulović Opera is elected as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media HS. A member of the Board of Directors Maja Grba Bujević is hereby dismissed, and an HS selects Andro Krstulović Opera as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. And a proposal for a decision on the appointment and termination of the deputy member of the HS delegation in the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly. Nikolina Baradic, acting as the deputy member of the delegation, was elected to act on September 15th, '21st. Danica Baricevic for stopping the parliamentary term. All these decisions will be published in the National Journal, and will take effect on the day of adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-30-0.u61365	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate, no one's answering, I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on it all when the conditions come to pass.
